i-d35129822bd431c1-0	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats have asked for this debate, because we think it is very important to discuss this. It has now been a while since these fires, the biggest we have had in modern times, ravaged. The question we need to ask ourselves is how we can get better. The first thing I want to do is to thank all those who made great efforts. But we must look at how best we use state resources, and the question I would like to put to Minister of Justice and Home Affairs Morgan Johansson is why nobody is in charge of state helicopters in the event of a crisis or disaster. Shouldn't it be a task for MSB to take that responsibility? In Italy, for example, there is even one person in charge. Isn't it important to have it arranged? Do we not have to have a system that works both in peace and crisis but also in war? That is why it is so important that we put this back. You transferred MSB to the Justice Department. The Swedish Armed Forces and MSB must be under the same department, and MSB must gain muscle. Now it is an organisation that thinks and has press conferences, but it must get the authority to coordinate and also take command of the resources we have. It's important in a crisis like this. It's better to send four helicopters and then be able to send two home. Otherwise, the fire will grow. The Christian Democrats want to give back the task to the Swedish Armed Forces to help in this type of disaster. What does the Minister of Justice say about this?
i-d35129822bd431c1-4	Madam President, I would like Summer 2018 became extreme in many ways. We Swedes are used to our summers raining away. This time it was just the opposite. We experienced the warmest and driest summer in at least 260 years, since the measurements began in 1756. It was warmer than ever, it was drier than ever, it was more long-lasting than ever, and it was in larger areas of our country than ever – practically all over the country. One day the temperature was 25 degrees on top of Kebnekaise. Now Sydtoppen has melted so much that it is actually the North summit that is highest. It happened during the summer. That tells us a little about the exceptional summer we had. This led to extreme fire risk across the country. During this summer, rescue services have faced their most difficult task ever. We are talking about hundreds of forest and grass fires that have been handled by emergency services this summer. The three largest fire areas were located in Gävleborg, Dalarna and Jämtland. In total, over 25 000 hectares of forest have been burned. Here the emergency services met a situation that was actually considerably more difficult than the one in Västmanland in 2014. We shall, of course, evaluate all the efforts made. The government has appointed a special investigator, Jan-Åke-Åke Björklund, to do so. But the general picture is probably the one to face the most difficult forest fires ever passed the task of Swedish society. We did what we always do when Sweden faced difficult tasks: we joined forces, and we solved this together. When the worst happens, society must be strong, and it was society during this summer. The rescue service was, of course, the base of hundreds of firemen and women who pulled the heaviest load. Many of them interrupted their holidays to help. MSB stepped forward and took on a management responsibility that had never been done before. The county administrative boards contributed to coordination and management. Trafikverket went in with its off-road vehicles. The Coast Guard contributed their planes. The defense contributed with their helicopters and with the Home Guard. The police maintained order and kept curious. And so there are all these thousands of volunteers – the voluntary defence organisations and the voluntary fire aircraft, but also other volunteers, coordinated by the Red Cross. Without the outstanding work of all these people, this could well have ended in a great tragedy. It is enough to look at California or Greece to understand what tremendous forces are in motion when a forest burns and how extremely unpredictable it is when you end up in these situations. So 25 000 hectares burned. Great economic values have been wasted, but no people lost their lives or were seriously injured during the July fires – and no people were left homeless. It was possible to call in the fires, and it was possible to prevent further spread. Most of this job we did ourselves, and all the Swedish staff who worked this summer should have a huge thank you for that. You did an outstanding job in the summer to do this. But we also got help from outside with aircraft, helicopters, rescue personnel and vehicles from France, Italy, Portugal, Poland, Germany, Norway, Finland, Denmark and Lithuania. In fact, Turkey was also on its way with an aircraft. It was just in the final stages, so that aircraft was not needed, but they were also prepared to stand up when needed. I would therefore like to express my thanks to those countries as well. You were there when Sweden needed it. This is how Nordic and European cooperation should work. When other countries need help, Sweden stands up, as we have done in the Mediterranean, for example, during the refugee crisis with aircraft and boats from our coastguard, and when we need help, other countries stand up for us. That is how European solidarity really works. Now, of course, the afterwork is taking place. The affected municipalities and the voluntary organisations that worked should be reimbursed for their costs. It should not be over the elderly care or childcare of municipalities that they suffered the fires during the summer. Then, of course, it is a good thing, extremely good, that we have so strong public finances that we can now easily find the resources that are needed. We have set aside SEK 300 million more to solve that task. Strong public finances are perhaps the most important emergency preparedness you can have at the bottom. But we must also equip Sweden for more extremes. Then it is a question of buying in equipment such as hose fittings and vehicles. It is about training more firefighters – we also need to expand that part – and about strengthening airborne support in the fight against fire. All of this MSB has been tasked with developing the basis for, and we are prepared to deploy the resources we need so that we can already next summer have a stronger – even stronger – preparedness. It's really needed. Climate change is not a fantasy, as some seem to believe. It is happening here and now, and Sweden must continue to be a strong force in the world to reduce global warming and emissions. But we must also equip ourselves for a future in which we can face more years of extreme weather as we did last summer.
i-d35129822bd431c1-13	Madam President, I would like There have been many forest fires in the summer, many of which have been very dramatic and have had an extent that has made the fight against fire demanding and that the consequences, both overall and for many individuals, have been great. But it will take time to review the costs and see the effects fully. Many who have struggled in the forests or suffered, directly or indirectly, from what has happened have not yet processed and landed in their experiences. Firemen, volunteers, and people who left homes testify to dramatic events and a kind of unreality. A representative of the forest owners I met in Midnorrland also spoke about the need for psychological and social support. Many who have received their pension insurance in the form of forest wells or have seen their home or a pasture wall burn down feel terribly sick and need help. Although we cannot see the whole picture today, we can draw some conclusions. After all, we also have the report of the Civil Protection Investigation. Together with the other alliance parties, the Moderates have presented a ten-point programme of things that we think are obvious and self-evident and that we can already see. I will come back to this. Now is also the time to collect experiences and views at all levels and all directions. Such work is under way, and it is good that the government has also appointed an investigator. Unlike how the government handled the investigation that was set up after the Westmanland fire in 2014, I can guarantee that at least we Moderates, if we have influence, even after a change of government will ensure that the investigation has to complete its work. It is important to gather experiences and build on them in order to make society more robust. In recent weeks, I have met with emergency services, volunteers and many others in different parts of the country. The overall conclusion they draw is, I think, that most did what they could, but coordination and management leave much to be desired. In many places they were not prepared. No one considered themselves to have the lead shirt, and it was difficult to speak initially with, for example, the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness. Evacuations haven't been trained in a long time in this country. The evacuations went well, but then people were left in despair for days without information about the situation or help to deal with practical problems. The volume of local fire-fighting resources varies, but everyone seems to agree that forest fires are combated most effectively from the air. To intervene quickly is necessary; otherwise forest fires are growing, and they are very sneaky. The help we received from other countries was of great importance, and we are grateful for it. But we have a homework to do: how do we gather together the country's ability to fight fires by air, and how do we strengthen it? The Moderates and the Alliance believe that there is a need for an investment in national air fire-fighting capabilities. But these are complex issues. Just take the issue of aviation fuel when the forests burn. In ten days, Sveg airport spent four years on aviation fuel. It wasn't easy to get the fuel out. Thanks to their own old tanker they had borrowed resources that they picked up to get their hands on and decisive action by individuals within the Swedish Armed Forces, the plan was able to do its job. Otherwise they wouldn't have anything to lift with. But especially the Italian planes that took over the fires used one third of their time to return to Örebro for the pilots to sleep. It is actually possible to arrange both refuelling possibilities and other things more efficiently than that, and we must plan for this in the future. There is also a need for better management and coordination in the fight against fires. I have asked the Minister some questions, and I have noticed that there is a lot of talk about the responsibilities of the municipalities. I agree with that, but it is also a matter of coordinating work at national level. This must be improved, and that is the government's task. We need a crisis management system worth the name in Rosenbad. MSB does a lot that is good but still lacks muscle and was quite miserable for a while. Guidelines were issued, but there is no mandate to require others to take certain measures. This is a concern. So I think it is time for the government to address these national issues. On Sunday, volunteer forces in Kårböle organise a celebration of the efforts. The village is still there, and they are very happy about it. At the end of September, after the moose hunt, the same is arranged on Storön in Sveg. There will certainly be activities in many places to enjoy the fact that things actually went reasonably well. Without the voluntary efforts, the forest fires would have been worse. In Härjedalen alone 900 people heard from them, and 400 came to participate in the efforts in different ways. It's amazing! Now we have to take advantage of the commitment – recruit more to volunteer resource groups, to the Home Guard and as part-time firefighters. I note that the government wants more training places, but the problem is that part-time firefighters do not stay on duty. The compensation, the emergency services and much more work too badly. We, too, in Parliament, must deal with this.
i-d35129822bd431c1-25	Madam President, I would like Much has been said here about the chaos of the last fire. I'd like to go back a little bit and discuss how things have turned out this way. How did we get there? There are a number of investigations, and new investigations continue to be sought. There are already very many that can be used, such as the 2007 gluat investigation. It established that we are moving towards a drier climate. It was estimated that our fire-fighting capabilities are small. This is the large pr oblem that was found in 2007 in the gluate investigation. Then what happened? Nothing. Well, the fire plane was abolished – you know, those who watch if there is a fire somewhere – between 2002 and 2007. These are therefore a series of decisions which do not take account of existing investigations. This is a consequence of the whole thing. Among other things, it writes that the likelihood of forest fires will increase, and so the investigation is set aside and the fire aircraft is closed down. They sell out the Helicopter 4 system, which was an excellent way to fight fires and save people. The helicopter system is being sent for 13.5 million; it is valued at between 600 and 900 million. These will be the consequences when nothing is done about the investigations. Now that one calls again for investigations, one must use what already exists. There are piles of investigations. This was done under Reinfeldt's first and second governments, and the current government has access to all of this. The only people who have paid attention to this are, I think, the editorial pages, who write about it, and to some extent Web TV. You can find some other articles about this, but otherwise it is quite quiet. The 2008 Helicopter Investigation is also the basis for decisions later on to take an oath on this. In other words, the investigation was in place and decided to develop a helicopter investigation and sell the best we have for firefighting. I can't believe it! Then the Moderates made a proposal in 2007 to reintroduce the fire aircraft. You could say that was good. This was then done to some extent, but the economy is missing. When you look at this you could say that the Moderates were at least about finding the fires, but they did not want to buy equipment to extinguish them. Conversely, it can be said that the Social Democrats do not want to know if there is a fire– they removed the fire aircraft. Throughout this period, the so-called green parties were involved, during Reinfeldt's first and second governments and during the present one. What have they achieved to safeguard this environment? What you have achieved is really an intellectual fire street, nothing else. What happened then, after the sale of the helicopters in 2012? Well, then the fire came in 2014. It was chaos. I'll get back to the management conditions. As far as the role of MSB is concerned, I have said many times in this House: stop working together! Someone has to coordinate their activities. No, it won't help. What measures do we need? What we are proposing to do is to come back to later in my other speeches. Aud Sjökvist was appointed as investigator. What did you do? The directives were changed to her. Of course, she would not highlight consequences and measures. So they moved the investigation to MSB – it is said that it was for economic reasons; I don't know. But it got a lot more expensive. Where did the conclusions of that investigation go? It was tasked that lessons for the future should be evident from the investigation. Where did they go? When has this been dealt with? We must take this story with us. We need to look in the rear-view mirror and see what we, or you, did wrong. We need to learn from it and come up with an action plan – I will come back to it – to correct this now. It is extremely important that this should happen. The latest fire in 2018 I will return to. It was a chaos which meant that it took 12 or 13 days before Morgan Johansson found out that the delegation clause could be used in the accident protection law. It enables the government to redeploy resources and change obedience conditions. There were 12 or 13 days of uncontrolled fires throughout the country before the government found out that this law actually exists. This must also be highlighted in order to understand the complexity here. Then all the firemen and volunteers have done an amazing job. I fully share that view.
i-d35129822bd431c1-40	Madam President, I would like This summer has in many ways been extreme. It has been extremely high temperatures, extremely high fire risk and extreme drought. Not only Sweden but the entire northern hemisphere has experienced heat records and fires. Over the past three years, everyone, globally, was the warmest measured ever, although Sweden was not affected by extreme heat all years. The heat wave was mainly due to the blockage of the weakened jet current, which can be linked to climate change and faster warming and melting of the Arctic. Even now we are seeing the consequences of a degree of warming. Now we must do everything we can to prevent extreme weather from becoming normal, but we also need to equip society for a future with a changed climate. We need a strong climate policy. We need to reverse developments and reduce emissions in order to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. It's not too late, but we can't wait. Temperatures have been above normal for 400 months in a row. Then it won't hold back the ambition. Then it is not possible to say that someone else should do it, somewhere else and any other time. Climate change is now taking place, and then there is political responsibility. Then it is not possible to cut the environmental and climate budget, as the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats want, to go to elections to abolish air tax or to want to reduce diesel tax. It's like pouring gasoline on the fires instead of putting them out. We know that the extreme summer of 2018 will hardly be a one-off event. Climate scientists throughout the world can testify to this. Humanity needs to prepare for the consequences of a warmer climate, while increasing efforts to reduce emissions. This year alone, the heat records have replaced each other in countries and areas around the world: Japan, New Zealand, Canada, the United States, Scotland, Pakistan, Iraq, Oman, Armenia and Siberia. What we are seeing now is a global temperature increase of one degree. If nothing is done and if we do not change society at a rapid pace and reduce emissions, we can move towards uncontrolled temperature increases that threaten our civilisation fundamentally. We need to act. Sweden must continue to be a world leader in climate change and ensure that we can implement the Paris Agreement, reduce emissions in the EU and ensure that Sweden becomes the world's first fossil-free welfare country. At the same time, we need to improve emergency preparedness and invest in climate adaptation. Many life savings were destroyed this summer when the fires ravaged and the fields dried up. There is now a shortage of feed for the animals in the tracks of the drought, with the risk of emergency slaughter and deterioration of the conditions for the livestock farmers. The Green Party has for a long time been pushing for increased resources for emergency preparedness and adaptation to climate change. Such money has also been put in place for the last term of office. The rescue service has made magnificent efforts against summer forest fires. Many volunteers have made invaluable efforts. Sweden appeared from its best side when everyone did their utmost to prevent an even greater disaster. It was also positive that the authorities reacted earlier than at the fire in Västmanland in 2014, as well as that MSB took greater responsibility and was also given the right to request additional international fire-fighting resources from countries that are not part of EU civil protection cooperation. There is also a need for more fireplanes in the Nordic countries, either by placing fireplanes here in the EU or by taking joint responsibility for purchasing in the Nordic countries or nationally. Sharing capacity between countries is more effective than everyone buying their own planes that stand on the ground for most years. At the same time, it is clear that more resources will be needed in the future. The Environmental Party wants municipalities and county councils to develop action plans to cope with the heat wave. The government has decided on financial support for affected farmers and decided on a series of new measures aimed at evaluating and remedying the most obvious shortcomings that have emerged since this summer's extreme weather. Summer's prolonged heat and drought have also affected many other parts of society. Not least, the drought has had a major impact on groundwater levels in both large and small aquifers and led to low flows in several watercourses and lakes. The risk of water scarcity has therefore been issued for many sensitive medium-sized and large watercourses in large parts of southern and central Sweden. For groundwater, the situation in small aquifers is much below normal throughout Götaland. Today, the Government is deciding on further measures to combat water scarcity, including emergency water tanks and regional water supply plans. During the term of office, the government has also made substantial preventive efforts. For example, the biggest investment since the 1990s in civil defence has been made, with a total reinforcement of 1.3 billion over the period 2018-2020. For the Green Party, these initiatives are something that we have worked particularly hard for. The government has also reinforced SOS Alarm, so that you can now send important messages to the public specifically to people who are in a crisis-affected place. A study has also been set up on a more equivalent, efficient and secure municipal civil protection system. That report has now been submitted for consultation. We have also increased MSB's funding by SEK 34 million for civil protection and population protection. We have strengthened the training of firefighters and developed a new basic training for part-time firefighters. These are many and important measures that have already been put in place, but much more is needed in the future.
i-d35129822bd431c1-57	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the opportunity to debate these basic preparedness issues that are so important for our kingdom's short-term and long-term security, development and opportunity for growth throughout the country! There are enormous values at stake. There are an enormous number of people who have been affected during this summer and who have had to think about whether they will get help on time. On walborgsmässofton I wart at Värmlandsnäs in southern Värmland, under a roof on a dance course. It was raining all the time, and there were many of us there who cuddled and also pondered the possibilities ahead. It was spring use, harvest and a lovely summer. Then there was a few weeks of sun and heat, and many rejoiced. Eventually, though, the joy of passing over began to become increasingly concerned about where we were going. The drought continued. The next rain came the day before midsummer. Then came week after week with higher heat and increasing fire risk. Back in Värmland, I saw how the fires struck during the month of May. I brought it up in the Committee on Defence. It was trains that set fire to various distances — miles. They fought this weekend after the weekend with voluntary efforts. It was h emvärnet, and LRF drove its manure cans to help transport water and to strengthen preparedness locally. I noticed that this did not go all the way. We called for help. Fire escapes came from southern Europe, and soon these fire escapes returned home. Did the responsible judge that the danger was over? It's a question I've been carrying with me all summer. After Almedalen, many thought it was time for a vacation, not least the government representative, because it took quite a while before the signals came about what was happening around the country. Up to 80 - 100 ongoing fires during the same day affected a large part of our population. It was an enormous part of Swedish landowners and forest owners who saw their forests lit up and how the process went very quickly. Perseverance has been tried extremely hard this summer. We've seen it locally. We've seen it regionally. And we've seen it nationally. Thank you for having neighbours to the west, to the east and to the rest of Europe! What would we have done if we hadn't had that help? And what could we not have handled if we had got the flights back? But it is about effort times to get up a flight from southern Europe while the fires have grown in size up in Sveg, in Ljusdal and in Älvdalen. Yes, there are enormous consequences in each firehouse, from a few hectares to several thousand hectares per fire area. It is possible to compare the cost of a national fire aircraft with the consequence of the extensive fires in terms of socio-economic values. It is a matter of choosing the path, and it is a matter of taking action on time. One question is then: Why has the government not done more after the investigation after Västmanlandsbranden 2014 was presented? Around the turn of the year and the Christmas celebrations of 2016/ 17 I made an interpellation to the then Minister Ygeman about the personnel recruitment in the emergency services. It was about the difficulty of staffing and, above all, the difficulty of maintaining staff. The answer I got from the minister was that an investigation was set up. That investigation was carried out. It was presented before midsummer. These are very valuable and important proposals that must be managed. But now we are standing here after these fires to which several leading ministers have referred. Now is the time to do the evaluation. Now is the time to follow up and also to demand responsibility. I see. I could not predict that this summer would mean so little rain, but for that reason it does not mean that I think it will rain every year ahead. I have enormous respect for local involvement and for the influence of our 290 municipalities' decision-makers in dimensioning civil protection, but we must provide the conditions so that we have a recruitment process that is developed and that has peoples' roots throughout the country. The Prime Minister refers to money that we from the Moderates, the Center Party and the government parties have negotiated for civil defence. Yes, in what way does it go to emergency services? I wasn't discussing emergency services a year ago. I discussed the total defense and the planning of it. The dissemination of information from the country's top politicians is extremely important, and it is important that it is correct. I have also noted this in the weeks when this was going on. I am impressed and extremely grateful for the enormous work that has been done. To a question about battle value, the answer was: Yes, we are tired, but we are motivated. That motivation, commitment and drive will be carried forward as we present the conditions for achieving the next few years. Then responsibility and leadership are needed. The debate will continue.
i-d35129822bd431c1-70	Madam President, I would like During the summer, our Swedish forest has burned in several parts of the country, and great values have been lost. It has served as a wake-up call for many, a wake-up call that we need to be better equipped and take climate change very seriously. I would like to begin by thanking all those firefighters, Home Guard soldiers, NGOs and individuals involved in the extinguishing work. You made an amazing and heroic effort. Thank you! It is not possible to discuss forest fires without discussing at the same time the root causes of their emergence. The link between fires and climate change is clear, although it seems that some have put on blind spots. We have experienced the worst heat wave and drought in 260 years, since the measurements began. In the future, more extreme weather conditions, such as heavy rains, storms, floods and intense heat, will increase as a result of climate change. This is not an invention. These are hard facts. Already this summer we have seen people all over the world fleeing natural disasters, and Sweden is no exception. The fact that our forest is burning will not only feel economically but also ecologically. The forest is one of Sweden's most important industries. With a warmer climate, forest fires will increase. What can this mean for Sweden? It is a question that we must take with us when drawing conclusions from summer forest fires. The need to adapt Sweden to climate change was already highlighted in the final report of the Climate and Vulnerability Study in 2007. Among other things, they say that the risk of greater and more intense forest fires will increase in the future. Then one might ask: Have we heeded that warning signal, and have we equipped ourselves well enough to meet it? I don't think so. I think more needs to be done. It can be extremely costly if we are not better equipped in the future. Certainly we have learned from the fire in Västmanland in 2014, and certainly the coordination worked better this time. It is, of course, necessary to compensate the affected municipalities, forest owners and NGOs for their efforts. It is good that the government allocates more to training places for firefighters. The only question is whether it's enough. It is also excellent that an analysis and evaluation should be carried out on this year's efforts, and there is certainly reason to return to these issues later. However, one lesson we can draw from this is that we need better access to aircraft and helicopters to combat fires from the air. We cannot always rely on the Italian and French plans being available to us when we need them. The Left Party has therefore proposed that Sweden, together with the other Nordic countries, should purchase flights to combat fires. We have also proposed that conscripts in their basic education should be allowed to train themselves in firefighting and other disaster control measures. We also believe that the Swedish Armed Forces must be given a clearer directive to assist society in the context of crises and natural disasters. But the most important thing is, of course, to prevent natural disasters and fires in the long term in the future. We must take steps to urgently shift society as a whole in a more sustainable direction. We must get away from dependence on oil, coal and fossil gas. It is absolutely essential if we want to meet the climate challenge and the environment in the future. The Left Party has a plan for how Sweden can become fossil-free by 2040. The Left Party has put forward a series of concrete proposals for a long-term sustainable society. We want to give a clearer mandate to an authority to better coordinate work on climate adaptation. We want to allocate extra resources to both MSB and SMHI to better work with climate adaptation. Municipalities also have an important role to play. They now have the opportunity to seek government money to assess and prevent risks. Needs are great, and demand is much greater than the money currently available to distribute. In order to enable municipalities to implement pre-emptive measures, we therefore want to increase the grant by SEK 150 million, in addition to the government's, for the next three years. We also want to allocate 300 million extra to the county administrative boards for climate adaptation measures. We want to invest SEK 1 billion annually in support for municipalities, county councils and companies that want to adapt and reduce their emissions. The Left Party also wants to establish a green investment bank, with at least SEK 100 billion in equity, which will lead the climate transition with investments in industrial transition, renewable energy, climate renovation of premises and sustainable transport. We want to give clear assignments to our AP funds to stop investing in coal, oil and fossil gas. We want to phase out environmentally harmful subsidies as far as possible. In this way, we are better equipped for changing weather conditions while at the same time braking Sweden's negative climate impact. We must act now, because tomorrow may be too late.
i-d35129822bd431c1-84	Madam President, I would like It is already clear that in this debate we are discussing not only forest fire control in the summer of 2018, but in a broader sense the nation's collective crisis management capabilities and capabilities for civil defence. As far as crisis management is concerned, it is my view that, as someone mentioned earlier, a number of major mistakes have been made in recent decades. One of the biggest was that the government Persson proposed and decided in 2004 that support for civil society would no longer be a task for the Swedish Armed Forces. One can of course think about how this dimensional task is to be interpreted. When I visit the helicopter squadron in Kallix, Madam President, and ask whether they are going to go out and fight forest fires in the coming summer, I always get the answer: Yes, we know that we are going to – but because we are not allowed to prepare, equip ourselves or plan for that activity, we cannot even adapt our holidays so that it will be possible to carry out in a painless way for the individual. It is, of course, an entirely rigid interpretation that has led to the fact that the common resources we have in society are not of optimum benefit. Already five years ago, a united defence committee proposed that the government review this with the task of the Armed Forces to support civil society. Although it has now been five years, such an investigation is still not under way. I noticed that a few weeks ago Morgan Johansson commissioned MSB to look at the very narrow question of how the Swedish Armed Forces' helicopters can be used in forest fire control. It's a way too narrow a grant. The Swedish Armed Forces have resources in many areas that can be useful to our crisis management capabilities. It is about transport, medical care, logistics and helicopters and aircraft. Another important mistake was made more in the near future, in 2014, which Mikael Oscarsson was into. When the international situation was deteriorating most drastically, the government and the Prime Minister decided to divide civil and military defence into two different departments – at a moment when we would again start with a total defence planning, namely the coordination of these different defence components. This, of course, led to territorial disputes between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence in terms of total defence planning. This also led to the Swedish Civil Protection Agency being placed under one department and the Swedish Armed Forces under another. In his latest report – led by the Chairman of the Defence Committee, Björn von Sydow – a unanimous report suggested that civil defence should now be returned to the Ministry of Defence in order to achieve effective coordination. Whether or not a future government will raise this proposal remains to be seen, Madam President. In the report on Resistance, the preparation also proposed that we establish a governance structure for civil defence. It took the government about eight months to set up the investigation, Madam President, and I am afraid I have to assume that the decision would still not be taken if we did not have forest fires this summer. It also referred to the need for regional reinforcement resources in civil defence. In preparation, the Liberals reserved themselves as a single party in favour of civilian basic education with duty. We did this partly because we need to have it as an alternative for those who want to carry out weapons-free service, and partly because fires will also be an important part of what happens to us in the event of war and crisis. We believe that it is perfectly possible for the next five years to train 2,500 fire soldiers who can be used both in peacetime and in times of crisis and war. Madam President, I would like I have visited the emergency services in Enköping-Håbo during the summer, and I have also visited the fire area Färila in Ljusdal. I have some concerns about the development of our fire defence. The picture I get is that our civil protection units are more dimensioned to extinguish apartment fires and take care of car accidents; rarely or never do you practice in the large, composite format. Now we have a total defence exercise coming in 2020, and a question I would like to address to the Minister for Home Affairs is to what extent this exercise will be used to practice precisely the large-scale forest fire control.
i-d35129822bd431c1-92	Madam President, I would like 70% of our country is made up of forest. We are the country with the most forest in Europe. What happened this summer shows that Sweden lacks the resources to deal with this type of forest fires. And I can tell you one thing, ladies and gentlemen, crises are happening again. We need to be more alert. We must learn something from what has happened! We cannot present to the Swedish people that we cannot do better, but, as many here have pointed out, we must make better use of state resources. As many have done, civil protection did great work, but it shows a weakness in society's ability to face serious peace crises – not to mention war, if the worst should happen. In practice, the spare equipment ran out. This applies to fire extinguishing equipment, hoses, engine sprays, etc. The Swedish Armed Forces made commendable efforts with helicopters, ground personnel and Home Guard personnel – but also here in practice on a voluntary basis because support for civil society is not part of the Swedish Armed Forces' tasks. E xempelvis could not therefore command staff to cancel the holiday to participate. It turned out again that the Swedish Maritime Administration's helicopters, a state resource, did not have fire extinguishing equipment. They didn't even have hooks to have the fire tunnels mounted. This is something I have stood in the Chamber and talked about in a number of debates, no later than last autumn, but to deaf ears. The minister responsible said that this is not a task. It goes without saying that the state's helicopters, which are so expensive, must be able to be used in the best possible way. The Maritime Administration must be given that task. All these weaknesses in Swedish fire preparedness were clear already after the fires in Västmanland in 2014. Nevertheless, the necessary measures were not taken by the government. Although it should appear clear that the state's resources for civil protection in the event of serious crises, at worst war, should be strengthened and coordinated, MSB was transferred from the Ministry of Defence to the Ministry of Justice – something that hardly contributed to better coordination and more efficient use of state resources. The conclusion is that now we need to think ahead about how we can make this better. We Christian Democrats demand the following measures: that MSB be returned to the Ministry of Defence and be responsible for the state's resource allocation of helicopters, for example, that the Swedish Armed Forces be given the task of supporting civil society in serious crises and that the Swedish Maritime Administration be given corresponding tasks, and that the planned contingency police organisation be able to be used in serious crises in both peace and war. After all, we agreed in the Defence Committee that an emergency police organization should be set up, but of course we must also be able to use it in peacetime. It becomes unreasonable to have such a good resource as emergency police if they are not to be used in peace. I think most people in this country understand that. An investigation should be initiated immediately in order to re-establish regional rescue forces, similar to those existing in the past, in the framework of civil defence construction, as proposed last winter by the Committee on Defence, with the ability to extinguish fires, clear rubble, lead major rescue operations and more. With the reintroduction of military service, conscripts could be trained directly for these tasks. An important part of it could be contract contracts like those of part-time firemen. Contract staff could then be available in peace. Then there must be an investigation into how we in Sweden can ensure that we have enough control possibilities from the air all over the country. We saw now that there wasn't just a fire in one place. We had a large fire in Västmanland in 2014 of 14 000 hectares and now almost twice as much in different places. You have to be able to be prepared to help in several places. We who are the country in Europe that has the most forest – our country consists of 70% forest – must be the country that has the best resources and should be able to help others. Then it is not good enough to have to take help from Norway. The government listed all the countries that helped, almost the whole of Europe. For example, the corresponding MSB in Norway has 22 helicopters, own or contracted. Our poor MSB has no one. The minister said MSB stepped forward. Yes, they did. But they did not have formal powers, as the Director-General himself has said. They listened, but we must ensure that we give them the power to allocate resources and decide where to use the helicopters. Morgan Johansson is now given the opportunity to explain how it is that the government has not given the Swedish Armed Forces the task of assisting in civil crises. Will the government do so as soon as possible?
i-d35129822bd431c1-103	Madam President, I would like Many strange things have been said in this debate so far. Some of the most peculiar come from the Swedish Democrats and Roger Richtoff. He says we don't have any fire planes to look for fires. He doesn't know about the volunteer air force? Does he not know of the Coast Guard's aircraft, which has been running all summer to look for fires? We have that capacity. Furthermore, he says that it was twelve thirteen days before Morgan Johansson found out that there was a law on protection against accidents that could be applied. He's got it all wrong. There is a law on protection against accidents. It is applied by the emergency services and rescue services and gives them enormous powers to cope with situations. It is not something that I need to make any specific decisions about or that the government needs to intervene for. As I have said, he has got it all wrong, and he is completely travelling in terms of the way in which crisis management works. Beatrice Ask says MSB was miserable. I think it was just the opposite. So if I said in my opening speech, MSB stepped in and took on a management responsibility that never before has been done, and they did it in an extremely good way. In some situations, it was also absolutely crucial. I can give you an example. Helicopters were routed down to southern Sweden and placed in Växjö to be prepared to pull out when the fire risk levels deteriorated very sharply in South Sweden. There was a risk of burning even in densely populated areas of the country, which could lead to major concerns, as everyone understands. And it was a good thing that they did that way, because just those days there was a fire in Blekinge where they had to pull out and extinguish the fire. The same development was on the way in Gothenburg. Among other things, a fire at Hisingen could have developed very seriously. These are concrete examples of how they took on management responsibilities by coordinating in a way that they have not done in the past. It may be necessary to give them additional formal powers to do so. I am open to doing that, and that is exactly what the evaluation should look at. But to say that they did not take a management responsibility during this summer is actually completely wrong. It is also wrong to claim that nothing was learned from Västmanland. It's just the opposite. What was learned from Västmanland? There are three things in particular: to put in many efforts early so that fires could be quickly extinguished, to call in the fires and to establish restrictions which would then be kept so that they did not end up in the same position as in Västmanland, where instead they had to hunt down the fire. That's exactly what they used to do. International efforts were also requested early, much earlier than in 2014. They also arrived much faster than before. What is needed in the future? More equipment is needed. There is a need for an increased rate of training for part-time firefighters, and for this we are going in with money from next year. There is also a need for increased airborne support. Among other things, we look at helicopters and aircraft. Of course, this will cost money. And this government, which I represent, will always, every day of the week, have more money to set aside for crisis preparedness than the Alliance plus the Swedish Democrats will have. Why? Because we are not going to elections on gigantic tax cuts. Let us say that we must give priority to this in the future. We are prepared to set aside the necessary resources. The question is, are you? Are you prepared to give this priority over tax cuts?
i-d35129822bd431c1-111	Madam President, I would like It is a bit silly to start running around tax matters and other things in this context. I think Morgan Johansson is well informed that our appropriations for defence and civilian preparedness far exceed those of the government. Maybe I was a little harsh when I said MSB was a little sick. But I said it from the outside that I've talked to a lot of people who worked locally. Initially, as I was careful to say, you didn't know what to say to people. It was not considered to be responsible for fuel. There were many such things that fell. Asking people from the municipalities were sent to various administrators to try to sort things out. It was a mess at first, and it was because you didn't have enough mandates, enough muscles. This is something you have to work with. Of course we learned from the fire in Västmanland. Shame would be the only way to do that. But it is clear that a solid investigation that had been completed might have gained a little more depth from those experiences. Of course, as MSB received more assignments, they did their homework. But they are an actor in this context, and it is always good if investigations are carried out by someone who does not have his own fingers in the jam jar, I think. There is much that has been said in this debate. It is clear that we can discuss climate policy and long-term measures. But I think it is very good that the situation of civil protection has come up on the political agenda, because when there is a fire, we want help and that help should come quickly. And there are major flaws. It is easy to talk about the responsibilities of municipalities, but what we see in the bailout investigation and in many places is that the units are very small. The National Association of Firefighters has conducted a survey in civil protection that shows that firefighters feel that they need better equipment and that there are great needs. When the Poles came to Härjedalen, of which the citizens were very happy, it was civil protection workers who said: We would also like to have those new cars, because we often have old-fashioned equipment. It is important that we in Parliament dare to discuss the resources that lie here and the investigations that exist. Now the government has said that it should increase the number of seats for part-time firefighters. That's very good. We're missing 2,500 of those. But what we're not talking about is that a lot of people stop pretty fast. They're supposed to be on call every four weeks and an emergency call time of five minutes. It is a bond that many feel they are being paid too badly for, and one might agree with that. It is difficult in some places to recruit voluntary forces, because there are not people in the age categories who would be most useful. Many also testify that employers today are a little hesitant and find it a bit difficult to let people go off taking part - time fire jobs so that they can get out. They're very slim lines. Even municipalities find it difficult when staff leave. This needs to be sorted out. A very large part of the skills and resources we have when it comes to sending people out on fires, floods and other things are in part-time people who are also doing something else. We need to deal with these leavens and make sure that there is a better order. As far as forest fires are concerned, we from the Alliance have been exercising in succession about a better system of things. I hope that this time we will finish and get more power. We cannot just rely on the support of other countries, even if it is very good and grateful when we get it.
i-d35129822bd431c1-121	Madam President, I would like The minister said the fire plane is working great. That's how you can interpret it. When we say that the fire aircraft was phased out between 2002 and 2007, it is clearly not true – it is clear that the fire aircraft is still there to detect fires. But this was not decommissioned and supported. Hans Pålsson, Chairman of the Motor Air Force Association, writes in a debate article – but he is probably wrong and well makes it up – that at these airfields, which are extremely important in preserving the fire aircraft, you see that you do not have the support of politicians that you want. He and the other authors of the articles, including the Secretary-General of the Motor Air Association, point out that it is a shortcoming if the decision-makers do not understand that local airports are extremely important for this. Furthermore, at this time Morgan Johansson, they call on the Minister for Economic Affairs not to forget these airports. I can hand the article over to the minister later. Now, according to the article's information, it is almost free to fly. That's what you're building on. But earlier they were replaced with a sum of money and paid for what they did. Then I think it is a bit too strong, the Minister, to ignore all the investigations and to point out that it works well, that this is discovered and that you have a good management resource. You don't. I strongly question your leadership skills. So what do we want to do? We want to take immediate action. We need a national crisis unit, which will be directly under the Prime Minister. We need to develop action plans with timetables for the actions that these investigations show. A person who would certainly be a suitable leader is sitting in this Chamber, namely Björn von Sydow. It is a person who is excellent at conducting investigations. I myself participate in some of them. As far as I know, he is not a Swedish Democrat so far. Maybe he won't be. But it is an example of taking managers who are generally good. We need to develop the timetable with the rules of action. Why not set up civilian areas, as we put forward in Resistance? The 21 county boards may form five or six civilian areas, as we said. The governor is given a planning role over these areas. Of course, that role should be moved back under the Prime Minister and not under the Minister of Justice. Then it is important to start recruiting executives to our government agencies with regard to competence and not on the basis of party book. This applies not least to MSB. I will not comment on their Director-General personally. That's enough when he talks on his own. When you do this, you have to start practicing. You have to practice, practice and practice, or it will never work. The Norwegians, who were inside and flying, fly in circles and look where the former dropped their cargo. Then the next one comes. You have to train your skills to get this in the right place. Our H elicopter 14 – we have 18, I think – to be equipped with fire-fighting equipment, but not all. That won't be necessary, because some people are always on the hill. This also applies to H elicopter 16. And then we start practicing, practicing and practicing. But it costs 250 000 – 270 000 an hour. These are the resources involved. So what do we do? You've sold H elicopter 4. I will come back to you with further proposals during my last two minutes.
i-d35129822bd431c1-129	Madam President, I would like The Green Party has focused on environmental and climate policy for almost 40 years. In the last four years, we have begun the transition towards a more sustainable society and more than doubled the environmental budget. But we're far from done. We're just getting started and we still have a lot to do. In autumn 2017, the Green Party adopted a climate roadmap with 140 proposals for Sweden to live up to the Paris Agreement. After the forest fire in Västmanland in 2014, the Green Party put forward proposals for more resources linked to extreme weather events and fire aircraft. Then we met with questioning. Now it's quite a different tone. More and more people have realised that extreme weather is something we have to deal with politically. This summer is just a foretaste of what a warmer world really means. If we do nothing, resource shortages, water shortages and forest fires will have enormous consequences. People around the world are already being affected, and more and more people will have to flee from wars and conflicts that arise in the wake of drought and resource shortages. During the summer, the Green Party has highlighted the proposal to develop risk analyses and ability assessments to complement the national inventories in order to create a stronger and common Nordic social security with, among other things, a common extinguishing capacity. We want to invest 500 million extra each year in state support for climate adaptation to equip Sweden for extreme weather events. The Green Party wants to both broaden and strengthen the civil defence part of the total defence. We see the need for a much broader approach in Sweden's ability to meet extreme weather changes and climate change. We believe that virtually all organisations that want to contribute can be part of civil defence. Civil preparedness also includes farmers, i.e. entrepreneurs. Moreover, agriculture deserves a great deal of thanks for this summer's efforts, as it did on its own initiative. It is an incredible strength and power we have in all organisations in our civil society. We have now also presented an investment plan for a fossil-free society for the next parliamentary term. Among other things, the last drop of fossil fuel will sell as 2030, and Sweden will have 100 percent renewable electricity. We must ensure our food security and increase sustainable food production. Swedish agriculture needs to become more resilient and less dependent on imports. At the same time, we need to start a long-term and structural transition to a more organic farming where the environmental impact is reduced. Climate is one of the greatest challenges of our time. The decisions we are making now are crucial for the planet of future generations. It is good that we are spending this afternoon evaluating and thinking ahead, but at least as important to increase our crisis preparedness in Sweden and the EU is that we seriously reduce emissions and do everything we can to curb climate change.
i-d35129822bd431c1-134	Madam President, I would like Of course, many have learned experience in the practicality of what happened in 2014 and on other occasions when it has burned in Sweden. The vulnerability has also been seen. Contingency is vulnerable. The lack of 2,500 civil protection staff across the country and the major recruitment difficulties are extremely important issues to start prioritising. I agree that access to materiel and hoses and these kinds of issues are also priorities. What we had in the dimensioning of resources for the summer was enough for a while. Then the hoses were broken or rolled out, and the fire jumped over and they had to call in reinforcements. When reinforcement resources begin to run nationally, this is a matter for real analysis. There is a need for clearer mandates, and there is a need for clearer responsibilities, not least in the meeting between a strengthened civil protection service locally and all non-profit-oriented and committed and helping people – for whom I have also met. I met one as late as yesterday who drove a manure barrel at one of the fires during the summer. Although it works in many places, there are still a lot of places around the municipalities in Sweden where you need to trim this and practice together before a crisis and before a fire, because it is rarely together. What is my task in a sharp position? Where am I going? What am I supposed to do with the water I'm picking up, and what can I do to get the best effect? The same question arises about the need to have a plane present that can fight fires from the air. We can follow up and reflect on the response of government representatives to this issue early this summer and at the end of the summer. Insights caught up. We can also stop and think about how important it was once the flights were here and you could take on new fires so that there were no major and negative consequences of them. At that time the aircraft were coordinated to many different places to extinguish early. It had an effect. It also gave, I think, practical experience of how important it is to have a present, accessible flight that can fight fires. Just as important is this as we heard earlier about access to logistics throughout the country. Aviation fuel was transported from Luleå airport down to Sveg, and it was carried out for a few hours to adapt to the practical conditions at the local level. It was an enormous work by the airport manager in Sveg that made this work. But it wasn't groomed in advance. We need more depots around the country where we have available supplies but also fuel. We can do this together if we plan for a stronger total defence civil and military. R esurspools are needed, and it is important to think about how to recruit so that there are present staff. Extinguishing bales for the Swedish Armed Forces and hooks on state helicopters should be urgent and possible to achieve quickly without having to investigate the issue for too long. After the fires of these months, we have many examples of these practical and concrete measures, and they could be dealt with in the current financial year.
i-d35129822bd431c1-142	Madam President, I would like Forest fires have brutally exposed the consequences of climate change. I think it's become clear to a lot of people around the country. I therefore find it frightening that several of the parliamentary parties involved in this debate do not seem to take the warning signs of climate change seriously. The Swedish democrats seem to lack a policy on the environment and climate. Nor am I particularly impressed by the environmental and climate policy of the other bourgeois parties. We have a shared responsibility for our common future, and no one escapes that responsibility. We must be able to discuss both how we are better equipped to fight the fires and how we prevent them from arising. You have the opportunity to come back here in further contributions and explain how you view climate and environmental issues. Referring to the expansion of nuclear power, as some parties have done in the past, is both short-term and risky. Nuclear power is not renewable but depends on uranium, which will also run out. The environmental problems associated with nuclear power are significant both in mining and operation and in final disposal. The waste can be dangerous for 100,000 years. It simply needs to provide other solutions to meet climate change – solutions based on renewable energy such as solar, wind and water. It can be done if the political will exists, and it must be done. We don't have a choice. Now the important after-extinguishing and afterwork is going on in the forests. It is a work that will take a very long time. In this work a great responsibility has been placed on forest owners. The Left Party believes that we should investigate whether responsibility should instead be at the level of government. When MSB participates in the disaster work, forest owners should not have to take full responsibility for the after-extinguishing work. We also need to strengthen preparedness in a number of areas that I have touched upon in the past. But we also need to strengthen civil protection around the country. Much more firefighters are needed, and it is good that the government now wants to devote more resources to training firefighters. But firefighters also need much better and more decent working conditions and higher wages. We also need to look at how we can strengthen part-time fire brigades. For a long time it has been difficult to recruit to the part-time fire brigades. For example, municipalities could encourage their employees to join the part-time fire brigade, and even larger companies could take responsibility. Today, there are even companies that prohibit their employees from joining the part-time fire brigade. The requirements for becoming a part-time fireman and the conditions for being a part-time fireman also need to be reviewed. Another perspective highlighted by politicians in the affected municipalities is that there is no national organisation to deal with the psychosocial consequences that can follow a major disaster. I think that this is an important aspect that we should take on board and look further at. I would also like to put a question to Minister of Justice and Home Affairs Morgan Johansson, and it is whether he is willing to give a clearer responsibility to an authority to coordinate work on climate adaptation.
i-d35129822bd431c1-150	Madam President, I would like Only in the Swedish Armed Forces are there today on paper and more than 30 medium-helicopters. Over time, two to three of them were active at forest fire extinguishing during the summer, while at some point, for example, there were up to seven helicopters from Norway. This is not an expression of inefficiency or poor order on the equipment of the Swedish Armed Forces, but is a direct consequence of the fact that the Swedish Armed Forces must not plan for, must not equip themselves for and must not practise support for civil society. I have asked the question together with Mikael Oscarsson to Minister of the Interior Morgan Johansson if he has considered the possibility of going back to the order in force before 2004. In my world, this is not only about civil society getting better support, it is also about more flying hours for both helicopter drivers and flight drivers in the Armed Forces and thus also a higher ability in their military mission. I also believe that when we talk about peoples' attachment to our Swedish defence, support for civil society is particularly important. Yes, H elicopter 4 was a phenomenal helicopter. If Roger Richtoff has Googled the decommissioning, he knows that there were some committed voices trying to stop that. But I'm afraid it's done now. It is now a matter of ensuring that we equip the helicopters we have for a broader task, including support for civil society. Before we rush off to buy forest fire aircraft here in Sweden, we could also consider looking at the possibilities of temporarily resetting C-130 Hercule or T ranch plane 84 for forest fire extinguishing. The NATO Civil Protection Mechanism has organised it in such a way that it can also be used in the extinguishing work. It could also be a win-win solution. Nor has the Minister of the Interior commented on whether it is the Government's intention and the Prime Minister's intention to eventually put together civil and military defence in the Government Office again, thereby achieving better coordination and greater impact. In the middle of the debate, I would also like to extend warm thanks to all those who, within and outside the service, contributed to the extinguishing not only of the three major fires but also of the many other fires that raged during the summer. A few weeks ago, I also put a written question to the Minister for Home Affairs as to what measures he was prepared to take to ensure that the people who have made these fantastic efforts could be awarded in special order by the government. A few days ago I was told that there is no medal but that the government will thank those who have helped. Madam President, I would like I think if the government wanted to create a medal it would have been quite easy to do. And I think I know, based on my experience of veteran politics, that it would have been highly appreciated by those who have now made a contribution. But I understand that you don't want to take that step. Instead, I would like to ask the Minister for the Interior: in what way does the Government intend to give due thanks to individuals and others who are supposed to owe them?
i-d35129822bd431c1-158	Madam President, I would like When we asked for this debate, we wanted it to be forward-looking, to see how this can be done better in the future. Now the Minister of Justice has the opportunity to respond clearly to these things. I'd be happy to repeat the questions. The first question was that MSB should be returned to the Ministry of Defence. Does the government realize that you made a big mistake when you went the other way and removed MSB from the Department of Defense? Do you agree to give national responsibility for the allocation of resources to MSB? Do you agree that it is totally unreasonable that no one in this country can control the state's helicopters? That's completely unreasonable. Can we hear it loud and clear from the Minister? Then it was the Armed Forces. Do you agree to give the Armed Forces the task of supporting civil society in the event of serious crises? It's very important. Allan Widman pointed out earlier that we have many helicopters. We have 15 Black Hawk, and we have 16 H elicopters 14. Over time, as has been pointed out here, between two and three helicopters were used, while other countries helped us. Does this not show how unreasonable it is that this should not be dimensioned? Does the Minister agree to give the Armed Forces back their responsibility to help? Is there a formal obstacle? How is it that nothing has happened with regard to additional information, either during the fire or now later? Today, there are ten crews who are trained and able to handle these fire tunnels. These are large fire cans that can withstand 2,500 liters. It's a hugely important resource. Everyone understands that. Civil actors are doing a great deal of work. But they may last 300 to 400 liters. It is therefore important to use our own resources. There were six of these who volunteered. But if the Armed Forces had been given the task, it could have gone from two three to four five. I've checked that, too. That is what you could have done if you had been given the task. It would have been possible to redeploy and call in staff. It is tragic that we are not using the resources we have. Why does the government not take this initiative, at least now afterwards? You're Minister of Justice too, Morgan Johansson. Now we agree across party boundaries that the emergency police should be introduced. Is it not reasonable that the emergency police can also be used in times of crisis and not only in times of war? I want a concrete answer to this. And how does the minister view the rescue corps that existed before? They were an amazing resource. Aren't they an important part of restoring a credible total defense? When it comes to helicopters, you also need to keep them in order if you want to have a total defence. MSB in Norway has 22 helicopters – 22. MSB in Sweden has zero helicopters. And you can't even command help from the Swedish Maritime Administration or the Swedish Armed Forces. How does the minister view this?
i-d35129822bd431c1-168	Madam President, I would like I turn first to the Swedish Democrats and Roger Richtoff. It is obvious that when you are pressed a little and you are told that you are travelling, as in the first speech, you will have to back off. No, we haven't decommissioned the fire aircraft. That is what Roger Richtoff said in his first post. In his second post, after I had pushed a bit, we were told that there may be some problems with the airfields. He backed back in that position. Do not stand and say things in a parliamentary debate that are actually wrong and that you can very easily reveal! Because that's how it's going to be. And I guess it's obvious to everyone that it was wrong. I have another question for Mr Richtoff concerning this. He's got two more minutes. It is about climate policy. Do you stand by your denial of climate change? Jimmie Åkesson rallied about it in her summer speech. I believe that if it has not been understood that climate change is a real problem, we do not understand the question itself and why we need to increase our preparedness. It's obvious to the vast majority of us. But the Swedish Democrats have been the party that has denied it. As far as emergency preparedness is concerned, I think I have been clear in this debate that we need more equipment. It's about more material in our forest fire depots. We must also have more men. It's about training more part-time firefighters. We also need to strengthen airborne firefighting. It's about helicopters. It can be about aircraft, it can be about EU capacity and it can be about Swedish capacity. But there won't be any more helicopters if you're not prepared to spend money on it. Therefore, Beatrice Ask, it is not at all ridiculous when I say that there is a contradiction here. One cannot go to elections on promises of major tax cuts and say in the next breath that the defence must buy in more helicopters or that further investment must be made. I think, then, that it will be exactly the same as the last time you ruled, that you give priority to tax cuts over emergency preparedness.
i-d35129822bd431c1-176	Madam President, I would like To Morgan Johansson I can only say: We promise no extra holiday week for billions. So we can discuss this issue of economics another time. When there's a fire, people don't care which party thinks what. Then you want the emergency services to come, and you want it to be handled effectively. I think we all agree that there is more to be done. And we in the Alliance have presented a ten-point programme that is a good start to upgrade civil protection and the various functions required in event chains such as fires, major floods and other things. Management and coordination, at national and multi-level levels, must be improved. There are countless examples of this. A rescue chief had to spend a whole day answering all the civilian calls until he threw the phone and called his boss and said, "Can I take out a new cell phone, because this doesn't hold?" For he would also lead the work of combating an insidious forest fire. There's more to do here. We are trying to work on these issues in a concrete, purposeful and practical way. It's incredibly important. I don't have to repeat what my comrades in the Alliance have lifted up here. In many respects we agree, and that is a good thing. There are a few things that have not been raised that I would like to mention in 40 seconds anyway. One is the question: When is a fire under control? Several of the large fires have been extinguished in batches, and then they have made it again. We need to discuss and reflect on the responsibility for the after-extinguishing work. The second thing is: Many fires are constructed – not the big fires in Norrland, nobody believes that. I have met rescue managers in Central Sweden who have said that up to 30% of the fires in some areas have been constructed. Fire bans are not respected either, and people are sloppy. We must work on this. The third thing I don't have time to go into is: Is the forest insured? The big companies are their own insurance companies, but otherwise the forest is quite unprotected. That's a problem.
i-d35129822bd431c1-185	Madam President, I would like You should have time to face the Minister's lies, but I'll see if I can do it. I'm used to your lies and your debauchery. I hope we get rid of you on 9 September, but that's another question. I'll try to face your lies. What do we want to do? We want to preserve and support the small airfields. We want to support the fire aircraft financially. In 2002-2007, State aid was phased out, among other things. Then it was introduced again after the storm Gudrun. Some of them volunteered for it. There are major financial problems with an archaic fleet in many cases. You don't get any grants. Nor is there any support for keeping airports as large as they would like. Then we think that one should be able to alert. If there is a need, you change the rules. You should be able to have Hercules planes and helicopters on alert. Then you have to make some changes to the rules. Do it! Then you have to practice and buy the MAFF system for Hercule, for example, as we proposed in 2015. In our 2015 budget exercise, we proposed to buy in standby. We're gonna buy firefighting equipment, yeah, we're gonna need it. It has been raised by several alliance parties here. Today it is said that it is not necessary to solve the war tasks. But in the future it will burn even in war, so then you have the opportunity to run this in. The Left Party and the Green Party have completely ignored the climate investigation. We're in favour of nuclear power. We believe that the climate is changing. There was an ice age with two kilometers thick ice cover. They will be back in 20 000 to 30 000 years. The climate is changing. The only thing the Green Party and the Left Party have accomplished is an intellectual fire street. That's your legacy.
i-d35129822bd431c1-193	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for this debate. I think there have been many interesting perspectives. There were probably many of us who were shocked by the prolonged drought and the extremely serious consequences of the fires. We will live with the consequences of them for quite a long time. There is also an enormous strength in Sweden's ability to mobilize and the will of everyone around Sweden to help do it as well as possible. During this debate, I have tried to raise climate change in a number of ways. After all, this – although it is a single weather event that cannot be linked to climate change – is an example of what will become much more common with a warmer climate. There will be more drought, more floods and more fires. We must be prepared for it, and society must adapt to it. We must ensure that more efforts are made to adapt to climate change and that there is a capacity that will enable us to address this better. However, no more helicopters will prevent more fires from occurring in the future. There will be more, no matter how much climate change adaptation measures we take or how well we put civil defence. What is really needed is climate policy. We need to change the whole of society, industry and transport. We must consume in a different way. We cannot live as if there is more than one globe; all of this we need to do now. All researchers and all parties except the Swedish Democrats agree that this is what it looks like. It is now that we have the opportunity to take that responsibility, but in just a few years it may be too late. I really want to say that it is now that we need it.
i-d35129822bd431c1-197	Madam President, I would like Thank you, other co-debaters, for this important debate. A warm thank you to all who during the summer have made such extremely important contributions in different contexts and in different assignments! It is collaboration and cooperation that will make us succeed in strengthening our crisis preparedness in the future. The most important work ahead of us is how we manage and take advantage of the good proposals and investigative initiatives that have been presented and will be presented. We must learn from experience and make practical policy out of reality. The Green Party and the Left Party want to focus more on a macro level here and discuss the climate effects from a global perspective than to see what concrete measures need to be taken for crisis preparedness. I agree that it goes hand in hand. Forests are an extremely important resource for transforming Sweden into a more sustainable society. This applies to renewable fuels and to the sequestration of carbon dioxide. We must also have an enterprise that contributes to sustainability throughout the country. This question is very relevant to many of the forest owners who have been affected during the summer. The more we can do to improve the climate, the more we can develop the areas. Then there is a need for emergency preparedness and a principle of proximity that makes people feel safe when there is a fire. When there's a fire, you should know you're getting help. Emergency preparedness should not be dimensioned just to withstand an alarm. There can be many alarms at the same time in a municipality. Then we need a dimensioning that lasts and also meets the needs of the individual. We need to strengthen preparedness throughout the country. We are prepared to provide the resources needed to get more staff, to buy in equipment and to build a management structure – this in order to do this better together. Anticipating the unpredictable is one of the challenges facing our leadership in the future.
i-d35129822bd431c1-204	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, we are likely to see more fires and other natural disasters in the future, although we must do our best to prevent them by urgently changing society in a long-term sustainable direction. We must also be better equipped next time there is a fire in our forests. We need better access to aircraft and helicopters to fight fire from the air. We should give the Armed Forces clearer instructions to participate in social crises and disasters. We could train the conscripts in firefighting and other disaster response. We can resume civilian duty to further increase preparedness and strengthen the entire civil defence. We need to train more firefighters and strengthen part-time fire brigades around the country and ensure that those working in civil protection receive better working conditions and higher salaries. Above all, we need to change society in the long term. The Left Party has put forward a number of concrete proposals. We want to give a clearer mission to an authority to coordinate work on climate adaptation. We want to allocate 150 million extra to municipalities for preventive work. We want to allocate 300 million annually to the county administrative boards for climate adaptation. We want to invest SEK 1 billion annually to support municipalities and county councils and companies that want to adapt and reduce their emissions. We want to introduce a green investment bank. These are just some of the proposals we have made in this area. Climate change is here for real, and we urgently need to start changing society so that it becomes sustainable in the long term in all areas. At the same time, we must equip ourselves to be better able to face various natural disasters in the future. It's not impossible. There is still time, and we know what needs to be done. Thank you for the debate.
i-d35129822bd431c1-210	Madam President, I would like Perhaps it is appropriate to inform the Minister for Justice and Home Affairs that, over the next three years, the Liberals want to spend 24 billion more than the government on military and civil defence. As far as we are concerned, therefore, cuts are not necessary. Nor is it about purchasing new helicopters or perhaps even aircraft, but it is about ensuring that our common resources are used optimally on behalf of taxpayers. Do we want to be involved in such coordination or not? On this point, the Minister for Home Affairs still owes me the answer. Nor have I been given an answer to the question of how the government intends to reward and express its appreciation for those who have made efforts within and outside the rescue service this summer. That question, too, must well be borne in mind. Madam President, I would like I know that the President cannot intervene, but, now that I have my last speech, allow me to express my deep regret at the fact that opponents of opinions use expressions such as that of lies and lies about what others are saying. It does not contribute to respect for either our democracy or this House. Thank you for the debate.
i-d35129822bd431c1-213	Madam President, I would like I and the Christian Democrats asked for this debate because we thought it was important to highlight how we can learn from what has happened and ensure that we are better equipped the next time this happens. Since 70 percent of our kingdom consists of forest, we can expect this to happen again. Then it cannot be that we must again experience that MSB does not have the authority to command helicopters and that there is no one who can do so. This is an unreasonable situation. I think this is something that not only I want answers to; I believe that even the Swedish people want to hear how it is that MSB has not been given powers. And why have you not listened to what was perhaps one of the single most important proposals from the Defence Committee, namely that MSB should be brought back to the Ministry of Defence? The Armed Forces have amazing helicopters. Especially Black Hawk is a fantastic helicopter, which can land virtually anywhere and that can take large buckets of water. What prevents the government from taking the initiative to give back the task of helping civil society when we do not get through this? Why not take such an initiative? That would have made a difference this summer. Between two and three helicopters were used, but there could have been four five. I wonder where the shoe really squeezes. Of course, it is good that other countries help us; we are grateful for that. But why is it that we cannot use our own resources? And how does the minister view the emergency services and rescue services? How can we make Sweden more robust? One thing is certain: this is not the last time we see a crisis. We need to be better equipped the next time it happens.
i-d35129822bd431c1-217	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to raise a clean hygiene issue. Richtoff! Do not stand and accuse others of making lies if you cannot then back up your claim with a single word! This is especially true when you yourself have been out cycling, as you have been in this debate, and have been made up with claims that are actually not true. I got an answer to my question. I asked the Swedish Democrats a question about how they view climate policy. I got the answer: climate change was waved away. It became clear to everyone. After the summer fires, we are now going forward with the evaluation to be carried out. This is to be done systematically and properly. You should look at many different kinds of questions. Management and control are part of this. I am open to change even in that part. However, I can draw conclusions right now about things that we have to do and things that also need to be done quite quickly. It is about the purchase of equipment, about the ratings – to train more firefighters – and about the airborne support for firefighting. During the debate, many of you on the alliance side have highlighted the need for defence to do more to combat crisis like this. I would like to point out that the defence did a great job during the summer. The Home Guard worked very well. We had access to the helicopters. Seven crews went around on the helicopters we had up there. You say you want to bet more. That's good. But I think most people remember how the alliance government cut down so much on the defense during its reign that a defense minister resigned in protest. You also abolished military service. That's where we're from. This government is now strengthening the defence and making sure to spend more money on civil defence than any other government has done in a long time. We're gonna keep going that way. However, I know one thing: you will never be able to pay a single new helicopter or a single new fire hose with a tax reduction. Therefore, the outcome of the elections is also important from the point of view of crisis preparedness.
