i-3d4793c627777c51-1	Mr President, I would like to Housing is an important part of our lives. It is important that our homes are safe and that they can be adapted to our different circumstances and needs that arise in life. A mix of living forms and alternatives is needed. The housing market should be dynamic and be able to develop as we get new needs and wishes for how we want to live. As a Christian Democrat, I see a number of things that need to be simplified, improved and strengthened for a functioning housing market in the coming years in Sweden. The rental market is an important part of the housing market. However, the Swedish housing market is in crisis. Although construction has taken off, housing shortages are widespread throughout the country. The business community is witnessing an inaccessible housing market that makes recruitment difficult, and the chambers of commerce of towns and cities are seeing a threatened growth for the country's key business. The rental market is currently very difficult to access. Anyone who cannot offer a rental contract in exchange or spend money under the table is referred to a second- and third-hand market or a very long housing queue. Landlords require unblemished credit even though the rent's share of income is down to levels corresponding to the early 90s. Reforms of rental regulation must be undertaken with care, and it is important that the consumer is strong with clear ownership protection in the rental market. The housing market is not like any other market, and it is therefore important that the leasing system takes into account people's different life situations and access to capital. In the rental market, the legislation must also be designed according to social considerations and guarantee the long-term and predictable conditions of the tenant. A predictable indexation allows planning for both tenants and property owners. Public statistics are also required that provide the parties with knowledge of what is a reasonable rent level and thus protection against usury. Is the rent you pay reasonable? Did you know that you pay as much as those who live on the nice street a little further away? For the owned market there are plenty of ways to form an idea of the price picture. For the rented dwelling, this is a well-deserved secret. Sweden also has a growing group of people with poorer economies. You can have payment notes. You can be newcomers. In common, there is a need to establish itself on the housing market with very small funds. The need for a social housing policy is therefore very great. Boverket's 2014 Housing Market Establishment Barriers report showed how 77 per cent of real estate companies require the size of income in relation to the rent level – often three times the annual rent relative to gross income. 1.3 million people in our country cannot do this. Around 86 per cent of property owners do not accept current rental debts, 72 per cent require good references and 27 per cent of companies say no to rent applicants with payment notes. Finally, 14% demand permanent employment. At the bottom of the housing market hierarchy are many new arrivals who have come to Sweden in recent years and who now count down the days to the end of the establishment period. To what extent will municipalities have to provide special solutions for this group because the government is in the process of being dealt with? To what extent is it reasonable to require caravan arrangements, purchased flats, rebuilt course yards and other creative and very expensive solutions from the municipalities? In the latest issue of Focus, I recounted the meeting that we residential spokespersons had in Almedalen with the major construction companies. At that meeting they said very clearly: we will not build for this group. If we do nothing from rich politics, something will still have to be done, because this situation does not disappear by itself. The use of social contracts by municipalities, where the municipality accounts for the contract via social services and rents out to residents who do not meet the cost themselves, is growing very quickly. The latest issue of Focus shows that the number has gone from 11,000 to 26,000 over a ten-year period. The Christian Democrats propose that some part of new production should be granted for housing social purposes. Sweden must have a social housing policy. In addition, there is a need for a major social policy study that can present several solutions. Housing allowance cannot be the only social housing policy. Those outside the housing market are growing, and they are further and further away. Sweden needs a social housing policy worthy of the name. More needs to be done in order for us to have a more accessible housing market, ranging from changes in taxes to seeing housing as part of our welfare. With this, I would like to express my support for reservati on 8.
i-3d4793c627777c51-16	Mr President, I would like to Allow me, for time winning, to endorse alliance reservation 8. Of course, we support all our reservations. Mr President, I would like to Sweden must have more housing. It's never been more important. Housing policy and the importance of more housing are one of Sweden's most important societal challenges. According to Boverket's forecast, 600,000 new homes are needed by 2025. To meet this need, major reforms of building and housing policies are needed. Forecasts for 2018, i.e. the year in which we are now, show, however, a declining building act, which is the last thing that Sweden needs, Mr President. Of course, growth and the functioning of the labour market are important things, but perhaps not the most important thing for the individual. But what are we seeing right now? We see young adults living at home with their parents and unable to leave home. We see older people who feel that they cannot sell their houses and move to a smaller and more suitable home because of lock-in effects. We see people who are divorced but can't move apart, and we see others who can't move where there's work. We also hear about companies that are thinking of moving from Sweden precisely because their employees cannot find a home. On all of this, the challenge of migration is also being addressed. Mr President, I would like to When we discuss the motion report on rental rights here today, it is clear to us who live in rental law, that the regulations and systems that we have built up around rental law have created major problems. Once upon a time, rented accommodation was an option for those who quickly and easily needed to find a place to live. Today we see that it is exactly the opposite: it is the rented accommodation that is difficult to access through decade long queues and sluggish systems. This, Mr President, is not sustainable if rental rights are to be a central part of our housing portfolio in the future as well. I note that more and more people realise that this needs to change. Among other things, the Tenants' Association has appointed a rental commission. It is clearly recognised that the current model is flawed and that the system needs development. I welcome this. What concerns me, however, is that the representatives of the left-wing parties have too one-sided a focus on precisely the distribution of housing. But the distribution of housing is not the primary problem. The problem in Sweden today, Mr President, is that too little housing is being built. It is regrettable that the government does not share this view, but ignores the regulations on the housing market that actually marginalise the status of rental rights and hamper housing construction in general. From the left, voices are often heard that the policy of the Alliance is a threat to rental law, while at the same time defending today's dysfunctional systems. Mr President, I would like to It is precisely today's system that has contributed to the long-term marginalisation of rental rights. It is today's system that has created decaden-long housing queues. A system that leads to black contracts and huge housing queues, Mr President, is not something to be defended. I would like to appeal to my red-green colleagues: dare to start questioning disproving truths and admit that we must take steps to protect rental rights! Mr President, I would like to We have in Sweden a deeply dysfunctional housing market, where political regulations of various kinds have for too long made it difficult for people to both own their housing and get access to a rental agreement. Sweden has the most regulated housing market in the EU. It is no coincidence that Sweden also has one of the biggest problems and one of the biggest housing challenges. However, the most remarkable thing, Mr President, is that the current government has basically completely abdicated itself from its responsibility to create the conditions for increased housing construction. Suggestions for more homes shine with their absence. This does not stand, Mr President. It is clear that a new government is required if we are to overcome the lack of housing throughout Sweden.
i-3d4793c627777c51-26	Mr President, I would like to In this debate, I would like to highlight the Housing Act, which the Swedish Democrats' reservation No 24 refers to. It is about the possibility for municipalities and county councils to buy a right-of-occupancy apartment in a right-of-occupancy association. Under current legislation, a right-of-occupancy association cannot prevent a municipality or county council from buying a right-of-occupancy apartment. This has some consequences for those who have a right-of-occupancy apartment in a right-of-occupancy association. You may not know who is in the property and to what extent. Since it is a municipality that owns one of the apartments, you do not know exactly to which it is rented out. It is also not known how much turnover there is on tenants in one of the apartments in one's property. At the same time, it is not known to what extent these tenants are prepared to take responsibility in the association and for the property. A lot of people in Sweden have bought a right-of-occupancy apartment. You have a desire to be able to choose the home that you find more interesting yourself. You want to have the opportunity to influence both the property and your own home. You can also contribute in an association in order to keep down the costs of having a dwelling. You can help in joint shoveling and cleaning of stairs and be actively involved in board work and the like to keep costs down. This is of course something that is very much affected if a municipality goes in and buys some of the apartments of the Housing Association. This means that you get a less active part of the association. What is very strange about this legislation is that the right-of-occupancy associations are being deprived of the right to self-determination when it comes to who buys a dwelling. It cannot therefore be affected; under this legislation, the municipalities cannot be refused to buy. Of course, this has a major impact. Another problem with municipalities and county councils buying residential apartments is that it has a market impact on house prices. There are very many municipalities that have spent an extreme amount of money, several million SEK, on buying these homes. The Boverket housing market survey shows that in recent years there has been a doubling of the number of municipalities that choose to do this in order to arrange housing in the municipality. The background to this is perhaps the large number of asylum seekers who applied to Sweden in 2015 but also in the coming years and the large number of people who have been granted a residence permit in Sweden. The instruction law adopted on 1 March 2016 requires municipalities to accept a certain proportion of newly arrived immigrants through a quota. There you have a housing responsibility. This is probably one reason why we have the situation we have today. The Swedish Democrats have put forward a series of proposals to overcome the problems that arise when municipalities enter and buy housing in this way. We suggest that the board of a right-of-occupancy association should be able to refuse a municipality to purchase a right-of-occupancy right of residence in the association. However, this does not mean that the Swedish democrats completely say no to a municipality being able to buy a right-of-occupancy apartment, but it should be up to the association to decide. A right-of-occupancy association that chooses to allow the sale of a right-of-occupancy right of residence to a municipality should also be able to take out higher rents from the municipality, since the municipality is not involved in the administrative work of having a right-of-occupancy association. This could benefit associations that choose to still allow some form of sale. We also propose that an investigation should be set up to review the entire law on home purchases and, above all, to look at whether a broker should be forced to announce when a municipality is in a bidding process, so that you know that the municipality is in the bidding process. It may also be possible to limit municipal purchases to only take place when there is a fixed price for a dwelling. In order to find better solutions for the right-of-occupancy law and the negative consequences we have seen in this area, we propose these three measures. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to endorse reservation 19, which deals with overcrowding. The Swedish Democrats have put forward a proposal that the property owners should be able to regulate how many people live in a property. Today, there is an opportunity to enter it in the contract, but not so that it is legally binding. It is today very difficult for a property owner to control how many people live in the property. This affects property owners in several ways. On the other hand, you have no overview of who lives there, and it means higher wear and tear. It also has a great impact on the individual. We see how overcrowding has increased in society. This affects, among other things, study opportunities. Neighbors have no control over who lives in the property and move in the stairwell. This obviously means a deterioration in integration and other social problems. The police, social services and housing companies also testify to an extensive black trade in rental contracts as organised activities. There is an alternative housing agency in Sweden today. For the municipalities too, overcrowding is very difficult, because you cannot have good planning conditions for how a residential area will develop. In a short time, the number of residents in a residential area can double. On the other hand, no housing has been built. This, of course, impairs municipal service. For these reasons, among other reasons, the Swedish Democrats are in favour of reservations 19 and 24.
i-3d4793c627777c51-38	Mr President, I would like to Committee friends! We see an increasingly split Sweden, where many for too long have queued to get rental apartments. At the same time, price developments in the market for owned dwellings have led to strong measures that prevent households from borrowing money in order to own a dwelling or buy a right-of-occupancy apartment. Amortization requirements and mortgage rates have been introduced, and this means that families who would have liked to own their homes have to get in line with hundreds of others to difficult and expensive rental apartments. Then, on the other hand, there is the hopeless situation that the City Mission describes here in Stockholm and also in Malmö and Gothenburg: Thousands of children grow up in families with no fixed address. These are not voice-strong people that anyone commits to lobbing and running opinion for. It is not a target group that the parties plan to direct their messages and mailings to ahead of the elections. But in a decent society where we take care of each other, there should be elements of a social housing policy that lowers the thresholds to a first home – and then not in a way hidden in an overloaded municipal social service where social contracts risk creating conflicts with the regular housing queue. Whether we are prepared to recognise the problem or not, we politicians must take responsibility for it and resolve it. The cleavage between those inside and those outside the housing market is our biggest challenge in housing policy. This situation will continue and escalate if we do not fundamentally reform our housing policy so that the apartments that are suitable for size, standard and low rent are available. Then the solution is to build more but above all to get the migration chains going. Mr President, I would like to The renting is perhaps the biggest building barrier we have to deal with. This is a strong contributory factor in low mobility and in the fact that we have lock-in effects. With a reformed leasing system introducing free leasing in new production as an alternative to presumption rents, the range of rental rights will increase again. With more free renting, the issue of the right of veto in negotiations on presumption rents will not be considered. We have called for this in our reservation 4, but I do not support it today. Today's system of collective bargaining is not fair. To quote the CEO of a municipal housing company in Skåne that I met yesterday: There is one party who can only say no without their own responsibility. The Center Party also wants to see a transition to more market-oriented rentals in the existing stock. However, it must not go beyond possession protection or create a situation where there is no protection against rent increases for those groups that would then not be able to afford to stay. In a recent report, the Swedish National Audit Office has succeeded in killing some myths about the connection between the utility value system and income development. The report concludes that if you move into a rental agreement with a favourable use value rent, you work less and only get lower income development due to your choice of dwelling than you would otherwise have had. It's startling. But the government's response to this that came on 1 March is a non-reply – a tiring repetition of its confidence in the current order and a single long tribute to the excellence of housing subsidies. Mr President, I would like to We know that in the long term, many people would like and could afford to own their homes. It is unfortunate that it is only possible to create owner-occupied apartments in new production. For the first time buyer it becomes very expensive and difficult compared to being able to buy a dwelling and stay in an area where you enjoy and continue to do a housing career there. A better integration measure in the housing market does not exist, Mr President, than to mix rental apartments with residential and owner-occupied apartments so that one can voluntarily become the owner of a dwelling in the same staircase as neighbors who continue to rent their dwelling. That kind of three-dimensional building is not possible today, and the Center Party would like to change that. We do not see a new wave of transformation as a result of this, but we believe that ownership apartments would be a way to get the stock back on track and increase engagement with a new self-home movement in the million-dollar programmes and in more modern garden cities. That is why I am in favour of the Center Party's reservation 26. Mr President, I would like to The Alliance broadly shares the view of the need for reforms in housing policy, and as soon as we have regained power, we in the Center Party will want to see cross-block housing talks that produce results – unlike those we experienced at this time two years ago, when the government was ill prepared, changed ministers in the meantime and were totally unwilling to discuss real reforms that could make a difference. Second-hand rental needs to be simplified. Above all, it would be an opportunity for many people who live large but for various reasons cannot or do not want to move to get an extra income to finance their current housing. It may be older single people who, with a simpler reconstruction, can give a space in the villa to a student, a new arrival or someone who has become acutely homeless. It may be someone who owns a right-of-occupancy apartment that you do not exploit but you do not want to get rid of. Unfortunately, it is still the case that many of our homes are not fully used. The Center Party believes that some of the housing crisis can be addressed by housing that already exists. That is why, Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment No 8 tabled by the Alliance.
i-3d4793c627777c51-51	Mr President, I would like to Despite the fact that very many homes are being built in Sweden today, more than in a very long time, the housing shortage continues to be large. It's a restriction on people's freedom. Soon half a million young people will do nothing but yearn to leave home. How difficult can it be to decide that we should have a housing policy that actually builds on the number of people living here? Apparently, it is difficult for several parties in the Riksdag to take a stand for it. It's not for me. I have a sister who wanted to move to Stockholm to study. She was very excited and happy to have that chance. But finding a place to live was an almost impossible mission. She had not expected that the big problem of getting through the training would not be the exams without the accommodation. She had to hang out on couches with friends and for a short time as a resident of a person until she received a time-limited, overpriced secondary contract in a small room in a corridor. Finally, she had to drop out and leave Stockholm. There was no way to find a home. She never completed her studies at Stockholm University. In the housing movements of the right parties, it is only higher rents, privatisations of both planning and housing construction, sales and even greater responsibility placed on the shoulders of the parents that will solve the situation. It's not freedom. It's a betrayal of all the young people who want to leave home or, like my sister, move to study. Since 2000, 200 000 cheap rental apartments have been converted into expensive residential apartments throughout Sweden. Imagine that we had 130 000 more cheap rentals in Stockholm today! What was the situation then? The queues had been much shorter, and it would have been much easier to find a place to live. In Upplands-Bro, house prices have increased by 2,500 per cent in 20 years. Wage developments over the same period have not been close to this. That means we're getting less housing for the money today. For me, it is the opposite of modernisation, a higher standard of living and a better quality of life. When prices run off, it also sits on the rents. We therefore need to move from a fully privatised housing market to a housing policy for all. It needs to be brought closer to welfare policy. To ensure that there are enough housing, be it a joint project across generational and municipal boundaries because we know that welfare systems based on each child should be burdened with the burden of saving money throughout their lives for an effort in a home, to a university education or to a health insurance scheme are not equal. Not everyone will have that money. Is it not more reasonable that we should all help each other, just as we do in all other welfare areas, organise this together and use common resources such as taxes or government mortgages to ensure that the housing shortage is removed? Instead of each of us borrowing as huge sums as we do today, creating greater social exclusion and overcrowding. Today, inequality in the housing market is very large. Lonely people can live on huge areas at a relatively low cost while others have to squeeze into small areas at very high rents, a little depending on when they got their dwelling, what contacts they have and how old they were when they were moving out. This is a very unfair order, and I think it requires some redistribution to correct it. Those who live in the most expensive houses in the richest Stockholm municipalities will have the opportunity to contribute a little more to ensure that no children are ever evicted and that young people can move to their dream education. Then everyone can get good housing standards, and then we can get a housing building that is less dependent on individual economic cycles and actually focuses on the need. Mr President, I would like to There is a great shortage of labour in the construction industry today, basically because we do not have a policy of high construction over time but are just in the hands of the economic cycle. Many workers then fall away when it goes down, and it will be difficult to regain the skills when it goes up. The strange thing is that the government continues to have a ROT contribution to that decent kitchens owned by primarily wealthy Stockholmers should be able to be renovated, when there is a shortage of people who can build new rentals. It is, in fact, an incomprehensible policy. And labour shortages, in turn, drive prices up. I say as construction worker Henrik Samdahl said to Expressen, "The entrepreneurs dug gold, billionaires with free materials and higher hourly charges." In our pay envelopes, nothing was visible. This at the same time as the lack of labour to build kindergartens and housing made the bids few and the price tag therefore higher. It was simply more lucrative for construction companies to root renovate. The ROT grant awarded only in Dalarna last year corresponds to 192 preschools with a total of 960 departments. I really have to ask myself if it had not been a better way to use the money than to let them go to additional patios for some families. Mr President, I would like to Thanks to the investment support introduced by the Left Party together with the government, over 10 000 cheap rentals have been built for young people, older people, students, families and pensioners. With a clear political focus, we have ensured that it has been built to allow more people to leave home. More people should have the opportunity to move away from the large villa that may require lawn mowing that you cannot cope with. More people should be able to move to dream education. A number of municipalities in Sweden have built with these investment aid: Karlshamn, Halmstad, Ängelholm, Umeå, Vännäs, Malå. It will take all day if I'm going to stand here and list all the municipalities that have made use of investment support, some of them for the first time. But note well that the right parties in the Riksdag, including the Swedish Democrats, want to abolish support for the construction of cheap housing. They want to demolish these homes; they do not want them to be built. They are against the construction of cheap rentals. Then they want to increase the rents of the dwellings that exist to levels that are higher than today's. They want to introduce so-called market rents. The Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats are the greatest horrors of young applicants for housing. How will my sister find a place to live if the subsidies are abolished in the next parliamentary term? A vote on some of the right parties in the autumn elections will double the rents in the country. You will have to pay $15,000 for a three instead of the $7,000 today. You will have to pay $10,000 for a two instead of today's 5,000. You will have to pay 8 000 SEK each month for one instead of today's 4 000. Think about it when you cast your vote this fall. And not only that – support for the construction of cheap rentals will disappear if there is a right-wing government this autumn. In Sweden of the Right, ideology is ahead of your need for a home for you and your family. I am sorry about this. On the other hand, a vote on the left this autumn will lead to more rental apartments that ordinary knegare can afford.
i-3d4793c627777c51-72	Mr President, I would like to Nooshi Dadgostar uses almost eight minutes to tell us about the policy of the alliance parties. You can thank him for that. Of course, she didn't stick entirely to the truth, but that's not what I was going to discuss right now in the first line. Instead, I thought I'd reach out and pay homage to the Left Party. There is a need for a party in the Swedish parliament that talks about the growing divides in society and about people who have difficulties, lack opportunities for income and livelihood and lack housing. It's a very sympathetic thought. There are parties on the alliance side who are also happy to talk about this. A few months ago, the Swedish National Audit Office released a report on the leasing system and how it works today. The Swedish National Audit Office says, among other things, that the current leasing system affects labour supply in such a way that people who live in the cheapest rentals tend to work to a lesser extent. This ultimately leads to further income gaps. We have a new poverty which comes from the fact that the way we set rents leads to poverty traps. If you have a feeling for these vulnerable groups, it should be natural to think that this is a major problem. I would like to ask Nooshi Dadgostar if she does not think it is a serious concern when we have lock-in effects and poverty traps in a large part of our housing stock.
i-3d4793c627777c51-76	Mr President, I would like to The housing shortage does not affect a small, specific group. If you are an average wage earner in Stockholm today, you do not have an effort to buy a dwelling. This is a problem that affects the whole of society and not just a small, vulnerable group. Today you have to pay so much for one or two in the big cities that you probably won't be able to pay off the debt you take on throughout your life. This is serious, but I do not think it is being taken seriously. I note that Ola Johansson and also the other bourgeois parties – I have read their housing movements – are fighting a war against the cheap rentals. They're to be demolished, they're to be removed, they're not to be built. Ola Johansson says that if rentals are too cheap, it creates bad morale for the workers out there. That's what Ola Johansson says, and it's a cartridge show. If low rents are bad, we should also increase the price of food, education and health care. In this way people are whipped to work 12 hours a day to afford all these goods. I believe that this is not true. When the Swedish National Audit Office was in the committee, we also learned that they distance themselves from the use of the measurement they have made in a more structural way. Ola Johansson was perhaps also present when we asked questions about what conclusions can be drawn from this. The Swedish National Audit Office felt that in principle no conclusions could be drawn from the small and specific measurement they had made in a specific municipality. I suggest that Ola Johansson does not use this as something to spread and apply to the whole system. I think it's important that all people can afford to live.
i-3d4793c627777c51-80	Mr President, I would like to It is not I who say this, but it is the National Audit Office that states that there is a risk that we will get a poverty trap in the type of housing stock we have. I think we can and should discuss the fact that there are housing situations that lead to this. The Left should devote more time to problematizing about this. I cannot help but respond to what Mr Nooshi says about the Centre Party wanting to help tear down apartments. I wonder where she got it from. It seems completely out of the air. She also says that with the logic of the Center Party and the Alliance, we would raise the price of food. No, that's not what it's about. The price of food is to some extent equal to the cost of producing the food. This is possibly where the difference lies in the way we see it. Nooshi Dadgostar completely ignores the fact that there is a reason for the lack of housing and that this reason is linked to the lack of a wallet to pick money out to pay the price to satisfy this. She also says that you can't just sit in the hands of the business cycle. What else do you have to put yourself in the hands of? What does that wallet look like, this voluptuous horn that the Left Party's double housing subsidies are supposed to be pulled out of? Where is this?
i-3d4793c627777c51-84	Mr President, I would like to We believe that housing policy is needed to remove the housing shortage. That's what sets me apart from Ola Johansson. Ola Johansson has a high level of confidence in the market and that it will fix this – we don't. We believe that we must have a plan to eliminate the housing shortage in Sweden. It will not happen by itself. I am pleased that Ola Johansson is raising the issue of poverty trap. A poverty trap is created if you lower people's wages and raise their rents. This is what Ola Johansson will go to elections on. This is what he will stand and say in streets and squares all over Sweden: Your wages will be lowered, and we will raise your rents! Then you can stand there and explain how it shouldn't create a poverty trap, Ola Johansson, because that's exactly what it does. If spending exceeds the salary you have, you have big problems. That is what poverty is. This is your policy, Ola Johansson. It's hard to answer what you're saying. You're saying the rent should be doubled. This is what market rent means. We have measurements on it, so many. And the salaries are to be passed here in Parliament by Ola Johansson, because they are to be reduced. Why don't you go outside and talk about how this goes together and how it doesn't create poverty? In my ears it creates poverty, and I do not believe in this path. I want to reduce the gaps in Sweden. I want people to be able to choose and choose among cheap rentals in Östermalm, Malmö and Umeå. We're supposed to have a width, and people are supposed to be able to choose. If prices are at these levels, you will never be able to do so. If Ola Johansson becomes Minister of Housing, people will lie homeless on the streets because the rents are so high and the wages so low. Right? Isn't that right?
i-3d4793c627777c51-90	Mr President, I would like to The left-wing vice-party leader, high-income winner Nooshi Dadgostar, has now stood and shouted from the speaker's seat: How difficult can it be? Then I'd like to say that those words are actually my line. That's Caroline Szyber's, Ola Johansson's and Robert Hannahs's line. The Left Party is a support party to the government, and the Left Party has therefore voted in favour of the absence of housing policy that we have seen in the last three years. It is the Left Party that has made this possible. Nooshi Dadgostar is talking about his sister moving to Stockholm. Then you can begin by saying that it is the red-green parties that have the power in Stockholm. And not only that: Nooshi Dadgostar's party is responsible for housing management in the City of Stockholm. So it is me and my alliance colleagues who are going to ask the question: How difficult can it be? Then you can stand here and speak loudly and think that you can scream free from honesty and truth in the argumentation. We'll never get along there. But I would appreciate it if the Left Party could come up with its own positive proposal on how to get more housing in Sweden. What distinguishes the Left Party's housing policy is not everything you are for, but everything you are against. Again, it is you who are supporting the government. It is you who push through the government's budgets. Then it is not credible to claim that the Left Party has been co-responsible for everything that is good, while there is no responsibility at all for things that have fallen completely. It is not right, and it is above all not honest.
i-3d4793c627777c51-96	Mr President, I would like to I think it is cocky for Mats Green to stand here after two bourgeois terms of office, where the construction of tenancy was completely disrupted after you had removed the investment aid. You had 18,000 or 19,000 homes built per year. You abolished housing policy in your years. On the other hand, we have had 72 000 completed dwellings in the past year, and last year it was 53 000. If this for Mats Green is the same as no housing policy and nothing has happened since the eight poor bourgeois years, I think it is rather cocky. You want to go back to a policy that gave 15,000 homes a year. We are now building more homes in one year than you did in two terms. Isn't there a big difference between the right and left in housing policy? I think it's incredibly cocky for Mats Green to stand here and blame himself. You transformed 30,000 public housing units in Stockholm during your term of office. We have 30 000 fewer low-cost rentals in Stockholm. It is clear that it is incredibly difficult to reverse the ship when you have cleared so many cheap rental apartments from the Stockholm market, which has created the great segregation we have in Stockholm today. Prices are literally rushing, and no normal wage earner can now enter Stockholm city centre or even anywhere in the municipality. It is important that we change housing policy. We need continued investment aid also for the next term of office. We also need government loans in order to maintain a good build-up rate during an economic cycle that is not as strong as it is now.
i-3d4793c627777c51-102	Mr President, I would like to Again Nooshi Dadgostar stands here and paints a very gloomy picture of Stockholm. This is a picture that I agree with in terms of housing policy. But it is actually Nooshis party that is responsible for housing policy in Stockholm. It is therefore not in the Swedish Parliament that such questions should be asked, but at the Left Party group meetings at Stockholm City Hall. That's where you should ask the question: How hard can it be? That's where you should ask your questions, preferably with an equal tone of voice. It should also be remembered that no one in the industry wants investment aid. I may also find it strange that the Left Party is fighting for us to drive billions into private construction companies' pockets. The investment support was the reason for the decline in housing construction during the first years of the alliance. There was a small financial crisis, of which most have heard and which we are still dealing with in Sweden. That's the reason. When, then, did the needle money that the investment aid is anyway start to be phased out? Actually, it was already before 2006. This was done in budgets supported by the Left Party, which now supports this government's absence of housing policy. Nooshi Dadgostar says we need a new housing policy. It is really up to me to say that, because she is the embodiment of the totally unsuccessful housing policy that has gone out on those whom she says she wants to protect, that is, the knegarna. Again, I would like to say that the high-income recipient Nooshi Dadgostar should go directly from the hall to Stockholm City Hall and ask: What are you doing? How hard can it be? These are the questions that should be asked.
i-3d4793c627777c51-108	Mr President, I would like to It is fun that Mats Green wants to hold a Stockholm debate in the Swedish Parliament. Not everything happens in Stockholm, Mats Green! We have turned the whole Stockholm policy around. Never has it ever been sold for so many rental apartments in Stockholm as today. When you destroyed, sold out and reformed the leases, we are now building new ones. It has not built this much ever in the period that Mats Green's party colleagues ruled Stockholm. The time of the Moderates in Stockholm City has been a disaster for the housing market. That's why it looks like it does. We are trying to change this. We will also achieve good results, but of course it takes time to build new rental apartments. It's important. I would also like to point out that there are great differences between us. Voters need to know what your policy is – that they will have to pay twice as much rent. You want to remove the support that exists. The aid is being used; it is remarkable that Mats Green goes untruthful about this. He says no one has applied for investment aid. It's over! 10 000 rental apartments have been built with investment aid. Then you can deny it if you want to have such a debate. It is surely denial that embodies housing policy in the bourgeois corner, where one only engages in privatising and selling out rather than directing, building or investing. Of course it matters if you spend money on something. Otherwise, we could have abolished state budgets. Maybe that's what Mats Green is aiming for. Then we do not have to spend money on school, education or health care, because they do not work with Mats Green's logic. But I don't believe that. I think we need loans and investment aid. We need to make it easier for municipalities to buy land and control the construction of their own land. We need to ensure that there is a coherent housing policy, so that much more rental apartments are built than today.
i-3d4793c627777c51-114	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 8. For time-winning, we in the Liberals are not in favour of our other reservations, but of course we are fully behind them as well. Liberals see that the Swedish housing market is not working. There's too little building, and the lines are too long. Those without social capital or waiting time do not enter the rental market. Those without financial capital cannot afford to buy. Class trips already stay in the father's twig of the parents. According to the Youth Barometer, only one in ten young people in Sweden today feel that housing policy has contributed to a positive development. It is a strong understatement to all Swedish parliamentary parties. The Swedish housing market is in crisis, and government policy costs taxpayers billions of dollars through unnecessary building subsidies and investment aid, as it is called. They give very little results. All the homes that the Left Party has stood here bragging about and that the Green Party and the Social Democrats will be bragging about had been built anyway. If you find any politician who says they had not been built, it is a sosse politician who wants to speak for the party and nothing else. It is very interesting that the Left Party is here talking about a relative moving to Stockholm. I met the central organisation of the Stockholm Student Union yesterday. They themselves say: Investment support has given zero student housing in Stockholm. The investment support will provide zero student housing in Stockholm in the future. One might ask: Who is it that the policy of the Left Party favours? Well, the policy of the Left Party and the government favors rich builders who had built these homes anyway. The policy of the Left Party also benefits, because it wants to preserve the rental system that exists today, people with higher incomes and who are older and who live in the inner cities of big cities. In fact, they have subsidised rents by allowing people in suburbs to pay higher rents for them. A vote on the Left is therefore a vote for people who live in cheap rentals in inner cities and a vote for rich developers to get more money in their pockets – that's about it. But, Mr President, the housing crisis is not a natural law. A liberal housing market with more housing and more market offers a solution to today's problems. We can reduce exclusion and give more people the freedom to be the master of their own home. In fact, it means freedom to own one's own home. The Left Party could probably describe those who earn money from those who live in rental apartments in Sweden today as capitalists. I would like to mention three areas in which we Liberals will invest when the Alliance takes power in the autumn. The first is free renting in new production. The lease needs to be changed. The Swedish rent regulation is one of the strictest among OECD member countries. Sweden has received criticisms from the European Commission, the OECD, the IMF, the World Bank, the Financial Policy Council and even Göran Persson and others for this. The Social Democrats live in the world of dreams. You could ask yourself who's wrong. Is it the Social Democrats who are wrong, or is it the OECD, the IMF, the World Bank, the Council of Finance and Göran Persson? One of you is wrong. I dare to guess that it is the Social Democrats who are wrong in this situation. What do we in the Liberals want to do with the rental market when it comes to new production? We want the rentals to be agreed between the lessor and the lessor within the framework of the presumption rent system. We want the presumption rents to be valid without a shorter time limit. We want the free rental to be combined with a strong possession protection and a clear and predictable indexation throughout the period that the tenant chooses to stay. We also want public rental statistics, so that people living in the suburbs can actually understand that the policy of the Left Party means subsidised rents in the inner cities. These solutions and these proposals put forward by the Liberals are not entirely new and do not come from our own workshop of ideas. They come from the European Commission. They're from the IMF. They come from the OECD. They come from Göran Persson. This is also inspired by our neighbouring countries Norway, Finland, Denmark and Iceland, which have market rents in parts of their rental portfolio. In fact, they do not have the same housing shortage, and people do not live on the street and do not sleep in tents, as Nooshi Dadgostar and the Left Party just painted. Mr President, I would like to The second is that we want to reform the utility value system for increased mobility. More flexible leasing creates greater diversity in the range and makes more local rental markets work better. That's what all the experts say– Nooshi Dadgostar is definitely not an expert. Therefore, the utility value system needs to be reformed and to a greater extent reflect consumer demand. Today, the population of Rinkeby, Rosengård and Angered are subsidising the rents of those living on Östermalm and in Örgryte. That is totally unacceptable. We Liberals therefore believe that the situation and quality must have a much greater impact on the use-value system. It is perfectly reasonable that, for example, a centrally located apartment has a higher rent than an apartment located a longer walk from the nearest metro station, nearest train station or nearest bus station. If you want to live in the inner cities, you can pay a little more for your accommodation than those who live in Rinkeby, Angered and Rosengård do. This is surely the message to those whom Nooshi and the Left Party claim to protect and help. Mr President, I would like to The third concerns the million-dollar programmes. One of Sweden's biggest challenges in the coming years is exclusion. In the latest edition of the Outsidership map, from 2012, which the Liberals were involved in starting, the number of alienation areas in Sweden was estimated at 186. There is a great risk that the number has grown since then. My native city of Tynnered in Gothenburg is classified by the police as a particularly vulnerable area. Why? What characterises these areas today? You can look at what the experts say. The million-dollar programmes have been characterised by the existence of a single form of housing: rental rights. Thanks to the policy of the Left Party, the Social Democrats and the Green Party, they are greatly overpriced, compared to what it is like in the inner cities. It simply costs as much to live there as it costs to live in other areas. And these areas are flawed from a safety point of view. The people living in these areas also deserve security. To overcome all these problems, we need a broad range of measures. I shall mention one in this area. One of the important measures is to promote the creation of more owner-occupied apartments – and more rental apartments and more residential apartments, of course. There should also be the possibility of conversions from rental apartments within the existing stock to owner-occupied apartments. A prosperous housing market requires a mix of housing forms and villas in different locations and in different price ranges. It increases, in our view, the choice of accommodation and can help to make areas more attractive. This is particularly important in our suburbs, in the million-dollar programmes, where the range of accommodations is today very one-sided. I can give you a clear example. In Tynnered, from which I come and which is today a particularly vulnerable area, housing has in some parts been converted into residences. And, you know, that's where the absolutely most safe, most prosperous and most satisfied Tynnereds residents live. So there is a reasonable sense of mixed housing and mixed areas. Mr President, I would like to Liberal reforms will contribute to a more dynamic housing market, with fewer people getting excluded and more people feeling the sense of freedom and pride in entering their own first home.
i-3d4793c627777c51-135	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 9. I forgot to do it in my speech, so I am doing it now. But then I can also take the opportunity to ask Robert a question. Robert! How much higher rents should people pay in your Sweden?
i-3d4793c627777c51-137	Mr President, I would like to People who live in the suburbs and who you claim to protect will not have to pay the same rents as those who live in the inner cities. To be honest, exclusion will grow in these areas if they are not allowed to compete in any way – and that is with the rents. The answer to your question is simply that we will have the same type of price development in the owned market as we have today, but there will be more shifts. In my world, you shouldn't have any rent increases in particularly vulnerable areas. The rents will be raised in the inner cities. But it is your policy that means that people who have higher incomes and who live in inner cities and who are older have lower rents and that suburbs must not compete with their prices. What's your answer to that? Do you think it is fair rents in the Swedish suburbs today, compared to what it is like in the inner cities? Do you think that these people – it is usually working class – have to pay good rents compared to those who live in the inner cities and have subsidised rents?
i-3d4793c627777c51-139	Mr President, I would like to Robert Hannah is like another world. Do you think there are empty apartments in the suburbs? There's an eight-year line to an apartment in Alby. This means that whoever pays by far the most in the sex, which consists of half a million people, gets the apartment. It's your system. I ask again, because you could not answer earlier: How much higher rents do you think it will be? According to the measurements made, my voters in Fittja, in Botkyrka, south of Stockholm, would pay twice as much. This means that they can barely pay the rent at the current wage level. Then I would like to remind Robert Hannah that he also wants to legislate on cuts in wages. Then I ask again: How much higher will rents be when we have eight years' queue? And it's the richest person, the one who pays by far the most, who gets the apartment. What levels will we land on?
i-3d4793c627777c51-142	Mr President, I would like to Let us be very clear: those who pay the lowest rents today are those who have higher incomes. They are those whom you, with the policy of the Left Party, defend. Everyone in this room and everyone in this house is fully aware that we have a housing shortage in Sweden. But the rents in the Swedish suburbs are overpriced compared to those in the inner cities. That's it-- that's a fact. Paying 6 000 for a two in Frölunda, a suburb of Gothenburg, while someone else pays 6 000 for a two in Haga, in central Gothenburg, is unfair. You don't want to see this injustice. Let's talk about the false claim of lower wages! Magdalena Andersson, Finance Minister, was out a week ago talking about saving SEK 37 billion for welfare if women with immigrant background work to the same extent as women with Swedish background. The difference in unemployment between women with foreign background and women with Swedish background is close to 30 per cent. They don't get into the labour market. You're standing here, Nooshi Dadgostar, telling us to lower wages. No – we will give jobs to people who are unemployed, so that they have their own income and can feel the freedom of having a job and having their own money in their wallets. We want to create a labour market in which people who have come here also have an honest chance. On this we save SEK 37 billion. Do you understand the huge sums that Magdalena Andersson and the Liberals want to save and want to be able to invest in welfare? It is not true that we want to reduce wages. We want to create more jobs by opening up the labour market to more people.
i-3d4793c627777c51-148	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. There are strong reasons to protect rental rights. The rental right allows for good housing for those who do not want to go into debt or worry about interest rates or repayments. The rental right offers flexible accommodation for those who want to be able to take that education or work in that locality quickly without having to buy a home. It is a long-term accommodation and a safe accommodation. Housing is currently at a high level. It may seem too low, but it is still a high level — higher than in many years. This is good, because the rental right is an important form of lease. Overall, housing construction is almost on record levels, although it is hard to believe when listening to some of the debate. The possibility of requesting a rental contract is good today. Over 250 000 more people have during their term of office had a job to go to and a salary to be able to pay the rent with. The proportion of permanent contracts has increased. We believe in wage formation for increased wages. We believe that this is how Sweden can compete. There should also be order in the labour market. All these pieces are important in order to be able to carry a rental contract. Mr President, I would like to The report presents a large number of ongoing work within the Government Office, broken down by assignment to authorities and investigations. This work, like the previous government, has spent some time on this. In the report, we are taking a stand for a rental system with a utility value system that allows households to live in the whole city, or in the whole municipality, even in areas that can be considered more attractive than others. The Government appointed the study on leasing in new production, whose task was to review the current model of leasing for new production of rental rights. The study has proposed measures to create better conditions for building rental apartments in areas with housing shortages. This is now being prepared within the Government Office. Boverket has been tasked with monitoring developments in the secondary market. Boverket must make suggestions on how a periodic follow-up should be carried out in order to be able to monitor the development over time. The Tenant's investigation has also suggested that the Private Rental Act should be repealed, that the separate provision on renting should be included in the Rental Act and that tenants should be given the opportunity to contact the Tenancy Board to request a refund of rent. Opinions on the investigation have recently been received, and the whole thing is being prepared within the Government Office. Mr President, I would like to For six years I have been following the debate on rental rights in committee. Every debate has raised the issue of market rents. Representatives of the Alliance have affirmed that they do not advocate any market rents. But does it really last longer? At their meeting, the Moderates recently decided that they would like to introduce more free renting in the entire housing stock. In plain language, this means that we want to introduce market rents, even though it has been established time and again that it is a bad idea, which leads to higher rents but not to more housing. A report produced by Sabo last year, with the help of the consultancy company Tyrén, concluded that the main reason for insufficient new production of rental rights is not a lack of free renting but limited construction competition and high construction costs. According to the report, the introduction of market rents would mean that a large proportion of households could expect rent increases and that more people would need housing allowance. That market rents would lead to higher housing costs for most tenants was also confirmed by the Financial Policy Council's report for 2017. It showed that if this type of proposal were to become a reality, especially single households and parents could expect rent increases of thousands of dollars a month. In 2015, the consulting company Ramböll also investigated the issue of market rents in Stockholm County and concluded that the abolition of the current rental system would entail a social cost of at least SEK 2 billion per year in the Stockholm region alone. In total, the tenants' payment to the property owners in the county would increase by over SEK 17 billion per year. This would have a negative impact on the Swedish economy when household purchasing power and consumption decrease. This is an extremely serious question whether this would also be a new government policy. At present, we believe that there is no reason to change the renting model that we have. There must be long-term, security and predictability also for the person who rents a dwelling. However, in order to secure the leasing system in the long term, a work is required to continue developing the rental right as a modern, accessible form of housing that fits the different stages of life.
i-3d4793c627777c51-165	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. Free or freer – that is clearly the question, at least if we read the reservations of the bourgeois parties at the beginning of this report. The housing shortage is a fact. It is a growing problem, the reason for which is that we have built too little for too long. The current government, led by Minister for Housing Peter Eriksson, takes responsibility for this and ensures that more is now being built in Sweden than has been done since the million-dollar programme days. In 2017, 64,000 new dwellings were started. Around 48,000 of them were in apartment blocks. Of these, about 10 000 have been built with reasonable rents thanks to government investment aid. We are in the midst of the greatest community building of our time. What society do we want, and what society do we need to build? What we are building today will work well in 100 years' time. We need to take into account climate change and sea level rises and make sure that we build together, and not separate, the Sweden we want. Mr President, I would like to What kind of society do we want? It goes without saying to the Green Party. We want a sustainable society, a society where the right to shelter is also respected. We need a sustainable society both ecologically, economically and socially, and for the latter it is diversity that is essential to create a sustainable society. We need a society with a mix of people with different backgrounds, income levels and dreams and, linked to today's debate on rental rights, a mixed range of housing. We need a diversity in the housing stock, a mix of rentals, tenant-owners' apartments, terraced houses, villas, cooperative rentals, collectives, generational housing, construction and housing communities and preferably new, innovative solutions and various forms of leasing that cater for how they want to live. In order to create a mixed housing stock, we believe in the densification of already occupied land, for example building terraced houses in the right-of-occupancy form in existing residential areas or why not multi-residential buildings in the country of the classic villa carpets? We need to make it easier for people to move within their residential area or neighbourhood, and then with new forms of leasing. With densification of land already in use, we also use the land in the best way. With a densification of existing areas, we create diversity and counteract segregation. Diversity is the key to the sustainable society of the future – diversity of both tenure forms and people. Mr President, I would like to One of the challenges we are facing right now, on which I believe we fully agree in this House, is that we must ensure that the building act we have achieved is maintained. For several years to come, we need to build up the housing deficit that has been growing for a long time. But for that we need the political will, probably cross-block talks, and not what we have seen in this House so far, which has been most of the fuss – arguing about things that do not create the long-term rules for the industry. We need to make better use of the existing stock. Swedes are one of the world's population that has the most square metre of living space per person. At the same time, the overcrowding of our society is increasing. We who have somewhere to live live live very large, while those who do not have their own contract live less and less. Making better use of the existing stock is partly about creating incentives for us to share more, live together or share certain areas in a dwelling, and partly about creating better conditions for second-hand leasing of housing. It is easy to talk about that it should be easier to rent out. In this debate, the tenant is often forgotten. It is not just for those who rent out that we should improve. In every apartment there are people living, and the situation for them also needs to be improved — individuals whose security I actually care about. The Government has both commissioned Statskontoret to come up with proposals to improve and facilitate private leasing, and appointed an investigation to strengthen the tenant's position. We need to make sure that more people want to rent out their home, or part of their home, and that this is done in a way that is safe for the tenant as well. While we need to build more, we also need to ensure that the climate impact of the construction sector is reduced. We must ensure that the group currently outside the housing market is allowed to enter it, and more rental apartments with reasonable rents need to be built. On the other hand, we must not fall into the trap of building with lower quality in order to reduce the cost. Everything that is being built today will be built well. To meet the climate challenge we are facing, what we are building today needs to be built sustainably so that it can remain in a hundred years' time. Mr President, I would like to People who are currently outside the housing market need to be admitted. It is mainly about young people, students and new arrivals. We will counteract increased segregation and break the multigeneration non-predominance that is reality in several of the country's municipalities. While the Alliance is obviously arguing internally about whether or not they want to introduce free or free renting to benefit property owners, I, my party and the Red Green Government choose to try to solve the situation for those who stand without a home: students, young people, new arrivals and children. We need to resolve the situation for people who, like us, have the right to a roof over their heads. This is not about free or free renting. It is about freedom and confidence in the future for the individual.
i-3d4793c627777c51-182	Mr President, I would like to I have a more general question that I would like to ask Emma. The Left Party and the Social Democrats use this House, and refer to, a report written by Ramböll. It is called an independent report by an independent consultant. It just happens to be an order product from the Tenants' Association, which then went and recruited his chief economist from the same company, i.e. Ramböll. Can this be called an independent investigation by independent consultants? In addition, the whole rental market is not analysed, only costs and not revenues, among other things. My question to Emma Hult is: Is it Ramböll who should be the god from which to start when it comes to analysing the Swedish housing market or is it the European Commission, the Swedish National Audit Office, the World Bank, the OECD and other international and national institutes that are there to look at costs and how the housing market works or not?
i-3d4793c627777c51-185	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to whether it is an independent report or not, Robert Hannah and his bourgeois comrades sometimes wave reports produced by other organisations such as Property Owners, which are then claimed to be independent. I think we need to look at this widely and that we agree quite well that the supply does not increase automatically if you raise the price of a product that is lacking.
i-3d4793c627777c51-187	Mr President, I would like to The question was not really super-directed towards Emma Hult. Nevertheless, I think it makes sense and sense that Members of Parliament who come to this House do not use reports, which refer to costs and say that the world will end, which would not even be approved at a university. It is important that we from parliamentary parties as serious politicians use independent organisations, such as the European Commission, the OECD, the National Audit Office and the World Bank, when analysing the Swedish rental market. We shall not use party submissions that are ordered goods by a party on the housing market, which then recruits its chief economist from the same company. I think it should be rhymed and reasonable when we refer to statistics.
i-3d4793c627777c51-189	Mr President, I would like to It was sad that Robert Hannah had no question for me but asked my colleagues on the red-green side. I would have liked to have been able to answer questions about some of the things I discussed in the speaker's chair at the turn of the line. I can see that there are many wills on these issues. The Liberals have written a reservation that I had hoped the Liberals would mention, which Robert Hannah did not do in his speech. Robert Hannah refers to an investigation that the government has set up, which has produced results on how to strengthen the tenant's position and how to proceed with the investigation's proposals. I would much rather have stood here and discussed how to strengthen the tenant's position than take responsibility for what my colleagues have said earlier in the debate.
i-3d4793c627777c51-192	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that I have enormous respect for Emma Hult's commitment to housing policy. I know her as a committed and competent housing politician. However, I may find it regrettable that the minister you are standing here defending everywhere shines with his absence and his inaction. That is totally unacceptable, apart from the fact that it is totally unsustainable given the housing situation in all parts of Sweden today. But enough said about this. I can also say that it is remarkable, to put it mildly, that despite the worst housing crisis of 50-60 years, no government has done so little for decades to increase housing construction as the current one. That is totally unacceptable. I also know how frustrated the other government party, the Social Democrats, feels about this. Then I just want to say to them: it is you who are in charge of this government and who then have a responsibility to act. We've had housing policy discussions. They broke down because of the fact that all their sacred cows were kept under government control in housing policy. And no party, nor mine, can afford to remain with all the sacred cows in housing policy, given the situation. Is the Green Party, possibly as an opposition party after the next election, prepared to engage in broad housing policy deliberations to agree on how we can do as much as possible, not as little as possible, to resolve Sweden's housing crisis?
i-3d4793c627777c51-197	Mr President, I would like to It was mostly claims from Mats Green, but at the end there was at least one question. I think we have been quite clear that we would have liked to have seen that the housing policy talks that were conducted had continued so that a goal could be achieved. Mats Green wasn't in them, but maybe he'll be in if there's a new one. We need long-term rules of play here, and then we need to be many to agree on the policy we are taking forward. So yes, the Green Party is absolutely prepared to sit down again. But then probably Mats Green and his party need to dare raise the issues that are difficult for the Moderates. Let me respond to what Mats Green claims about the absence and inaction of Minister of Housing Peter Eriksson. Don't you read the paper in the morning, Mats? Don't you watch the news during the day? Aren't you following the debate? Do you have any idea what Peter Eriksson is doing today? If you know that, you're welcome to tell me, because I know that, and it's also been a media thing today. I would not claim that the Minister of Housing is either absent or passive. On the other hand, I would like Mats Green and his colleagues around the municipality of Sweden to become a little more involved and less passive in the housing debate and not to get involved in building rental apartments or creating housing forms for groups other than the m who earn the most.
i-3d4793c627777c51-202	Mr President, I would like to I must confess that I do not know what the Minister of Housing is doing today. I am only looking at the only thing that matters, that is, what he is putting forward for real and real proposals to make it easier to build in Sweden, and here he has nothing to come up with. Instead, the Minister for Housing has a press conference on a balcony with a relative of an environmentalist Member of Parliament, as we could see two weeks ago. What we are looking at in the Parliamentary Assembly is what the government is putting forward for important proposals to increase housing construction in Sweden, and here we see nothing. Again: Despite the worst housing crisis in almost 60 years, no government has put forward so few proposals for increasing construction in Sweden for decades. It is not only untenable but completely unacceptable because people who are furthest from the housing market are being let down. I thank you for the clarification and commitment that Emma Hult made that after the next election they would be prepared to slaughter the sacred cows. That's what Emma says the Moderates need to do, too, and I agree. I have a clear mandate to have everything on the table, but then we need to have discussions to do as much as possible to increase housing construction, not as little as possible.
i-3d4793c627777c51-206	Mr President, I would like to Has Mats Green missed that more is being built in Sweden today than it has in a very long time? Has Mats Green missed that the government is investing 6 billion in its budget to get rentals with lower rents for the group that Mats Green obviously does not have a single proposal on how to create housing for? I would like to take this opportunity to highlight the fantastic green reform that Peter Eriksson promoted the other week. It is about removing the building permit requirement for solar installations. Instead of saying what the proposal was, Mats rallied about where the presentation was made. That is not right; it is politics that we should talk about. There's more building today, Mats Green. I brought you a good report that you can read. I've asked you to do that before, but today I printed it because you obviously didn't read about the government's 22 steps for more housing in Sweden today. Let me give it to you before we leave. So, what's Peter Eriksson doing today? Yes, he is together with the Swedish Construction Industries and Buildings. It is 8 March today, International Women's Day, and today the government is putting forward a goal that there will be more women in the construction industry. It is extremely important, and as a woman in the construction industry, I am proud that the government is saying this and has brought the construction industry along on this goal.
i-3d4793c627777c51-210	Mr President, I would like to When you fall ill or when someone close to you is affected by illness and needs care in order to survive and be able to live a good life, it is important of whom and where you get care. It is important that everyone, regardless of who you are, what conditions you have, how strong resources you have and what networks you have, get the same chance to take advantage of the best care that we in our country can deliver. We have not had these conditions. It's been different, and it's different. What care you receive depends on where you live, who you are and what conditions you have. The decision that we are going to make in relation to the proposal and the report with the perhaps not very exciting title A new decision-making process for highly specialised care is another important step in making care more equal and in making the very best care we in our country are able to deliver available to more people. One condition for everyone to have the same chance of getting the best care is that care where it does not work is not carried out at all but that we gather the skills so that those who are the best can continue to develop and become even better and deliver even better care. As a Christian Democrat, I am pleased because we have pushed this work forward and have ensured that the investigation on which today's decision is based has progressed. I am also pleased that the Committee on Social Affairs has largely reached agreement and that we agree on the elements that are important to maintain: pooling skills throughout the country, concentrating highly specialised care in certain places and continuing the emergency care mission throughout the country. Sweden is an elongated country with different conditions, and the care you need should be close or regularly available throughout the country. That is why we in the committee agree to address a declaration on this to the government. The committee also agrees that it is important to follow up this new decision-making process. Then we can correct where necessary so that we can continue to deliver the best possible care to all citizens. Mr President, I would like to We do not agree in all parts, and I therefore call for reservation 5 to set up a parliamentary inquiry to clarify the conditions for an appropriate division of responsibilities between the state and current principals in the area of health care. We Christian Democrats have a clear vision and hope that one day we will achieve a primary state responsibility for health care. It is only by pooling resources where they are needed that it becomes clear to all citizens throughout the country that, in fact, no matter where you live and who you are, you should have the same right to good care. A parliamentary inquiry could be another important step along this road. Mr President, I would like to I am pleased with the great agreement in committee and the important step we are taking with this report.
i-3d4793c627777c51-221	Mr President, I would like to I am also pleased that we are very much in agreement when we are discussing and debating such an important area. Mr President, I would like to We all know that Swedish healthcare is of the highest international medical quality. It's amazing. Once we have passed the care queue and receive care, it is often very good. At the same time, we have a lot of challenges and problems – but also opportunities – that are huge and comprehensive in healthcare. Some of the acute problems we see are the growing care queues, which have doubled in just three years. This is a completely unacceptable development. We're seeing a staff flight from medical care. The supply of skills and personnel is threatened in healthcare, where it is very different how county councils and regions function as employers. We have a shortage of specialist nurses, general physicians and X-ray nurses. We have a lack of continuity with regard to staffing in health care. We have patient safety that is sometimes threatened. This leads us to the advanced highly specialised care. Mr President, I would like to Today is 8 March – International Women's Day. Such a day may not really seem necessary, but it is still needed for many reasons. One of all reasons is that care in Sweden today is not equal. This means that there are differences in access to care, quality of care and health between women and men – differences that are not justified. Different questions are asked, different conclusions are drawn and different treatments are given. Women experience worse treatment than men. In some areas, poor quality care for women, including cardiovascular care, has traditionally been based on a male norm and research has taken the man as the starting point. In addition, the regional differences between county councils and regions in terms of waiting times and quality of specialist care are extensive. One way to equalise these differences is to further concentrate more of the highly specialised care. Mr President, I would like to Sweden currently has seven university hospitals offering highly specialised care of high medical quality. Highly specialised care is very complex and requires a certain volume and competence in order to maintain quality, patient safety and knowledge development, and to ensure efficient use of the shared resources of care. Quality, patient safety and clinical research are improved with increased volumes of patients per unit of care and per team performing highly specialised care. For example, there may be some advanced cancer care and surgery. Patients today have the opportunity to choose their health and care centre and outpatient specialised care. So far, however, the free search for care does not include freedom of choice in closed specialist care. It should be possible for patients who so wish to be able to choose specialised inpatient care. We lack this perspective in the bill. Mr President, I would like to The patient and patient safety should always be given priority. The moderates' line is therefore clear. More of the advanced highly specialised care needs to be concentrated nationally in fewer care units and practitioners. Just as the investigation set up by the alliance government points to, training provides skill. Focusing more highly specialised care is in the best interests of the patient, and this should always be the starting point. It should never be administrative and bureaucratic considerations of different county and regional boundaries that determine these decisions. At the same time, this must be implemented in practice from a holistic perspective. This government proposal for highly specialised care does not really live up to either. The government has taken a lot of time, and when it finally takes a decision on the matter, the proposal is still incomplete in terms of proposals and analysis. As early as November 2015, the government received the final report of the investigation Training provides skills. Only two years later do we get a bill, which in some parts is incomplete. This causes unnecessary problems and ultimately risks affecting individual patients and patient safety. On the other hand, it is great that we are now starting this work. There should be no political conflict about the basic basis for this. Increasingly highly specialised care should be concentrated in fewer units and performers. High-specialised care is not sufficiently concentrated, with lower quality and lower patient safety at worst. Increased concentration of highly specialised healthcare is essential in order to ensure a high quality of care and patient safety. Mr President, I would like to The work of the current Swedish National Health Board has been complicated and has not lived up to the reasonable expectations that have existed over the years. The reasons for this are many, not least the very complex causalities that exist with regard to highly specialised care. At present, around 15 diagnosis areas have been the subject of a so-called level structure decision. It has taken about 12 years to come to this conclusion. High-specialised care has thus far been concentrated to a small extent in the 21st century. The state therefore needs to take increased national responsibility. At the same time, when concentrating part of the national highly specialised care, it is central to consider the value of having access to regional care throughout the country and to have an appropriate distribution of responsibilities for health care between the state and current principals. The Government's proposal describes fairly well how the conditions within each region should be ensured, while the corresponding structures for balance between the different regions are lacking. In a situation where each individual decision is taken without account being taken of the whole, there may be consequences, perhaps especially for the smaller regional hospitals, which are not justified on the basis of the benefits of tiering in the individual case. The consequences for what happens, for example, to the emergency mission in the different regions of the various hospitals are insufficiently described. One possible risk is that smaller university hospitals may find it difficult to cope with major traumas. Yesterday I visited the University Hospital in Umeå, which described how vulnerable you are in this particular area. Therefore, it is important that we ensure overall that the government ensures patient safety wherever in the country emergency care is provided. Mr President, I would like to The health care system is very complex. Changing existing structures and organisation is difficult, but only because it is difficult should it not mean that necessary decisions are not made. But systematic monitoring, evaluation and analysis are needed. The tight timetable and the need for regional balance mean that the introduction of a new decision-making process for highly specialised care should be closely followed by the government, with regular checkpoints. Such a first control post and evaluation should take place early in the process, preferably when the first two operational teams are ready. It is also important to monitor the consequences for the development of the overall emergency care system and for university hospitals. The timetable set out in the Government's proposal is based on the assumption that all level structure at national level of all healthcare will be able to be implemented within three years of the submission of the planned pilot areas with the first two operational groups. In view of the fact that it has taken 12 years to take a decision on the current 15 areas of diagnosis, this timetable seems very optimistic. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to support the two declarations which we have addressed to the Government and which the Committee on Social Affairs has decided on. In addition, I call for reservation 7 and reservation 5, which concerns a parliamentary inquiry. In order for all citizens to have access to high-quality care, we believe that greater government responsibility is needed in relation to the organisation of health care. We believe that it is a step in the right direction to decide on a new decision-making process for national highly specialised care, which is now taking place. But in addition, the government should set up a parliamentary inquiry to clarify the conditions for an appropriate division of responsibilities between the state and the current principals of health care. Basically, we all agree that the highly specialised care should be further concentrated in the best interests of the patient. It is important to have an approach in which balanced balances are struck with regard to highly specialised care and emergency care throughout the country. We should always put the patient and patient safety first.
i-3d4793c627777c51-248	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating the Social Affairs Committee's report A new decision-making process for highly specialised care. We support this proposal to increase the concentration of highly specialised care. Our view is that the proposal can create good conditions for more equal care but also better care outcomes and more efficient use of health care resources. That is precisely where there is a lack of coordination of care and a lack of overall responsibility for patients. It is a major problem in Swedish healthcare today. Therefore, it is important to ensure well-functioning care chains for those patients in need of highly specialised care. In addition, studies show that if patients had been left to decide for themselves, a higher proportion of highly specialised care had already been concentrated in fewer units of care than it is today. In addition, there is a positive correlation between the number of interventions in a hospital and the quality of care. Mr President, I would like to The Government proposes in the bill that the permits for national highly specialised care be valid until further notice, and in other words without a time limit. An activity that has been authorised to carry out national high-specialised care may retain the permit as long as the care in the area in question is not redefined. But, Mr President, we share the criticism expressed by Karolinska University Hospital, Lund University and Skåne County Council that permits that are valid without a time limit may pose a risk of lock-in effects, i.e. that an operation that does not receive a permit in the first round will have difficulty competing for a future permit. We are also concerned that this lock-in effect may lead to a weakening of development power in this area over time. Therefore, we believe that the possibility of redistributing permits must exist in cases where another healthcare provider can offer a healthcare alternative with greater patient benefit than existing licence holders. The Law Council also makes a number of criticisms that it should be possible when it is appropriate to leave a temporary permit instead. Mr President, I would like to The primary task of healthcare is to provide high-quality, equal and accessible healthcare. And Swedish healthcare is of high medical quality – we should be very proud of that – but lacks a lot when it comes to accessibility. Sweden now has, as we all know, Europe's longest healthcare queues. One in three patients has waited longer for their treatment or surgery than the 90 days of the guarantee. In fact, in many cases waiting times are the longest since these care queues are measured. This also applies to cancer diagnosis, and let me give you an example. About 1,500 people suffer from pancreatic cancer each year. The maximum lead time for treatment with surgery is 36 days according to the standard course of care. However, only 30% of these patients receive treatment within this maximum lead time, which is, of course, unacceptable. Increased concentration of highly specialised care means that the care will be carried out on a fewer number of care units than at present, which may lead to a very high load on these care units during certain periods or situations. We believe that, in order to ensure accessibility for these patients in need of highly specialised care, the Nordic cooperation in healthcare should be extended. The Nordic countries have many common features. In addition to linguistic and cultural similarities, the Nordic countries also have similar healthcare patterns, which means that increased cooperation in the field of highly specialised care would be beneficial for patients. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to say that it is human to err. It's something I've done. When we dealt with this proposal in committee, we failed to support a motion in an alliance motion, of which I have informed the cabinet. I also believe that Members have been given this information. That is why, here and now, I am in favour of reservation 5. I also support our own reservations 3 and 6.
i-3d4793c627777c51-261	Mr President, I would like to One of the really dramatic changes that we have seen in Swedish healthcare over the last 30 years is precisely about baby heart surgery. For a child born in the early 1990s with a complicated heart defect, there was no alternative but that the child died. The corresponding children born today are sent by helicopter directly to Gothenburg or Lund, operated and will become a healthy and alert teenager. One of the important reasons for this was the change made in the mid-1990s. At that time the National Board of Health and Welfare decided that paediatric surgery was not something to do in many places in Sweden. The National Board of Health and Welfare therefore decided to concentrate it in two places: Lund and Gothenburg. This was a very controversial decision. Not least from the hospitals that lost the right to operate on children's hearts, the protests were very loud. They went out to the children's heart associations, i.e. parents of children with severe heart defects, and asked the question: Are you not also upset that the fine Karolinska Hospital and Uppsala University Hospital will no longer be allowed to operate on children with heart defects? They replied: No, our child can go to Hamburg, or for that matter to New York. The only thing we want to know is that those who operate on our child are by far the most skilled surgeons that can be reached. Mr President, I would like to This was the motive behind the alliance government's appointment of Måns Rosén as investigator. We had seen that the process had gone far too slow for several years, and we wanted to get it moving. Now we are on the case, and now the Parliament will unanimously support this proposal. Once again, I can make the observation that the major structural reforms that we have actually decided on in Parliament during this parliamentary term largely stem from investigations set up during the time of the alliance government. This will be a problem because there will be major reform needs in Swedish health care during the next parliamentary term. But there will not be a number of pre-prepared legislative proposals. So we will have a problem here. It is also important that we are aware that this will not be an easy process. We will quite quickly centralise important parts of Swedish healthcare. It may be a small volume, but it's still important parts. That is why we in the Alliance were clear in our follow-up motion on two points. Firstly, there must be a control station where you will soon look at how this process is going. Is it leading where we want to go, or has it encountered difficulties? I am pleased that the whole committee has supported the demands of the Alliance. Secondly, when you make such major changes, you can not only look at each part separately – each operation and each operation – but you also have to make an overall assessment, so that the consequence is not that you, for example, completely delöv the university hospitals in Linköping and Umeå. This request from the Alliance has also been supported by the whole committee. We have a reservation from the Alliance, and it is about the very fact that there is quite a mess in the Swedish health care structure. Who is responsible for what? These are, for example, medical priorities, where the parliament and the government say one day that it is glasses for children that are important and the second day says that it is childbirth that is the important thing. We need to sort this out so that it becomes clear – what is the responsibility of the state, what is the responsibility of county councils and what is the responsibility of municipalities? I see three very clear responsibilities, the first of which is – and I hope that the investigation will come to this – that the state should be responsible for the infrastructure in the healthcare sector. A lot of it in the care should not be in every county council. The second area of responsibility I see very clearly concerns staffing in Swedish health care. It has been the case that the state has been responsible for a large part of the health care training, but today the county councils go in and take part of this. Here you have to put your foot down – who is to be responsible for that we have enough specialist nurses, specialist doctors and so on? I also see this as a very clear state responsibility. The third area I see, Mr President, is that we need to be clearer in the governance of Swedish health care. It is not right that depending on where in the country you live it should vary so much when it comes to the health care you get access to. The queues should not be much longer in social democraticly governed county councils than in Stockholm and Halland, for example. Here we need to have clearer government governance in terms of standards and also in terms of supervision. Landsting that is not doing well, hospitals that are not doing well and clinics that are not doing well should be greeted by the Inspection for Health and Care, and it should also be possible to make sharp decisions. That is why, Mr President, I am in favour of reservation 5 and that we can go through this once – together, in a parliamentary inquiry – and see what responsibility each level should have.
i-3d4793c627777c51-276	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin, Minister for Social Affairs Annika Strandhäll, Minister Ardalan Shekarabi and Minister Tomas Eneroth. Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-3d4793c627777c51-278	Mr President, I would like to I would like to address my question to Minister Strandhäll. It is gratifying from the situation we are in right now that there is no conflict between the Moderates and the Alliance and the government in terms of more health professionals or a better working situation for them. That is where we are in complete agreement. No, the conflict between us in the Moderates and the Alliance and the government is instead about the growing care queues – the double care queues of the last three years and the triple queues of psychiatry – and all the suffering and anxiety and insecurity of all the people in these queues. That is why my question today is to the Government: what concrete things do the Council of State and the Government think can be done to actually reverse this very serious development?
i-3d4793c627777c51-282	Mr President, I would like to Of course, no human should have to wait a day too long for care. That is also why, as soon as we have taken up office, the government changed the policy that you had pursued over the last eight years. You're saying there's no dividing line between us when it comes to the view of staff in healthcare, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall. You almost chronically failed to invest in the staff during your eight years in power. You had a queue billion which instead forced existing staff to run faster, with the highest sickness rates in Sweden in these professions as a result. We have invested in staff throughout this term of office. We have expanded the number of training places with thousands of places. But it is clear that the failure you committed during eight years is not reversed overnight. The consequence of the growing healthcare queues is due to your failure to invest in the availability of competent health care personnel. And now you're still talking cue billions.
i-3d4793c627777c51-286	Mr President, I would like to Again: We are therefore in agreement between the Moderates and the Alliance and the government regarding the investment in more healthcare professionals and a better working environment. So there is no dividing line. I think perhaps it would have been nice to have a somewhat humble minister, who has nevertheless been responsible for this situation together with the government during the years in which queues have increased. I try again: Is there really no concrete action plan to overcome the queues that have increased during your time as Minister, Annika Strandhäll?
i-3d4793c627777c51-289	Mr President, I would like to As far as a concrete action plan is concerned, we laid down policy as early as autumn 2015. We have expanded the number of training places in the case of shortage staff by nearly 3 000 seats. We have provided the possibility of salary for nurses in order for them to be trained as specialist nurses. And yes, there is a dividing line. You have not supported our policy. You still want to introduce a cue billion in order for the staff to run faster. This doesn't solve the health care problem.
i-3d4793c627777c51-292	Mr President, I would like to My question is, for the most part, general policy but to some extent concerns the area of the Minister for Education, so I put the question to him. The start-up jobs are expected to start in 2019. The large target group is newly arrived. This means that almost everyone in the measure will have temporary residence permits, and since the measure is planned for a five-year period, most have not yet arrived in Sweden. Establishment jobs will be another one in a wide range of failed labour market policies with clear evasive effects and very poor results. My question to the Government is: Is it sensible to invest these enormous resources in a group where most people, you can assume, will return home or still not come to Sweden and should actually seek asylum elsewhere or be helped in the immediate area?
i-3d4793c627777c51-296	Mr President, I would like to Swedish democratic integration policy is a bit difficult. If people who come here from other countries don't get jobs, that's wrong, but if people come here from other countries and get jobs, that's also wrong. We know that if people who come here quickly can get jobs and can help build the country that can become theirs, Sweden and the Swedish economy are growing, and that gives jobs to more people. Therefore, the government has secured and supported the fact that the parties, those who govern the Swedish labour market, i.e. unions and employers, have now negotiated the right conditions where new arrivals and, for that matter, the other long-term unemployed can get start-up jobs that ensure that they get a job and a reasonable salary that in turn ensures that wages are not pushed down elsewhere in the labour market. They work according to collective agreements.
i-3d4793c627777c51-299	Mr President, I would like to The Minister chooses not to answer the question. It is this way, Gustav Fridolin, that the labour shortage on the Swedish labour market consists almost exclusively of jobs with qualified jobs. This need cannot be solved by asylum migration of people who often need decades of labour market measures and subsidised employment in order to make their own living at all. Is it not better to invest primarily in domestic labour for the needs of the future through education, where you yourself have a responsibility, and where it is necessary to have qualified labour migration?
i-3d4793c627777c51-302	Mr President, I would like to I note that unemployment is falling and that it is falling sharply. Half of that reduction is calculated by economists due to government policies. We are making efforts to give those furthest from the labour market an opportunity to enter and get a first job. This has meant, among other things, that it is now much faster for a refugee to enter the labour market and be able to contribute. With start-up jobs it will be possible to go even faster. That's even better.
i-3d4793c627777c51-304	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Shekarabi. In my hand, I hold Thorbjörn Fälldin's 1978 motion on regional policy. It describes how rural and sparsely populated areas suffer from a deterioration in services when administration from the state moves into growth places and how labour market policy drives people towards the big cities with queues and social ills as a result. Today you can recognize yourself in this 1978 text. Between 1977 and 1982, Fälldin relocated 40 authorities. I am pleased that the government wants to move out authorities in Sweden. The only problem is that authorities are being relocated to growth centres that already have problems with housing and infrastructure. I wonder how the government thought when choosing these places and why it did not move the authorities to places that have lost government jobs and to places that would really need it. Now we move jobs and authorities to places that don't really need it.
i-3d4793c627777c51-308	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Peter Helander, for a very important question! When we came to power in 2014, Swedish administration had had had a long period of centralisation, which was also mapped by Statskontoret, which showed that the state sector had centralised operations at a faster pace than other sectors of society. The State thus acted as a driving force in the centralisation of activities. This is also shown by research from Uppsala University. We started a process in which we have so far decided to relocate 2,000 jobs from Stockholm to other parts of the country. There are a large number of authorities that are being moved. It is not only parts of businesses that are being moved, but we are moving entire authorities and even government managers to other parts of the country. What localities do these authorities receive? We have done an analysis and seen which counties need to strengthen the state presence, and then we have also chosen a number of locations based on the skills supply. This is complemented by a measure aimed at setting up state service offices in the small towns that have experienced a major deterioration in government services. Now about ten of these will open just in the next few weeks.
i-3d4793c627777c51-313	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that you want to move 2 000 jobs; then you should remember that since 2004 10 000 new state jobs have been created in Stockholm. Urbanisation in Sweden does not really take place from the country to Stockholm, but from smaller municipalities to the growth places around the country, to the places where the government has moved authorities. To stop the split in the country, I would therefore wish that authorities could be moved to town two or three in each county.
i-3d4793c627777c51-315	Mr President, I would like to I fully agree with what Peter Helander says, and that is why decisions have now been taken on state activities in locations such as Lycksele, Söderhamn and Skara. This is where Arbetsförmedlingen is now establishing its operations. My counter-question is: now that there are proposals to privatise the Employment Service, will it be possible to guarantee that these jobs will remain in Lycksele, Söderhamn and Skara, or will hundreds of jobs disappear from places like these?
i-3d4793c627777c51-317	Mr President, I would like to The privatisation of Arbetsförmedlingen is really about privatising the actual agency of the job and not the whole of Arbetsförmedlingen. The government knows that, too. I hope that more jobs will be transferred to smaller towns!
i-674b7dd01d04c4b1-0	It's coming! )
i-3d4793c627777c51-319	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Social Affairs Annika Strandhäll. As a patient, you take for granted that the medical examinations made are based on solid knowledge, research, evidence and so on. We – you and I – would never accept that they were developed on rather shaky foundations, so that a little homemade. If you are unaccompanied, you are subject to age assessment by means of examinations that lack clear evidence. The National Board of Forensic Medicine has said that their investigations rest on the knowledge of the National Board of Health and Welfare. However, the National Board of Health and Welfare has made it clear that they do not have experts on age assessments. They have also not recommended the methods that the National Board of Forensics is working on. Forensics cannot name the experts with whom they have stated that they are cooperating, so there is no proper evidence for the type of investigations to which many unaccompanied minors are subjected. Can we really make life-changing judgments based on a rather home-cooked concept?
i-3d4793c627777c51-323	Mr President, I would like to It is obvious that we should ensure that the assessments and studies made are as evidence-based and as fundamentally correct as we can ever ensure from the knowledge available. On this issue, there is clear cooperation between the National Board of Forensic Medicine and the National Board of Health and Welfare. The issue has been well debated for quite a long time now. It is, of course, extremely important that we still see and try to judge that the age stated is also correct, and we apply existing knowledge.
i-3d4793c627777c51-326	Mr President, I would like to The National Board of Health and Welfare says they haven't given any methods to the National Board of Forensic Medicine, so it feels so to speak a little shaky. The National Board of Health and Welfare has also stated that the margin of error for the examination of knee joints and ankles is 3 per cent. There has been a great deal of criticism for this and then it has been reversed, which I think is a crucial reason for concluding these age assessments. It certainly does not feel legal for the young people who are exposed to this.
i-3d4793c627777c51-328	Mr President, I would like to Again, I am calm in knowing that there is a dialogue between the National Board of Health and Welfare and the National Board of Forensic Medicine. As I said, it is incredibly important that we use and apply existing knowledge and that we do so in as safe a way as we can. It's my assessment that we do.
i-3d4793c627777c51-330	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin. The Agency for Participation has produced a report on children with special needs. It shows that students in need of support do not receive it. The Swedish National Agency for Education has analysed the grades of students who completed grade 9 and their grades in grade 6. Of those who did not pass either grade 6 or 9, more than half did not receive special support either. The MFD report shows that the change in the School Act 2014 bears part of the blame for this. The effect of non-support is painfully clear, and this cannot be allowed to continue. I therefore wonder what information the Minister gives to those students and children who do not receive support today.
i-3d4793c627777c51-333	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Bengt Eliasson, for the question! I fully share your assessment, which has also been underlined by the Special Educational School Authority. It is not correct or in accordance with the law that a child who does not receive a grade in sixth grade continues throughout secondary school without having a proper action programme that gives him the opportunity to reach the knowledge requirements – something that is obviously happening today. This shows that grades are not enough to overcome the problems that exist when the student is not supported, but we need to invest in what enables the aid to be put in place. These investments include more special teachers – there are both more training and more special teachers being hired now – and they are about more basic special pedagogic tools for each teacher. We are now building a training programme to the same extent and style as the Mattelift in order for teachers to get just that. I also believe that a number of regulatory measures are needed. Some are looking at a specially appointed investigation, and some, which are about tightening up the right to special support during the very first years, the so-called read-write-count guarantee, we will soon return to Parliament with.
i-3d4793c627777c51-336	Mr President, I would like to After all, it is bureaucratic complexity and territorial thinking that prevent these students from getting the support and help they need. The review shows that what is to blame for this is the amendment of the School Act in 2014 that clarifies specific support, unlike, as it was before, support in extra adaptations. What is the message to these students? Now we have investments in the school, but what about the investment in the children?
i-3d4793c627777c51-338	Mr President, I would like to Of course, more special teachers are a real focus on children, but yes: We are currently reviewing the regulatory framework, including the changes made by the previous government in 2014, because we are seeing these consequences and effects. I also believe that we need to strengthen the very earliest support so that teachers who discover these students in second grade and third grade can ensure that the support is already in place at that time. I therefore hope that we can reach a broad agreement on the need for a so-called read-write-count guarantee, as the disability rights movement demands.
i-3d4793c627777c51-342	Mr President, I would like to I have a brief question for the Minister for Health, based on the situation we have: how does it feel to be the responsible Minister of State in a government that has ensured that we have doubled care queues?
i-3d4793c627777c51-343	Mr President, I would like to Every person in need of it will receive care on time, Emma Henriksson. It is not this government that is responsible for having the care queues we have, but it is also, of course, about your failure to train enough care staff during your time in power. The first thing we had to do when we had the opportunity to change the policy – directly in the autumn of 2015 – was to extend the training places to specialist nurse, nurse, assistant nurse and midwife with almost 1,500 places. Now we're up to 3,000 places. We're trying to get these out as quickly as possible. Instead, how does it feel to be in charge of a situation where we have to cancel operations, that the staff are kneeling because you failed to bet on them and instead allowed them to run faster with a queue billion?
i-3d4793c627777c51-346	Mr President, I would like to It is good that the government is pursuing the expansion that we started. It is good that the government is making sure to continue to expand the staff, as we did. There were more doctors per citizen in our country during our time in the government. What this government has achieved is to double the care queues that we had managed to shorten, and that is what this is all about. It's your responsibility!
i-3d4793c627777c51-348	Mr President, I would like to But, Emma Henriksson, no one is so naive that they think that care queues occur overnight. In the last survey, 17 out of 21 county councils replied that it is a matter of staff shortages. That lack does not occur overnight. We have known for ten to fifteen years that there is a generational shift in health care. When I took over the fall of 2014, the health and care personnel topped the sick leave in Sweden. The sickness rate had run far too fast, thanks to your cue billion. You had hired too few people. You're responsible for that.
i-3d4793c627777c51-350	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister S. Trandhäll. Today is 8 March, and we are paying attention to International Women's Day. We note that women's rights have not always been self-evident, that sisters before us have fought and won. Together with us, the sisters are now fighting on. We realize that we have come a long way, but the road to the goal is still long. There are areas in society where we can see that there is no gender equality. One area that has been highlighted in recent years is inequality in health care. The government has had high ambitions to show that it is the first feminist government. Against this background, I would like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs what the government is doing and is planning to do in the coming years to invest in improving the health of women.
i-3d4793c627777c51-353	Mr President, I would like to During this term of office, this government has increased its investment in health care by a total of 13 billion. As I said, we have made a huge effort on staff, but also on women's health. It is another area of health care that has been lagging behind for a long time. We have invested in improving maternity care and improving primary care interventions specifically for women. Among other things, we have introduced free mammography, free prev entivives for all under 21 years of age and free screening for cervical cancer. With the efforts that we have made during these four years and that are planned over the next four years, we will only have invested nearly SEK 10 billion in terms of women's health during these two terms of office in addition to the other investments that we have made. I'm proud of this.
i-3d4793c627777c51-356	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am very pleased that the government is now investing so much in women's health. I would also like to highlight the importance of equal research in this area. I look forward to further work with you and with Minister Hallengren in our fight for gender equality.
i-3d4793c627777c51-358	Mr President, I would like to In a situation where equality goes backwards throughout the world, we know that the focus must be clear. In addition to the efforts I mentioned earlier, women are so much more affected than men by mental illness. There we have also made specific efforts during this parliamentary term. Since we took over 2014 we have doubled our efforts on psychiatry in Sweden.
i-3d4793c627777c51-360	Mr President, I would like to Last week, the Prime Minister promised 14 000 more people in health care during his medical tour. There is a real need for more people in health care and, above all, permanent workers. Today you're addicted to a lot of stafts. There are about 9,000 registered nurses who today do not work in health care. Of these, about 60 percent say that if working conditions change, they may consider returning to care. Many of these 9 000 nurses are women. Therefore, on International Women's Day, I would like to ask Minister of Social Affairs Annika Strandhäll in the feminist government: What can the Minister of Social Affairs do to make the five and a half thousand nurses a resource in health care again? Then perhaps the Prime Minister's goal would be a little more realistic to achieve.
i-3d4793c627777c51-363	Mr President, I would like to We will, of course, need every hand in the care. Needs are increasing, and we are getting older. We need to keep all the employees that we have. I think it is very telling that Lena Asplund talks about insecure employment conditions in healthcare that make you leave it. You might even be able to support an approach that reduces, for example, the general time limit, which particularly affects women in health care. Otherwise, during this parliamentary term, we have invested a great deal in improving precisely for the staff. We have increased the resources for health care by 13 billion during our term of office. This year we are making the biggest investment ever on staff with an additional 5.5 billion to improve employment conditions, improve the working environment and hire more. In addition, it is an investigation, order and care, that is looking at whether you can do things at the national level when it comes to relay doctors.
i-3d4793c627777c51-367	Mr President, I would like to Well, I don't really believe what the Minister of Social Affairs said. In my home country, Västernorrland, more and more nurses stop. It's the Minister of Social Affairs' comrades who run it. The staff costs for nurses were 130 million in 2017, so it is not that the Minister for Social Affairs' comrades are doing everything they can to keep staff. On the contrary, the staff are fleeing. Moreover, there are problems with wage levels, but that is not my question.
i-3d4793c627777c51-370	Mr President, I would like to It is very telling that Lena Asplund again points to Norrbotten. As far as I know, it is the moderate-controlled Stockholm County Council that last night, due to lack of surgical nurses, had to go up to staff position and cancel a number of operations. People have problems all over the country. That is also why, as soon as we had an opportunity in 2015, the government changed its policy. We are now making the biggest investments in health care personnel over the past 25 years. I'm proud of it.
i-3d4793c627777c51-373	Mr President, I would like to Stina Nilsson, Charlotte Kalla, Hanna Öberg, Frida Hansdotter, Anna Hasselborg, Sara McManus, Agnes Knochenhauer, Sofia Maberg, Jennie Wåhlin, Ebba Andersson, Anna Haag, Linn Persson, Mona Brorsson and Anna Magnusson. Today is International Women's Day, and I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to these Olympic heroes who performed so well during the Olympic Games that passed just a few weeks ago. However, they need to be more numerous. In order for them to become more people, their conditions need to be improved. Elitsportande men practice their sport full time and also live on sports in Sweden today. Elitsportande women practice their sport in all available time and need to work full time in order to be an elite athlete. It doesn't make any sense.
i-3d4793c627777c51-375	Mr President, I would like to I believe that I nonetheless caught up with Emma Hult's question, which is about something as important as equal conditions in sport as well. At the last Winter Olympics, we were able to see the amazing achievements of our women who competed. Only yesterday I raised the question with the Chairman of the National Sports Federation. We have an ongoing dialogue that sport, like all other sectors in Sweden, needs to speed up its work in order to achieve greater equality. Tänk, what results we could have in Swedish elite sports if women too had the opportunity to practise their sport on the same terms as men!
i-3d4793c627777c51-379	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister of Sport Strandhäll. What I was referring to was how to improve conditions so that more women succeed in performing as much as the women we could see during the last Olympic Games. I also have a supplementary question I would like to ask. We see that young girls leave sport much earlier than young guys do, and that is a public health problem. How do we ensure that young girls can also stay in sport just as the young guys can?
i-3d4793c627777c51-381	Mr President, I would like to This is indeed a public health problem. We see that only four out of ten young girls are moving enough. Yesterday I received a report with figures pointing to a Swedish 18-year-old moving less today than a Swedish 85-year-old. So this is a huge public health problem. It is pleasing, however, that intensive work on the gender equality issue is currently under way in the Swedish sports movement. Gender equality work is being developed.
i-3d4793c627777c51-384	Mr President, I would like to We have seen, not least recently, how extreme Islamic forces have infiltrated Swedish politics. Representatives have gained significant positions in parties such as the Moderates and the Center Party, but also in the government parties the Environment Party and the Social Democrats. We also know that networks such as the Muslim Brotherhood aim to gain influence in several important social functions in order to build an Islamic state in the long term. Just over a year ago, the Swedish Agency for Social Protection and Preparedness published a scientific pre-study that showed that the rise of the Muslim Brotherhood is a new factor to take into account in order to plan the social capacity to protect important democratic values. I would therefore like to ask Gustav Fridolin, who answers general political questions, whether the government has a plan to ensure that these forces do not get into or benefit from state authorities.
i-JhgzBCHUHJnpBjFfCy5f6T	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Markus Wiechel, for the question! Only this week, the government reported the investigation that will ensure that all government regulations that in any way mean that resources, money or other funds are provided to various organisations first undergo a test that shows that they support and work for the principles on which the Swedish values are based, such as democracy, human rights and gender equality. This was done after good cooperation with the parties that reached the broad agreement on how we combat and prevent various forms of extremism and terrorism. Such control is absolutely self-evident and should always be done when the state pays out money. By keeping this work high, the state will also be able to ensure that the work is done by the entire public Sweden, i.e. also municipalities and county councils.
i-3d4793c627777c51-389	Mr President, I would like to What Gustav Fridolin says, of course, sounds promising, but we know that Swedish tax funds today go to federations such as the study association Ibn Rushd and the aid organisation Islamic Relief, which has clear links with the Muslim Brotherhood. Does the government think it reasonable for support to go to the Muslim Brotherhood?
i-3d4793c627777c51-391	Mr President, I would like to Member of Parliament Markus Wiechel knows very well that it would be wrong for me to review a separate government decision on the payment of money to individual organisations. That's why I won't do it. Otherwise, I would end up in the Constitutional Committee very quickly, and that is why he chooses to formulate the question in this way. However, we have taken very seriously the fact that there are systems in the public Sweden in which we pay out resources that have come to organisations that do not operate according to the Swedish values. Therefore, these systems will be changed and strengthened in broad political agreement.
i-3d4793c627777c51-394	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Fridolin. Yesterday morning I had breakfast with Johan, a 19-year-old guy I know for many years. He has a very special talent and a complicated disability that makes his life have worked well with the help of assistants. He can even visit the Brynäs games. His parents are in despair about what is happening now, and they are terrified of the two - year trials that are taking place. That's justified. Since 2014, 1 200 people have lost their state personal assistance. This destroys their lives many times. I have read an article in Today's Society written by some wise environmentalists. It stated that the government must now clearly distance itself from this and begin by rewriting the directives for the investigation that is tasked with making savings on assistance for state financial reasons. My question to Gustav Fridolin is: Do you agree with your six environmental partners?
i-4QEhRXaLWP28xwHCjhK53q	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anders W Jonsson, for the question. I well recognize the despair that many parents or those who are themselves eligible for assistance describe. Only today, through its new Minister Lena Hallengren, the government has established that those entitled to assistance will also receive assistance. It is a good principle that must be upheld. Any investigation and any government decision taken by this government shall be based on the protection of this principle. That is why the government acted forcefully after the last judgment and judicial review that jeopardises the right to assistance. On the basis of this action, it goes without saying that we are also reviewing the work as a whole. Lena Hallengren announced that she will meet representatives of the disability rights movement in the future to start work on this.
i-3d4793c627777c51-401	Mr President, I would like to However, that was not the answer to my question. This is a frightening development, as we have seen since 2014. Today, 1 200 fewer are entitled to state assistance compensation. This is due to the directives for an investigation into saving money and regulatory letters to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to reduce costs. Correcting the last sentence from the Supreme Administrative Court is a good thing, but other judgments are causing it for those people who absolutely need their support most. Does Gustav Fridolin support his anxious environmental party friends?
i-3d4793c627777c51-404	Mr President, I would like to Those and all others who are very concerned about this can feel the support of the government. Anders W Jonsson knows very well that the directives for an investigation to look at future legislation are not what changes government review here and now. The review of public authority has changed depending on the legal outcome of the legislation that we already have. The consequences have been such that it is important to review how we get strong legislation. We in the government will work for this, on the basis of the principle that the person entitled to assistance should receive assistance. We hear despair.
i-3d4793c627777c51-406	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Social Affairs Annika Strandhäll. We Social Democrats value good health care highly. But through testimony from staff, patients, relatives and the media, we know that there are very big problems at Sweden's and perhaps the world's most expensive hospital, New Karolinska in Solna. NKS is not just a hospital for us Stockholmers, it is also one of the country's largest university hospitals. There complex treatments are carried out that are not done anywhere else. This makes the hospital a national matter.
i-3d4793c627777c51-410	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for an urgent question. New Karolinska Hospital in Solna is of course a very special hospital. The hospital has several national health care assignments and thus serves patients from all over Sweden. It simply has to work and is supposed to be a flagship. The situation today is that we not only have the world's most expensive hospital, but we have the world's 13th most expensive building in Stockholm. For the government, it is extremely important to clarify how we can find ourselves in a situation where we have the world's 13th most expensive building, the world's most expensive hospital, which still does not work as intended. Profession and patients are also concerned. We have therefore set up a Commission that will now look at how it has been possible to do this to ensure that it will never happen in Sweden again.
i-Ufg7e2pX73fcZFzN9wj7A4	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I and many Stockholmers with me expect the investigation to result in new regulations and decisions that prevent future ideological experiments like NKS. Tax funds should be handled carefully and go to what they are intended for. In this case, they should go to good medical care.
i-3d4793c627777c51-414	Mr President, I would like to During today's Question Time, we have debated the great needs of Swedish healthcare. When we allocate tax funds and when the government also intends to continue to make the biggest investments in modern times in Swedish health care, it is obvious that we will also ensure that these go to improving the staff conditions, that we have enough staff, that we provide high-quality care. They're not supposed to go to consulting fees.
i-3d4793c627777c51-416	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Eneroth. The climate threat is one of the greatest challenges of our time. Unfortunately, we can see that the previous development of reduced emissions has halted. According to Statistics Sweden, emissions increased in 2016. That is why it is worrying that last week the Finnish Transport Administration came up with a gloomy message about our ability to reach the climate target in the transport sector. To achieve this target, the sector needs to reduce its emissions by between 6% and 7% per year, but at present they are only reducing by about 2%, which is therefore far from being enough for us to reach the climate target.
i-MaN2hzvmuggQnwfe9HfnXz	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maria Stenergard, for an urgent question. It is the government's most important priority to ensure that Sweden becomes the world's first fossil-free welfare country. We will switch the country so that we can combine strong growth, high employment and good welfare and show that we can be the world leader in climate change. The figures reported by Trafikverket also say, which is interesting, that in the transport sector the environmental impact is reduced in relation to the past. The efforts we have made in recent years have played a role. This is important not least in order to show that a transport sector can be changed by changing the support for drivelines, so that more biodrive lines can be produced or, for that matter, ensuring that cars can go on electricity, and also by making infrastructure investments that strengthen rail investments. In the national plan that the government will present in the future, there will be clear steps to reach the climate targets – unlike what it was like during the time of the Alliance.
i-3d4793c627777c51-423	Mr President, I would like to When the Alliance took over after the former Social Democratic-led government, Sweden after Albania had the world's oldest and most emission-intensive car fleet in Europe. Then we began an extremely important change. Now, unfortunately, we are seeing how total emissions are increasing and how Sweden does not look like to achieve the targets in the transport sector. I very much look forward to the government's strengthened action in this area.
i-3d4793c627777c51-425	Mr President, I would like to You subsidised diesel cars. I'm not sure the super environmental car premium you had was the very best way. We are creating long-term conditions for both changing both the transport sector and making the necessary investments to ensure the strengthening of maritime transport, which is climate-smart, and rail transport. Here were the sad underinvestments during the time of the Alliance. We spend 100 billion more on climate-smart transport, and that will produce results.
i-3d4793c627777c51-428	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister Shekarabi. Throughout the entire term of office, the Government has been working on a legislative proposal which ultimately aims to abolish citizens' freedom of choice in the area of welfare services in schools, retirement homes, health centres and so on. Recently, the Law Council came up with stingy criticism of the bill on a point-by-point basis. The Law Council pointed out that it cannot be excluded that a large number of care recipients and users, along with their relatives, as well as a large number of pupils and parents, will be adversely affected in various ways, for example, by closures. Here in Stockholm, more than every other high school student attends an independent school. In the whole kingdom, it's more than one in four. What is the government's message to these children and young people and, of course, their parents when they want to shut down their schools?
i-X6Vj8tH2z7cTJNAiStPHsN	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Oscar Sjöstedt, for the question! I would like to start by reminding Oscar Sjöstedt that the Swedish Democrats went to elections to severely limit the profits of Swedish schools and welfare. It justified its position to the voters because it was wrong that we allowed resources to leak from Swedish school and welfare to tax havens and owners. Mr President, I would like to We have a duty to ensure that taxpayers' money is invested in activities related to Swedish welfare and school. Our tax money should come to Swedish school children and users in elderly care, not end up in tax havens. Sweden is the only country in the European Union, and the only country in the Nordic countries, which allows profit withdrawals from the publicly funded school. It is a shame that this has not been dealt with before. The Government will come back with proposals to the Riksdag, which will limit the profits of schools and welfare. It is an obligation we have to our citizens.
i-3d4793c627777c51-435	Mr President, I would like to That's not true. The whole proposal ultimately aims to abolish the freedom of choice of the individual citizen in favour of a public monopoly. It is ideologically driven legislation that I honestly did not believe the Social Democracy was capable of. The question remains: A quarter of a million children and young people attend independent primary or secondary school. Preschool is not included. Why should these children and young people not have the right to attend the school they have chosen?
i-3d4793c627777c51-437	Mr President, I would like to I can assure Oscar Sjöstedt that this government will always safeguard the freedom of choice and the possibility for users to choose their business. On the other hand, we do not allow leakage from school and care for the elderly. What is wrong with a proposal that involves investing more of our tax money in nurses? What is wrong with a proposal that forces the actors to see the value of nurses in Swedish care for the elderly? It's an obligation we have to our nurses.
i-3d4793c627777c51-440	Mr President, I would like to The government cuts the scope of upper secondary school work by half. The aim of upper secondary school work is to give pupils in upper secondary school an opportunity to connect their studies and what they have learned in several different subjects and to show that they are ready to meet their professional life or further studies. In order to do so, it is important to have sufficient time to prepare, carry out and complete a work. Otherwise, high school work does not make much sense. It is not only us from moderate quarters who are concerned, but also the Swedish National Agency for Education and the National Association of Teachers says that the halving risk of the subject not fulfilling its function.
i-9ScyCUxjofDdRUSLfq8Y59	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ida Drougge, for the question! The government's assessment is that this is not a deterioration. We believe that this corresponds in a good way to the work that good special work can involve, while in many cases students get more teacher-led time. It also gives room to reintroduce aesthetic subjects for all high school students. We know what the value of aesthetics looks like. We live in a male world and labour market where your ability to describe and explain your work is more important than ever. There are greater demands to understand also complex contexts and express more difficult things. These are exactly the things you practice and practice in the aesthetic subjects. That is why it has been important for us to reintroduce aesthetic subjects in high school, and it is in the proposal that Anna Ekström has moved on with.
i-3d4793c627777c51-446	Mr President, I would like to There is no doubt that aesthetic subjects are important for education and learning. In comprehensive school there are therefore several hundred hours of these subjects. For example, the Moderates and the Alliance introduced Creative School, focusing more on these subjects. But that is not what my question was about. If the Minister does not listen to the Moderates perhaps he can listen to the National Board of Education, the National Association of Teachers, the Technology Companies or IF Metall. I'll ask my question again.
i-3d4793c627777c51-448	Mr President, I would like to The bourgeois government chose to abolish the aesthetic subjects of all high school students. A very large proportion of high school students no longer have an aesthetic subject, which makes it difficult for them to be educated in the way Ida Drougge describes and prepares in a labour market where the demands are greater than ever before to be able to describe their work and what they do. That is why we have put forward a proposal which reduces the scope of special work to what is better suited to reality and restores aesthetic subjects.
i-3d4793c627777c51-451	Mr President, I would like to I'd like to ask my question to the Secretary of State. Today, as has been mentioned earlier, it is 8 March – International Women's Day. It's not a day we're celebrating. It's a day we're paying attention to. This applies, among other things, to how unequal society still stands. I'm a day-to-day nurse and personal assistant. More than half of all nurses, carers, child carers, cleaners and personal assistants work part-time. Most people do it not voluntarily but perhaps because the employer only offers part-time work or because the job is simply too tough because of poor work environment or understaffing, perhaps to the advantage of saving money whether it is government or private care.
i-FGXVASGYYShu8jfP2v5TyE	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Veronica Lindholm, for the question. First of all, we must continue to provide our municipalities and county councils with more resources. It has been quite right for the government to invest in increased state grants to municipalities and county councils so that there is scope for both hiring more and improving the conditions for employees in the municipal sector. We welcome the agreement between the parties in the municipal sector as regards the right to full-time employment and improved working conditions for those who work hard in welfare. As far as the independent actors who are taking part in tax revenue are concerned, we will come back, as I said earlier, with proposals to introduce regulations for the use of resources in the activities for which they are intended. We want our tax money invested in our nurses. We do not want to allow leakage from Swedish elderly care. It takes a little more than fine words. It requires action, regulations and laws. It requires the Swedish Parliament to vote correctly and produce legislation that means that our nurses are given priority in the care of the elderly.
i-3d4793c627777c51-460	Mr President, I would like to My question is to the Minister for Infrastructure. Telia, partly owned by the state, cuts the copper wire for thousands of people in the countryside. In some parts of Sweden there is neither telephony nor broadband. It's a rural dismantling. The next dismantling is that Trafikverket wants to avoid taking responsibility for 2 000 km of our country's road network. Why? Well, that's a saving requirement. Saving requirements affect our residents around the roads. Is not infrastructure, broadband, telephony and roads to the basics of a country? Are not all people equal regardless of whether they live in the city or in the countryside? The signal that is heard is clear, unless the telephone line is cut: Leave the countryside quickly! Now we're even gonna have to do the government's work on the big roads. My question is: is the Minister behind the Swedish Transport Administration's saving requirements?
i-3d4793c627777c51-465	Mr President, I would like to I would really like to thank Magnus Oscarsson for giving me the chance to correct it in the nstack that was on Aktuellt yesterday. The Finnish Transport Administration itself has done so. It was an element in which it was argued that there were savings proposals that led the Swedish Transport Administration to hand over road liability to individual associations. That's not correct. The Finnish Transport Agency itself has published on its website a denial for this because it is incorrect. There are no saving requirements. It goes without saying that if you are going to do this type of transfer, it should take place in dialogue with the road keepers so that you agree on it. If you don't agree, you can appeal. I have noted that for the last eight years there have been three appeals to the government on this issue. We're a government for the whole country. In the same way as the Minister of Civil Affairs previously explained how we move out government activities, we ensure that we build infrastructure throughout the country and ensure that you get broadband across the country. This is a government for the whole country.
i-3d4793c627777c51-468	Mr President, I would like to My question is general and therefore goes to Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin. It concerns the important decision on the authorisation requirement to combat mosquitoes in the lower Dalälven river. Once again, the government has got the decision on its table. The uncertainty, anxiety and despair that exist pending decisions for all the people living in the area are terrible and untenable. The County Administrative Board of Uppsala, led by the County Governor, has requested that the Government make a positive decision and that it be valid for three years. My question is brief: how does the government intend to decide?
i-2tgAcHvtNLdXJmHPgU65GC	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Solveig Zander, for the question! I understand and know that the issue is of the utmost seriousness for those who live in the area and are affected by the mosquito plague. I also understand that Mr Zander raises the issue. However, it is my job to answer the general political questions to explain that when it comes to examining an administrative decision, decisions should be taken after a proper examination of the arguments that authorities and others have come in with and thus also the County Administrative Board and the County Governor of Uppland. They must then be presented to the public and the Riksdag in the manner usual. So I cannot answer the question from the Parliament's pulpit.
i-3d4793c627777c51-473	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Minister for Infrastructure. The Director General of the Finnish Transport Agency has previously warned that the government's funding for road maintenance is too low and that it will lead to poorer roads in some parts of the country. Yesterday we heard in SVT that Trafikverket renounces responsibility for a large number of roads around the country that the state has previously taken care of. It is reported that it is 2 000 km. The national road network is at a total of 10 000 km. The Finnish Transport Agency is convinced that there are savings requirements but at the same time says that it has too little money for road maintenance to maintain an adequate road standard throughout the network. Does the Government think it is reasonable that the Finnish Transport Administration renounces responsibility, and does he deny that there is a project going on to transfer responsibility from the Finnish Transport Administration to others?
i-3d4793c627777c51-478	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Jessica Rosencrantz! They'll tell you what's going on here before you hear the answers. The Finnish Transport Administration has denied this. There are no savings proposals for such a rescheduling. In the few cases you want to force the transfer of road maintenance responsibilities, it can be appealed to the government. Then it is the government that decides on such a matter. There have been few such matters. There is an ambition if you leave the responsibility behind. This can be done in a context if a new road is built instead of the main part of the traffic. Then you do it in dialogue with the road keeper who takes over. The government is investing in infrastructure. We spend 100 billion more than the alliance government did on infrastructure. We invest in both road maintenance and railway maintenance. That is also why we will see major efforts in the national plan presented by the government in April.
i-3d4793c627777c51-484	Mr President, I would like to According to SCB, today almost 60,000 people work as truck drivers. This profession has for a long time been exposed to unhealthy competition, in principle illegal competition, from both the Swedish and foreign haulage industries. In short, it can be described as using poverty in other countries to lower wages here in Sweden. As a result, we will have less resources for health care, school and infrastructure. Now the government has decided to tighten up the client responsibility. How will it help this profession?
i-3d4793c627777c51-487	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Jasenko, for a very important question! That's exactly what Jasenko says. We have seen developments in the labour market that exploit drivers from Eastern Europe and dump social conditions. That is not acceptable. That is one of the reasons why we have already made progress in the past with the clapping of vehicles that violate driving and rest time rules. There has been a sharp increase in fines so that it will not be profitable to exploit people in this way. In addition, requirements for winter tyres have been introduced on both Swedish heavy-duty vehicles and foreign vehicles, which means that we are levelling out the conditions of competition. We are now putting forward a proposal on customer liability, which means that the person who orders transport professionally also has a responsibility throughout the chain to ensure that it is legal transport. In this way, we place a responsibility on large Swedish companies to ensure that the transport they order does not benefit a black labour market. There will be order. It is appreciated by both the haulage industry and the transport workers, and it will be better order in Sweden on our roads.
i-3d4793c627777c51-493	Mr President, I would like to For me and the Moderates, it is important to encourage entrepreneurship and to create good conditions for entrepreneurs to contribute to society's development. This is particularly true in the area of welfare. Diversity and competition lead to the development of welfare, the improvement of quality and the reduction of costs while giving patients, patients and care recipients freedom of choice. Unfortunately, the current government is of a different opinion. It pursues a policy that creates uncertainty about the long-term prerequisites for, for example, conducting a preschool. The welfare sector is female-dominated, and as the government is now deteriorating the conditions for entrepreneurship in the sector, we see clearly in the statistics how entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship are declining. Today is International Women's Day. The present government claims to be a feminist government, but we are now seeing clearly how its policy puts a brake on enterprising women.
i-3d4793c627777c51-497	Mr President, I would like to Keeping things in order in welfare, ensuring that tax money goes to what it is intended for and, for that matter, keeping track of procurement so that we ensure that when we use our common resources to buy services or goods, it leads to workers being treated well and high environmental standards and other requirements being accompanied – it is feminist policy. We know that those most affected by injustices and by leakages from welfare activities are often women. Let us return to preschool, as Johan Hultberg mentioned in his question. I can tell you that preschool is part of the Swedish labour market where a lot of women work. If money intended to create quality in preschool, to ensure that children's groups are small enough, and to ensure that pre-colleagues and children's nurses are paid enough for their work instead, it disappears into profits or, at worst, into tax havens, it will not be better for women in Sweden. It gets worse for women in Sweden.
i-3d4793c627777c51-500	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Fridolin. Last Friday, the Law Council presented its statement on the proposal to ban profit in welfare. Criticism is stinging. The bill is considered to be in conflict with both the freedom of business and municipal self-government. In addition, the proposal is expected to miss the goal of quality in welfare and resources. The basis is considered to be too substandard to even be able to make decisions. And perhaps worst of all: the government's proposals seem to lack impact assessment, including for the 340 000 pupils who are currently attending a free school. Other left-wing representatives have dismissed the Council's criticism and astoundingly said that they intend to proceed with the bill as it stands. I therefore have a question for the Government. As Minister of Education, you are ultimately responsible for the schooling of these 340 000 students. Do you think it is reasonable to proceed with the bill when the Law Council finds that the consequences for all these students are not analysed and when the proposal actually risks their education?
i-3d4793c627777c51-504	Mr President, I would like to I can tell you that Erik Bengtzboe – the students' education is not improved by the fact that tax money that you and I have put into school disappears elsewhere. It does not get better because their teachers get a little less paid than they would otherwise get, because the teacher continuity gets a little worse, because the teacher density gets a little worse and because there are no resources left when a student needs extra support. That is the reality of a lot of schools, and that is the reality of the statistics we see when we study and compare profit-making free schools with schools in the public sector. I do not think that is acceptable. I think the tax money that you and I put into school should also come to school. We shall ensure that the bill put on Parliament's table, for which Ardalan Shekarabi is responsible in the government, has considered the views well, including those of the Legislative Council. We will present a bill at Parliament's table, because these are important issues relating to where yours and my tax money disappears. In the end, it is about the quality of Swedish school and for the students that Erik Bengtzboe says he is protecting.
i-3d4793c627777c51-508	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister Annika Strandhäll. A functioning healthcare system is a crucial building block in our welfare model. When we are sick and need care, it must work and be available; it is as simple as that. I know that the Government and the Government see the challenges ahead and have announced major efforts to reduce queues and increase accessibility everywhere. But I, like many Stockholmers, have great concerns about how our healthcare here, in the Stockholm County Council of the Alliance, works. There are cancelled operations, closed care places, overcrowded emergency rooms and a strained staff situation. This is the result of a privatisation idea and, of course, of the procurement chaos with NKS, where billions go to profits, consultants and cost-effective operation and not to health care and staff. Despite the best conditions in the country, we are unable to provide the best care.
i-3d4793c627777c51-511	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mattias Vepsä, for the question. I have a great deal of concern both among Stockholmers and elsewhere in the country where there are far too long queues today. That is why the government has re-established the policy that was pursued over eight years and that allowed clear underinvestments in the provision of human resources and skills in health care. This policy has resulted in us having the highest rates of sick leave stolen in Sweden among health care personnel, and that is women. That is why we are now making the biggest investments in health care that have taken place in the last 25 years. We have spent 13 billion in the parliamentary term in increased appropriations, and we will do more. When it comes to New Karolinska in Stockholm, it is an exceptional situation. We will set up a special investigation to ensure that this can never happen in Sweden again.
i-3d4793c627777c51-515	Mr President, I would like to In 1948, the Social Democrats and Tage Erlander introduced the general child benefit. It has served Sweden well and evolved over time to become an important support for ordinary families with children in our country. Unfortunately, it has stood still for far too long. The bourgeois government never raised the child allowance but let it slip behind. But now we are finally raising the child benefit – something that the country's approximately 1 1⁄2 million children's households will feel in about two weeks when the next payment is made. That will then be 200 SEK more per child and month. That's great, but I hear at the same time that there will be proposals to phase out or test out the child benefit. I would therefore like to hear Minister Strandhäll's views on these moves and on the future of child benefit.
i-3d4793c627777c51-518	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Teresa Carvalho, for the input and the question! The Swedish child benefit, the Swedish general child benefit, is a fundamental pillar of the Swedish model. All children in Sweden, regardless of which parents they live with, should be able to feel that they are being invested in as a child. Unfortunately, I have to say that during the last eight years, under the alliance government, no effort was made on the general child benefit. We know that the effort that we now make with 200 kroner per child per month will have a huge impact on parents who have children at home. It makes a difference. In fact, these hundreds, about which one can sometimes hear that there is a splendor in the debate, make a difference to the children. It is important that we include everyone who pays for welfare so that they can take part in the investments to be made, not least on children and family.
i-3d4793c627777c51-521	Mr President, I would like to Friends in the chamber! All the thousands of people watching this! The discussion on specialist care has developed into a general debate on health care. And I'm not late to drag mine to the ground in it, initially. Yesterday it was staff position – again – in Stockholm, this time at Karolinska in Huddinge. It is one of many staff locations we have had in the region, in Stockholm County Council. It's about staff shortages. It is not the Löfven that governs this county council, but it is actually you on the right that have been responsible here, and that for many years. But to be perfectly honest, we hope this is the last game you'll ever have to play. It is also here, in Stockholm County Council, that a number of people have died in the cancer queues. There's a police investigation right now. I didn't think we were gonna talk about it today. But now I did it at the beginning. And now I'm going to the specialist care. It is interesting that inequalities in health, both geographical and class as well as gender, have been allowed to continue for so long and that no government has really taken hold of it. On April 10, 2014, however, you did so on the right when you appointed an investigation into the highly specialised care. And you could say that was about three minutes to 12. You sound very competent when it comes to health care. But when we discuss these issues, you always bring your little magic box. And out of the small, very marginal, magic box you lift up the queue billions. I just want to say one thing: the Medical Association, the Health Association or those on the floor don't do the scales for it. The investigator, Måns Rosén, who is a super skilled person, has worked extremely transparently with the inquiry into specialist care. He has discussed the proposal with nearly 1 000 people in the healthcare sector and the whole of the healthcare sector, with patients and so on. It's a very good investigation. I, who have never worked with healthcare in this way, was a little surprised when I saw that there has been a very marginal concentration of specialist care between 2000 and 2013. It's pretty bad. Of course, the volume of the hospital plays a major role because if the doctor is used to doing a certain type of surgery. That's pretty obvious. We can look at some figures, for example for three-year survival in advanced ovarian cancer. It has risen from 44 percent to 65 percent, after the concentration of operations to Sahlgrenska. Those are crystal-clear numbers. This is how we're gonna work. For the patients' sake, the highly specialised care needs to be concentrated. Sometimes there is prestige in who will perform surgery and so on. You know that. And prestige can kill. I mentioned earlier that Karolinska University Hospital did not allow cancer surgery to take place at Danderyd Hospital – perhaps for reasons of prestige. The Left Party is of the opinion that it is very good that specialised care should be organised at a national level. We need a more concentrated highly specialised care, to fewer hospitals and to fewer performers. When you build up highly specialised care, you are dependent on having a team working together around the patient. It is about equal health care. It is also at the heart of the investigation into highly specialised care until now. The referral bodies are also extremely supportive of this. Maybe SKL didn't really do the wave, but the others did. We can see that specialised care is slipping apart today, and this affects patient safety. Everyone's focus is on making it as good as possible. This increases the conditions for equal care. And the equal development of health care, both regional and class, has long been the main track of the Left. As regards the regional level, it is proposed that healthcare regions themselves decide on the concentration of highly specialised care within their own region. Måns Rosén's investigation instead suggested that care should be regulated at the regional level as well. According to this proposal, the National Board of Health and Welfare would coordinate the highly specialised care at regional level and make recommendations to county councils on what would be carried out regionally. We thought that was a good idea. That would increase patient safety. On the other hand, the government felt that it would make it more difficult for coordination, and so on, to somehow forget the local roots and that this could be crucial for the legitimacy of the proposal. We are quite alone in our view that it should be regulated regionally. But the investigation stands for something completely different. It wanted the regional level to be included in the area of advanced health care. It was also estimated that the National Board of Health and Welfare would be a good force there. Many referrals also supported it. We believe that there is a great risk that there will be no change. It may be as before when it comes to cooperation between different county councils in the regions. When you visit regions, you are sometimes struck by the fact that there is some competition between hospitals, doctors and professors. Everybody wants to build their little babel tower. There is a risk that there will be no coordination. The proposal provides for the appointment of a board of representatives from the health care regions. However, despite the fact that care should be based on patients' best interests, no patient representative will be on the board. Instead, the representatives should sit in the various expert groups, where patients should also be present. There you should go through all the disease groups, make suggestions on which healthcare should perform highly specialised care and so on. The left would have liked to have seen one or rather two patient representatives on the board. This would facilitate both the legitimacy and the implementation of the decisions. But we are quite alone, even on that proposal. We thought that the permits would be valid until further notice was a rather strange idea from the beginning. This would result in a lock-in effect and a weakening of it. We wanted the permits to be followed up. That was one of our reservations. Now everyone's tuned up, so it's a kind of follow-up. I guess it's good that you can influence this, so there won't be any flaws. From the fact that in the past there has been minimalistic intervention in the structure of health care, this proposal should be rushed forward. It'll be quick. It will be clubbed and what I understand will take effect from 1 July 2018. We would have liked to have it slightly later, on 1 January 2020, for it to land correctly. We are also quite alone in that reservation – we in the Left Party are a bit lonely sometimes. But we're good at working together, too. It is great that we take steps forward and have an increased focus on patient safety. Geographical equality in health and human equality due to class is a key issue in health care. For time winning, I only agree to reservation 2. However, I would like to add one thing. The discussion about healthcare and healthcare has become a chicken race. I'm gonna make some quick tapes. We think that the most important investment you can make is on the staff. It is about wages, working hours, working environment and so much. The fact that care has become unboundedly poor during these four years is, of course, about what the right wing did and what others have done when it comes to regulating training efforts nationally and investing in staff. They didn't disappear overnight. It is also largely about working on structural issues – where we are quite agreed – about equality, about class, about regions and about digitalisation. What are we gonna do with it? Should we have digitalization in the county councils that ties in with the businesses, or should we have only Dr. Cash, which can provide quick advice for a cheap money? You might wonder. As I said, I would like to support reservation 2.
i-PUkG1hjWTUrdzxd6YZZrhY	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to ask you to accept reservation 5 in paragraph 6. Mr President, I would like to In order to simplify a little bit, we can say that there are two main movements in the healthcare sector. The difficult is becoming increasingly difficult and complicated, and the simple is becoming simpler and increasingly everyday. What was done only a few years ago at university hospitals in this country today is done in ambulances, in primary care, and even in the home. The road usually goes through county health care hospitals. This flow of treatments and forms of care sometimes causes problems. We have very high demands for flexibility in that particular care segment. These two opposing movements place great demands on coordination, collaboration, good order and very sharp governance and management throughout the healthcare system. It's a flow that's going on and going faster and faster. Mr President, I would like to Swedish healthcare stands out well in international comparisons in terms of both quality and cost-effectiveness. At the same time, we know that there are shortcomings. The regions and county councils clearly have very different conditions and differences in management and governance that make it very difficult for them to offer equal care. The accelerated movements and flows increase these differences in the country, both for medical and technical reasons and because of treatment developments. In order to meet the challenges of treatment, continuity and strong networks around patients, the management of care needs to be changed. Sweden obviously needs strong health care leaders who work together. The governance and management capacity of regions and county councils will be strengthened. At the same time, the state needs a clearer role in terms of the national commitment to health infrastructure – the most difficult – as well as the management and management of where things should be done. The indicative national commitment needs to be increased. In addition, the patient needs to be strengthened through increased opportunities for participation compared to today. There is a need for a shift of power to the benefit of patients in health care. The patient should have the right to be involved in the design of his or her own care and thus be entitled to healthcare that takes greater account of his or her wishes and ability. It is human rights that are at stake. There's only one person who's over-specializing in how you feel, and that's you. Mr President, I would like to Of course, this reasoning leads to the need to concentrate the highly specialised care that we are debating today in a few places in the country. This is a way to ensure quality and create the conditions for strong medical development and for Sweden to remain at the forefront of the world. Since this highly specialised care requires an ever greater patient base than the county councils themselves today, more and more concentration is required. The state should of course decide where the highly specialised care should be carried out. Quality of care is crucial. Regional policy considerations, the interests of the professions or others in this case completely subordinate drivers should not be decisive, as they have been in recent years. I strongly supported the formation of the Swedish National Health Board and thought it was a very good idea. But it has turned out that it does not have the energy to go all the way, Mr President. In fact, there are other driving forces than the patient's quality and results that are caught in the eye. These may be given opinions, but as I said, they have not always been so. With regard to the care of the calibre we are discussing today, it is more important from the patient's point of view to get highly specialised care of the highest quality that single time in life when it is needed than that the care is close. It saves lives, Mr President. In areas where the patient base is very small, for example in extremely rare diagnoses, when extremely expensive technical or medical equipment is required or when it is the very highest level of excellence that is required, we liberals believe that Sweden is too small as well. The highly specialised care at this level should be structured in European specialist centres. It is life-decisive for very few but of the utmost importance for life's sake. Swedish healthcare can benefit from very good international cooperation. Patients can be offered cross-border care. For many, this goes without saying. But this also needs to be strengthened and used more, not least in highly specialised care. The development of healthcare has much to gain from learning from others and comparing its results with those of other healthcare providers – between county councils and regions but also between countries.
i-3d4793c627777c51-556	Mr President, I would like to As many have already said here today, training makes perfect. Training makes perfect is also the title of the investigation that forms the basis of the proposal we are debating here today. This, of course, has its accuracy. According to Måns Rosén's study, the scientific literature and the investigation's own calculations show that about 500 deaths could be avoided and the number of complications and treatment times reduced if the healthcare professionals did more interventions of the same kind and thus had to practice more. This requires a larger number of patients to be treated in the same place, i.e. the treatment that is given less often and requires a high level of competence of several professions to be concentrated in fewer hospitals in the country. It is not easy to be the last speaker. Yesterday when I wrote this speech, I was second on the list, so I will repeat what many have said. Sweden has, as several have pointed out, a high-quality healthcare system, and the medical results are world-class. But as everyone knows, we live in a sparsely populated country with only about 10 million inhabitants. In addition, resources are limited. We must use them in such a way that they are of the greatest benefit to those who need them most. Mr President, I would like to Today's decision is one of two very important decisions for how the development of the Swedish healthcare system should take place with the goal of a high quality and care available to everyone with a focus on patients. Later this spring, we will decide on a first step for healthcare in Sweden to be given primarily close to the population. People who need complex interventions and who often need help and support from care should trust that it is close and that it is provided with a high degree of continuity. At the same time, there is a great deal of agreement, as we have heard here today, that the highly specialised care, which we need more rarely, most never, needs to be concentrated in fewer places. In this way, resources are used more efficiently. The quality of care and research is maintained at a high level, patient safety is guaranteed and staff are given the opportunity to do the same often, so that they are as good at what they do as possible. Today's proposal for change is about replacing the current system of national health care and the national care structure of cancer care with a new decision-making process for national highly specialised care. We Social Democrats support the government's assessment that the current system for concentrating highly specialised national care is ineffective and that it takes too long. The same applies to the assessment by the government of the possibility to review the whole and make impact assessments from a patient's perspective as well as the fact that the level structure lacks a common decision-making body. We also agree with the Government's proposal not to go ahead with events and, at the same time, to regulate regionally highly specialised care, because there is a risk that synergies will be lost and that the process towards concentrated, highly specialised care will be too slow. The decision-making process proposed by the government, which we are going to decide on here today, is to be led by the National Board of Health and Welfare. A decision is to be made on which measures should constitute national high-specialised care – so it should be defined – and on how many units it should be carried out. The decisions must be prepared in accordance with the Government's proposal by expert groups consisting of representatives of both patients and professionals. We think that this is a good proposal, as well as that the decisions on who or who is authorised to carry out highly specialised care should be made by representatives of the healthcare regions and appointed by the government. Mr President, I would like to As many have said here today, healthcare is often a very complex and sensitive system. In many cases it can be difficult to run emergency care if you do not at the same time have access to health care professionals who will perform highly specialised care. If you rumble at one end of a wire, there may well be unforeseen consequences at the other end. We Social Democrats therefore support the proposal for a declaration that the Agency should be entrusted with ensuring patient safety in the regions. Similarly, we agree with the proposal for a declaration to the government that a continuous and early follow-up to the decision-making process should take place. It is extremely important, we believe, that greater concentration of national highly specialised care should be achieved, and it is important that the process should not be delayed or stalled. Mr President, I would like to Swedish healthcare is facing a number of challenges that require change. It is therefore satisfying that the red-green government in this year's budget makes unique multi-billion-dollar investments in health care to enable change work. As a social democrat, I am also pleased with the election promises that Stefan Löfven made last week about 14 000 more services in healthcare, major investments in ambulance care and transport and more investments in different disease groups. I think it is a good way to develop the Swedish model. During the debate today, we are clear that we will have a majority vote for a reservation on setting up a parliamentary inquiry to investigate responsibilities. Anders W. Jonsson mentioned this in his speech. In a parliamentary inquiry, Social Democrats are also supposed to sit. Therefore, I find it interesting to listen to Anders W Jonsson. We have no objection to investigating liability in relation to health care, but it would be interesting to know whether the other bourgeois parties have the same opinion as Anders W Jonsson, that is, that these are the three areas to be investigated. Or is it intended to go further in the management and concentration of care? That would be interesting to hear. With this, Mr President, I would like to support the committee's proposal for a parliamentary decision and rejection of other motions.
i-3d4793c627777c51-572	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for approval of the reservations of the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party, rejection of other reservations and approval of the proposal in general. When I recently went through a toolbox back home that I inherited from my grandfather, I found his safety representative's mark. I have told you about my grandfather earlier here in the speaker's chair and I want to do it again, because I visited his workplace just over a week ago. My grandfather was a shipyard worker in Karlskrona, where I live nowadays, and also a safety representative. His experiences and stories about the work environment at the shipyard and the mission as a safety representative have I carried with me throughout my life. For me, it is particularly honourable to be able to work with the work environment issues based on this, based on how vital the work environment is and how vital the work is that trade union safety representatives and workplace representatives do around the country. Every day they make a difference to all of us, take care of us, and stand up. At my grandfather's workplace, many people have been injured over the years. This is the case in many workplaces in this country. My grandfather had experience of exposure to asbestos himself. It happened to him and several of his workmates, which affected and in many cases shortened their lives. This is what they were subjected to at the workplace. Just last year, 49 people didn't come home from work. There were 49 people who said goodbye to their family, their children, their mate, their love, went to work and did not come home for dinner at night. Work environment issues are vital issues, which is why I think it is important and very good that we take the time to discuss them properly today. I'm glad to be a part of the discussion. Work environment issues are also something that the current government takes very seriously. We have noticed this – since the turn of the government in 2014, there have been major investments. Unfortunately, during this parliamentary term, the first budget became a public budget, which meant that some of the incredibly important efforts to recreate serious work environment work in Sweden had to wait a whole year. It started with some things that didn't cost money, but what cost money had to wait a whole year. That is why we see that some of the effects that we really wanted from improved work environment work are beginning to come out now. It is getting better and more inspections and, above all, more inspectors. There are not always more inspections, but there will be more inspectors and work that has much more support from the government. There are many things that have been invested in during the term of office since the turn of the year 2014/ 15. One thing that has been done is to give a lot of money to the Swedish Work Environment Authority. The Swedish Work Environment Authority lost one third of its budget after the government change when Reinfeldt became Prime Minister. A little later in today's debate, I would like to hear the Moderates reply to why they slaughtered the Swedish Work Environment Agency. One third, or just over 30 percent, of the budget was removed from the Swedish Work Environment Authority after winning the 2006 election. Why did they do that? Was it because one cynically only wanted to destroy work environment work, or were there any other reasons? This is something that has to be told in this House, because we are approaching another election. The elections are only a few months away. What will happen to the work environment if the present government does not rule but the bourgeoisie takes over? Will you again slaughter the work environment, or what will happen? I think it is important that the bourgeoisie and, above all, the Moderates answer those questions. What also happened after the 2006 elections was the closure of the Work Life Institute, i.e. the authority responsible for coordinating research and the important coordination work on health and safety at work and the future of the work environment in Sweden. The Institute was a world leader. People from both Europe and the rest of the world came to Sweden to study the amazing work that was done here. The coordination that was done in research institutions but also with the social partners has been a model, but unfortunately it is not quite as much longer because the Institute was closed down. I would like to hear the reason why it was laid down on the part of the bourgeoisie, preferably from the Moderates, because I know it was they who pushed the question hardest. On 1 June, after a decision by the government, Sweden will again open a centre for health and safety knowledge in Gävle. It will be an authority which will once again be able to deal with these issues and which may be able to re-establish the important work of research. I'm absolutely sure you can, but it might take a little time. We see that this is extremely important. We are seeing today that some problems with the working environment, not least the psychosocial working environment, are increasing. Research and coordination are needed, and there is a need for a centre to take care of it. It starts on June 1st this year. Will it close again at the turn of 2018/ 19 if the Alliance takes over? It is also an important question to which we need answers. What we have heard so far in this Parliament is that the Moderates will once again, without any regret, close it. It is important that Sweden's employees and workers and everyone else in Sweden know about it. I think you should be proud if you voted for the Social Democrats in the last election. We have invested an incredible amount in the work environment. We have invested in research and will start the Centre for Safety and Health at Work. But we have also invested in joint efforts by public authorities against unfair competition. It's incredibly important. We have seen that very many of those who die at work do so in workplaces without any protection and without union organisation, where the Swedish Work Environment Authority has hardly ever been one time. These are places where people are exploited, often people from other countries who have come here. Unsound competition is about people being exploited, and it is time we took it very seriously. The government does so by making money available for this too. The plan is over time to work especially with this from Gothenburg. I think it is really worth mentioning. Currently, about 40 newly trained inspectors are starting at the Swedish Work Environment Authority. They will work not least in the regions and get out to workplaces around the country. I'm thinking about what's going to happen to them after the election. They have learned both outside the Swedish Work Environment Authority and in-house for a number of months. What will happen to them if the Alliance takes over? Sweden has been a leader when it comes to work environment management. We have restored a great deal of it over the last three years. I would like us to continue to do so and that we can actually work to make these things better and better. It is incredibly important that we hear what the Alliance says about this. These are really the issues I wanted to raise most. There are a lot of other things we can mention in the future. I have both lists and other things that apply to a lot of what is happening. We on the part of the government are extremely concerned about these issues. We call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for the citizens' reservations to be rejected.
i-3d4793c627777c51-595	Mr President, I would like to I want to start by agreeing with Magnus Manhammar. I also welcome the efforts on research and more, fully in line with the policy of the Swedish Democrats. It's not that often we agree, but here we are. Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating AU8, the working environment and working time. Of course, I support all the reservations expressed by the Swedish Democrats, but for time to come, I only ask for reservation 10. There are also two announcements addressed to the government today, which the Swedish Democrats support. Mr President, I would like to The employer is responsible for the work environment, and a good work environment is preferably created together with the employees. All companies look different in terms of size, industry and way of working, which means that innovation and change are needed, not least in order for occupational health and safety issues to remain relevant to the labour market in the future. Here, as a political party, one must dare to think again and develop one's politics. The report states that the Social Democrats choose to call the Swedish Democrats inconsistent. We choose to call it taking responsibility, thinking new and daring to develop. We believe that this is obvious because the Swedish labour market is under great change and many of the structures we have been used to for a long time and perhaps take for granted are becoming out of date. This, Mr President, also applies very much to those parts of the regulatory framework dealing with the organisation of health and safety at work, with OSH representatives, regional OSH representatives and OSH committees. For these rules to remain relevant, they need to be reviewed, modernised and adapted to the realities of today and tomorrow. Engagement in health and safety at work is important for everyone at a workplace. Therefore, it is important to be able to capture the interest that exists and give those who want to work with the questions the opportunity to do so, whether you are a member of a trade union or not. Mr President, I would like to On the basis of the changes we are seeing today in the labour market, it is high time to focus on the results of work environment work instead of the forms and to strengthen work environment work where everyone can participate, regardless of membership of a trade union. All employees must have the right to the same conditions and the right to engage in the issues that affect their workplace. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to say something about the Swedish democrats' proposal regarding extended limitation periods for occupational health and safety offences. This is not a new proposal, but we believe it is so important that we lift it again. Today, the limitation period for occupational health and safety offences is normally two years and for serious crimes five years. The Swedish Democrats want to increase this to twice as many crimes are unfortunately time-barred before they can be solved. This is particularly true now that contracts are usually carried out in many stages, and it is employees with the worst conditions who are often affected. What one might find remarkable in this matter is that the Social Democrats do not choose to support this proposal even though they consider themselves to be on the workers' side and despite the fact that several trade unions are pushing the issue and LO wants it to be pursued. There is even a Congress decision by the LO to pursue this issue, and we would in fact have obtained a political majority in this House if the Socialist Group had supported the proposal. It would have been an excellent opportunity to give back a little for the 30 million kronor that the LO leadership confiscates from its members and puts into the Social Democrats' election fund. Unfortunately, however, Mr President, political reality does not look like that, as the rejection of the Swedish Democrats is far more important to the Social Democrats than pursuing issues that benefit all members of the LO. That is to be regretted.
i-3d4793c627777c51-605	Mr President, I would like to I would like to say that the speech by the Swedish Democrats in this House is an insult to generations of employees and union elected representatives who have fought for a better working environment in this country. I mentioned earlier in my speech some of the historical work that has been done, and I say it again: over the years, Sweden has made an incredible contribution to the work environment. It's made a big difference. When the Swedish Democrats say that they are pursuing a policy to improve the working environment for Sweden's employees, it is an insult because it is lying. That doesn't match reality. In reality, Mr President, the Swedish Democrats are, I would say, one of the most anti-labour and anti-labour parties in Swedish history. Only the last parliamentary term, for example, has been pushed hard in this House to prevent collective agreements from being required for procurement. Collective agreements are crucial for us to have union organisation and union elected representatives who review the work environment at the workplace. A major health and safety problem today is fixed-term employment. People are forced to take such employments time and again; they are stacked on one another. A proposal put forward by this government to abolish this was in the Chamber for decision earlier in its term of office. At that time, the Swedish Democrats elected to vote against it as the only party in the Riksdag. I would like to hear from Magnus Persson, who himself has been active in trade unions and taken a stand for his colleagues' work environment, how this is connected. Magnus Persson began his speech by talking about inconsistent labour market policies. I would like to say that this is truly inconsistent: on the one hand, to say that you are in favour of a better working environment but, on the other hand, to do everything to destroy the Swedish working environment.
i-3d4793c627777c51-609	Mr President, I would like to Magnus Manhammar can read the Swedish Democrats' budget. We invest considerably more than the government in working environment work in Sweden. We invest more in training for safety representatives and an institute for research. We invest a lot more money all the way to work environment. You can read it yourself, Magnus Manhammar – that's not weird. Magnus Manhammar is welcome to stand here and ralli a bit over me and what I have worked with; I will then take it and not prolong this. But we invest considerably more money than Magnus Manhammar and the government in the work environment. To call it an affront, Magnus Manhammar and the Social Democrats stand for it. I think that the Swedish Democrats are showing the right direction.
i-3d4793c627777c51-611	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Magnus! What's an affront is that you're not honest with what you want. The fake money that the Swedish Democrats are investing is not real money, because once there is to be a vote here in Parliament on this type of initiative, which we ourselves are running from the government, the Swedish Democrats are voting against. They vote for the Moderates' budget to draw up the positive proposals on health and safety at work. It's inconsistent and sad. I have here a list of examples of what the Swedish Democrats voted against during the last parliamentary term. I mentioned earlier the proposals that have been made during this term of office and the things that are being pursued for the future. The Act on Employment Protection, LAS, wants the Swedish Democrats to break down in order to destroy the basic security of workers in the Swedish labour market. It will have a negative impact on all of us. Here is the list of such things that the Swedish Democrats in the last parliamentary term have voted against when it comes to better working environment: they voted against zero vision when it comes to fatal accidents at work, no to preventive work environment work, no to enhanced occupational health care, no to reinforced work life research, no to more health and safety inspectors and no to freedom of communication for employees in private welfare companies. The list is long, and I can continue to list things for the rest of the day, but we don't have that time. I find it sad that the Swedish democrats claim to be a workers' party while at the same time putting their feet away for the Swedish labour movement, as well as for people who are trade unionists, take a stand for a better working environment and stand up for their colleagues. You run a policy that destroys the work environment. The money that Magnus Persson mentions that the Swedish Democrats have in their budget is just fake money. They don't matter, because you still vote for the Moderates. Then there's no point. Be honest with what you want, and stand up for the politics you have!
i-3d4793c627777c51-616	Mr President, I would like to It is typical Magnus Manhammar to pick some raisins out of the cake and say that we are lying. But it is Magnus Manhammar who lies. Unlike the representatives of the Social Democrats in this debate, I myself have worked as an employee for 25 years and pushed the issue in the construction industry. I know how important it is to have good cooperation between companies and employees. It is a bit surreal if you think that the representative of the Social Democrats Magnus Manhammar has no work experience whatsoever. His only CV on these issues is that he has travelled around as an employee of the left-wing organization Expo and registered people at Swedish workplaces. I myself have been to workplaces where Magnus Manhammar has come to register people's opinions. In my world, these are Stasifasones. This election of representatives shows how the Social Democrats are increasingly losing ground in the Swedish labour movement and the challenges it faces. I think that their representatives in this debate should take time off from politics, perhaps get a regular job, get some shit under their fingernails and see what reality looks like.
i-3d4793c627777c51-621	Mr President, I would like to A good working environment is an important prerequisite for a long and sustainable working life. To achieve a good working environment, you need to work systematically and map, improve and evaluate. Ever since I came to Sweden in the mid-80s, I have been impressed by how the Swedes had thought of so many aspects of the work environment. During this parliamentary term, the Green Party and the Social Democrats have carried out several initiatives of which I am very proud. The work environment strategy for modern working life 2016 – 2020 represents a good level of ambition for health and safety policy. The strategy is financed with more than SEK 100 million annually. It is developed in collaboration with the parties and will be held in 2018. The strategy is a very important part of preventing ill health and accidents and preventing people from being excluded from working life. During the term of office, the Government has also appointed several investigations in the field of health and safety at work. I look forward, for example, to the interim report from the study on working time issues for a sustainable working life, which we will be hearing in a few weeks' time. Finally, I note that preparations are under way for the creation of a new Agency for Safety and Health at Work. This is a very important reform. Mr President, I would like to Today is Women's Day, 8 March, and I would now like to shift the focus from the work that we have done and are proud of to the work that we have ahead of us and the expectations that voters have for delivering further improvements during the next parliamentary term. The future work in the field of health and safety at work needs to focus even more on women's working environment and the conditions in women's dominated professions. Mr President, I would like to One of the biggest challenges we are facing right now is to combat the sexual violence and harassment that occur in the workplace and in the rest of society. Employers have a clear responsibility to ensure that workplaces are safe and free from all forms of violence, harassment and discrimination. In the area of health and safety at work and discrimination, there are many tools and relevant legislation. However, the thousands of metoo witnesses we all heard in the autumn clearly showed that there is a lack of compliance with the regulations. The Metoo movement has taken the step further from giving us testimony to giving us good and concrete suggestions on how to make workplaces safer for women. Representatives of 65 industry calls have agreed on seven action proposals presented in a debate article in Dagens Nyheter the day before yesterday. In addition to the seven proposals, they also highlight the importance of all parliamentary parties voting in favour of the new sex crime legislation, which is based on consent and negligence, for which the Green Party has long fought. Mr President, I would like to Another of our greatest challenges in the field of health and safety at work affects women to a greater extent than men. The reasons for sick leave are stress reactions and adjustment disorders, which have become a major Swedish public health problem. Psychiatric diagnoses are the most common cause of sick leave for women since 2011, and the negative trend has continued since then. The working environment and working conditions in the women's dominated professions are an important explanation for the disappointing figures. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, it is clear that major steps have been taken during the term of office to improve the working environment, but that many major challenges also remain. In the future, we need to focus most on half of the population who are not sufficiently protected from sexual abuse at their workplace and who are threatened by ill health due to shortcomings in the working environment. With those words, I would like to endorse reservations Nos 4 and 7 and reject the remaining reservations. I also support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-3d4793c627777c51-632	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the Centre Party's reservation No 5 in the report to be approved. We're discussing work environment here. We have it very good in Sweden. We're getting healthier and we're living longer and longer. It poses challenges for welfare. We will have to work longer to finance schools, care for the elderly and other welfare benefits in society. It places great demands on society to make it easier for people to change jobs in the middle of life or to re-school if they are no longer able to do the work they are supposed to do. Even with the development that is taking place with digitalisation and automation, there are demands for a better transition than what we have today. But an improved working environment is also needed for people to manage to work longer. In this context, however, I would like to highlight automation and digitalisation linked to the working environment, because the technological development that has taken place has in many ways been fantastic for many people and many people's work. Some jobs that have previously been physically demanding and associated with the danger of life have become safer and less stressful thanks to new technologies. Investing in technological innovation is therefore an important part of improving the working environment. Greater labour market mobility is also needed to meet the challenges. Increased mobility is also needed from a health and safety perspective. There are figures that upwards of one in four people to some extent dislike their workplace. Work environment work is an important part of making people feel better, but also of creating mobility so that people who do not like it can change jobs. Mr President, I would like to In the report, the Alliance receives two announcements based on alliance movements. The first is about helping companies to prevent. Today's labour market looks quite different from before, as it was built on many large companies while it is now in the smaller companies that jobs are emerging. It places demands on authorities, on society, to meet this better. The vast majority of entrepreneurs want a good working environment and want to do the right thing. But it is not always easy with all the rules, laws and regulations to stick to. It is therefore extremely important that the Swedish Work Environment Authority works more with knowledge dissemination and advice and provides better tools to facilitate systematic work environment management. It also needs to be reviewed if all requirements are to apply in the same way to all companies or if they are to be more variable depending on the size of the company in terms of creating better conditions for a better working environment. The second announcement to the government is to improve the procedures for receiving tips and notifications. Here we can make a comparison with our neighbour Norway. The Swedish Work Environment Authority received 1,600 tips in 2015, while Norway received 7,000 tips with about half the population. This has been highlighted in a Swedish National Audit Office report. We think it is important to create better opportunities to receive tips and notifications for the Swedish Work Environment Authority. As we in the Center Party write in our reservation, we think that the Swedish Work Environment Authority also needs to have an expanded criminal investigation mission linked to human trafficking and other abuses that we can see in the Swedish labour market. Mr President, I would like to Today is International Women's Day, which I think is important to highlight precisely when we are discussing the working environment. I want to do it from two parts. One is that we are seeing worrying developments in many women-dominated industries. Unfortunately, the working environment is getting worse, we are seeing more and more complaints about occupational diseases, and it is mainly women who are affected. The Alliance has a special opinion in the report which points to the need to work further in relation to women-dominated sectors. It will be included in another report, so I will leave it at that. But it is important that the government continues to work on these issues, but also municipalities and county councils, as it is primarily within municipalities and county councils that these jobs exist. Mr President, I would like to Let me also address the major issue of health and safety at work that emerged during the autumn in connection with the Metoo movement. I think we were all horrified by the stories shared by women who have been subjected in different ways to both sexual harassment and abuse in all industries and workplaces throughout the country. Measures are needed here to strengthen the possibility for everyone to have a safe workplace and not have to be exposed to this at work. After the general period of exercise, the Centre Party has made a number of suggestions in a number of areas. This occurs throughout society, so it is not only in working life that we see these problems. However, in the labour market area, I would like to highlight the possibility for companies to more easily dismiss people who commit sexual abuse or harass their colleagues – this so that those who have been exposed can feel safe and secure in their work environment, regardless of the industry in which they work.
i-3d4793c627777c51-646	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the post, Fredrik! I have a question. We heard Fredrik Christensson say in his speech that smaller companies do not have to meet the same demands on the working environment. Are there examples of what should be facilitated? Or should there be lower occupational health and safety regulations for employees in some companies? It may be easy to express yourself rhetorically that it should be simpler. But which people might have a worse working environment?
i-3d4793c627777c51-647	Mr President, I would like to I think Magnus Manhammar deliberately tried to misinterpret me or maybe I was unclear. Then I'll try to clarify myself. I think there is reason to look at whether there should be the same regulation in all companies. What I wanted to point out was, above all, the bureaucracy linked to the work of the working environment, but also in several other respects, which we have debated in this House, for the smaller companies. To red tape or demand more of the smaller companies means that they have to spend more time on it instead of developing their activities. I think that's an important part to look at.
i-3d4793c627777c51-649	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Center Party for the answer, but I didn't really get it. I would like to hear what kind of bureaucracy is going to be simpler. Lately, almost every week I have been out in companies, not least in smaller companies with a few employees. Here work environment work is more an advantage, and none of the companies I have been to have said that it is too tricky or too much rules. On the contrary, they see it as an advantage that they can ensure that they have good health for those who are employed and that it works well. Again, what needs to be simplified? It is good for us to know so that we can then take that debate.
i-3d4793c627777c51-652	Mr President, I would like to I am also out at many smaller companies, and I share the view that the working environment is important. There's no difference. As the labour market changes right now, the working environment will be one of the most important things for companies to compete with. Today, the biggest problem is skills shortages, and then companies need to have a good working environment, along with other parts, in order for people to go there. One concrete example is supervision. Here we are pushing, linked to all authorities, for better conditions to coordinate these parts. There are parts of the labour market area where there is a need to see a little difference in the regulatory framework for large and small businesses, so as not to impose too much burden on the smaller ones. And above all: In our announcement we highlight the possibility of giving tips on how to improve work environment management. The big problem for smaller companies is that if they do not have information on how to do it, it is not easy to do the right thing. Therefore, the Swedish Work Environment Authority must work more to give tools and tips to the smaller companies in particular so that it can do the right thing in the work environment.
i-3d4793c627777c51-657	Mr President, I would like to Today, when we debate the report on the working environment and working time, it is, as many have noted, 8 March, i.e. International Women's Day. It is a day of celebration and struggle that was once established by the Socialist International with leading names such as Clara Zetkin and Rosa Luxemburg. Every year, this day offers an opportunity to reflect on the battles that have been made for women's rights and those that very much remain to be brought to success. Even in a country such as Sweden, where we have gone further in many areas than in most other countries, there are unfortunately great injustices that affect women, not least in working life. It is about wages, it is about the existence of precarious employment relationships, and it is about the area that is currently under consideration, i.e. the working environment and working time. Several have mentioned the extremely powerful movement that gathered under #metoo and showed how virtually all women's freedom, sexuality and integrity are extremely often violated by men's cleavage and abuse of power in all spheres of life, not least in working life. One of the most obvious structural factors that emerge in the multitude of stories of abuse and abuse is that a vulnerable and unequal power relationship is a powerful catalyst for this type of event. If you do not dare to say anything out of fear of losing your job or not having more hours or missions, that of course makes the situation more difficult. If you want to take these issues seriously, it is necessary to analyse things that create or deepen such problematic power relations and also be prepared to do something about them. Today's report deals with a limited group of movements from general exercise time. It will therefore be important to emphasise that the effective measures that can be taken to improve the working environment often relate to labour law, trade union organisation and functioning safety representatives. For example, in the labour professions, L O has pointed out that it is about 50 percent more common for women in precarious employment to be subjected to sexual harassment at work. It is therefore obvious that a central feminist requirement must be to improve the security of employment and abolish, for example, the general fixed-term form of employment. It is also important to strengthen the position of safety ombudsmen, not least regional safety ombudsmen, as they have a special role where trade union activity is less developed and the risk of standing without support in an unsustainable working environment is therefore greater. These are proposals which the Left Party has been pursuing in other contexts and which we will continue to clarify, pay attention and raise. Mr President, I would like to We are proud, in cooperation with the government, to have got through some things that relate to health and safety at work during these years. Magnus Manhammar was in on some of these, for example in terms of increased resources for the Swedish Work Environment Agency and to deal with the unfortunate situation that arose when the previous government closed down the Swedish Work Life Institute. It is an important work that needs to continue. In the rest of my speech, I will touch on some of the issues where we have reservations in this report. Bullying and abusive treatment can have dramatic consequences for those affected. Unfortunately, this is not a peripheral issue, because according to the Swedish Work Environment Authority, as many as one in ten workers feel bullied by their boss or by other workers. This primarily leads to great mental suffering, but it also increases the risk of becoming physically ill. Researchers at the Danish Centre for Safety and Health at Work have shown that violations at work can have the same physical effect as post-traumatic stress. According to the Work Environment Act, employers must prevent harassment and bullying. However, the employer who does not give priority to such a job or remedying bullying today does not have to answer for it. Here, like the Vision trade union, which has made its own proposals in this area, we believe that it would be possible to strengthen legislation and also to take other measures to improve the situation. Another issue concerns occupational health care, which, in my opinion and that of the Left Party, has an important role to play in a modern and dynamic working life. Despite legislation on the need for occupational health care, the proportion of workers who have access to occupational health care at their workplace has fallen. Now the figure is just over 60%, compared with the end of the 1980s, when nearly 90% of workers were covered by occupational health care. It is also worth pointing out that access to occupational health care is based on familiar class and gender patterns. Within LO groups, fewer people have access to occupational health care, especially women. In smaller workplaces and in sectors with a lot of part-time work and work on inconvenient working hours, access to occupational health care is the worst. For the Left Party, it is important that all employees have access to quality-assured occupational health care with industry knowledge, which works strategically with preventive work environment management. It is a question of justice in the labour market. It is also an important building block if you want to create a labour market where more people can work until they are 65 or more. This is a social debate that we have now. There are demands from both the right-wing opposition and the government that people should be prepared to work higher up the age group and that sickness rates must be pushed down. But strikingly often, unfortunately, even government representatives lack a working class and gender perspective in this debate, or, more simply, reality. What work you have and what the conditions on that job look like will make a big difference if you are to be able to work for a higher pension or avoid high sick leave. The latter often shows up after long-term illness, i.e. working on despite ailments and weariness until you can't take it anymore. This would mean that a broad focus on occupational health care would be a far more reasonable and better way of helping than punishing people financially once they have been torn down in the workplace. The Left Party has exercised the right to set up an investigation to work with the social partners, who of course have a central role here, to develop proposals on how to create compulsory, effective, quality-assured and professional occupational health care covering all workers. It is also something that we will continue to pursue in different contexts. I would like to see more of us acting together in the future to invest in the expansion of occupational health care. Mr President, I would like to The issue of working time, both its length and its organisation, is central to all people who work, to all who have close relations with people who work for wages and to the organization of society as a whole. For those of us who want to develop society in a more human and just direction, in a direction where more people have real opportunities to develop and live enriching lives, it is natural to see a general reduction in working time as an important progressive step for enlarged freedom. The conditions for a general reduction in working time are good. Productivity has doubled in Sweden since the 1970s. At the same time, the share of wages in total output has fallen. So there is financial scope for reducing working time. At the same time, the needs are clear. Today, working life is characterized in many ways by increased intensity, stress and high tempo. This in turn leads to ill health, stress-related diseases and sick leave. The unequal distribution of unpaid domestic work between women and men remains, as does the fact that more women than men work part-time, which reduces women's economic independence. In addition to this, we also know that the ecological viability of the earth requires a different consumption pattern with lower consumption of non-renewable resources. A general reduction in working time would contribute to reducing ill health, increasing gender equality and reducing labour market gaps and sustainable development. The Left Party has been driving a number of projects to reduce working time around the country. A very successful example is the attempt at Svartedalen's retirement home in Gothenburg. For two years, the staff worked six hours at full pay. The result was less stressed personnel, fewer sick leave and more satisfied care recipients. Two new trials are now being carried out with a reduction in working hours in the Gothenburg area, one for the social secretaries in Angered and one for the preschool staff in Bergsjön. We want to broaden these successful attempts. As a first step towards a general reduction in working time, the Left Party proposes a national initiative that means that the state allocates funds for six hours of working day at an establishment in each municipality and county council in Sweden. The initiative should be voluntary for municipalities and county councils, and applications are handled in each municipality, county council or region. This can be done, for example, in health care, care for the elderly or social services. We want such an initiative to last for three years and then to be evaluated. This is how both valuable experience and scientific knowledge can be gathered. It is a reform to create a more sustainable and dynamic working life, a reform to face the future with open arms and wise heads. Mr President, I would like to We have reservations about the proposals I have made and more than that. I am, of course, in favour of all of them, but today, for time-winning, I am only in favour of reservation 11.
i-3d4793c627777c51-685	Mr President, I would like to A good working environment is important for many parties, as several speakers before me have said. This is important for the individual worker, for the employer, for the development of companies and for the economy as a whole. A good working environment is also important for people to feel good, for sick leave to be kept down and for life outside the workplace to work. Work environment issues are important but also complex many times. In addition, the working environment has strong gender equality policy aspects. Women's absenteeism is considerably higher than men's, and it is a development that has been strengthened over time. Now the whole difference certainly does not depend solely on the work environment, but we know that women are more affected than men by work environment-related problems such as sleep problems, anxiety about the job and difficulties in relaxing their thoughts at work in their spare time. The issue of women's sick leave and occupational health and safety problems is important to develop and pay attention to improving the working environment, reducing sick leave and improving well-being. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Work Environment Authority shall carry out inspections to ensure that workplaces comply with the requirements of the Act regarding the working environment. However, the number of inspections is too small. In 2015, only just over 3 per cent of all workplaces with employees were inspected, and this is a low figure. We Christian Democrats propose a system of health and safety declarations in which the company, through employers and employees, can fill out a form from the Swedish Work Environment Authority on matters relating to the working environment. In this way companies would be treated equally, and the employer would have good support in developing the company's work environment. This is a model that would simplify and make it cheaper, and it is one way to develop the working environment. Of course there are risks with the model just as it does with many models, but the Swedish Work Environment Authority should start a trial with work environment declarations and then be able to evaluate the outcome and see if it is something that we should permanent. Mr President, I would like to The report also deals with working time issues. The introduction of shorter working hours is something that has been done in several workplaces. In many workplaces, working time banks have been set up, allowing workers the freedom to choose when they want to spend shorter working hours. In other places, you can choose shorter working hours against lower wage increases, but this must be a negotiation between the parties, not from the Riksdag. Lower working hours can be a way to reduce stress by increasing leisure time. However, reduced working hours can also increase stress if the same tasks are to be performed in a shorter time or if a shortage of staff causes work to be undone. Strongly increased hourly wages can also lead to companies not getting plus and minus joining forces and thus increasing unemployment. There are probably few who do not want to work less with retained pay, but it is naive to think that this would not have other effects in terms of, among other things, increased stress, reduced profitability and higher costs. Mr President, I would like to With this speech, I am in favour of reservation 6.
i-3d4793c627777c51-693	Mr President, I would like to I hope that the President will sit comfortably in the chair, because this will be a long speech. In the motion report on the working environment and working time, we have two announcements to the government. The first is that the OSH strategy should extend its scope to initiatives that facilitate good prevention by employers in all sectors. The second is that the Government should take measures so that the Swedish Work Environment Authority can introduce improved procedures for receiving tips and notifications. In view of the fact that the Alliance managed to obtain a majority for parts of its policy, the Moderates have no reservations in the report. On the other hand, we have various proposals in this area which are dealt with in other reports, which is why we have a number of specific opinions. There is a motion in the Alliance's motion which will be dealt with in the report on equality. We believe that the government should take measures to improve the working environment in women-dominated jobs. Furthermore, the Moderates propose that the government take measures to address women's ill-health, as is also mentioned in the report on gender equality. The Moderates have proposed measures in which the Swedish Work Environment Authority will carry out supervision of the psychosocial work environment of vulnerable groups, which has already been dealt with in the National Budget. As the proposal is a driving force for expenditure, we do not deal with it in this matter. Mr President, I would like to I have mentioned before that the Alliance has two announcements, and it is worth repeating. One is that the Government's strategy for health and safety at work should include initiatives that make it easier for employers in all sectors to carry out good preventive work environment management. Only 56% of all employees in Sweden state that there is systematic work environment management at their workplaces. Although the working environment is good in Sweden from an international perspective, it is worrying that the number of reported accidents at work is increasing. Another worrying trend is that the number of reports of occupational diseases among women due to organisational or social problems has increased since 2009. The labour market is largely composed of small businesses, and they do not have the same resources as large companies or public authorities to meet the challenges that exist in terms of health and safety at work. It could be access to research, for example. We believe that the state should improve knowledge dissemination and advice and provide better tools to facilitate systematic work environment management. Not least, we can make the regulations more understandable and simpler. It's supposed to be easy to do the right thing. The red-green government likes to assume that Sweden is still made up of large industries, only public employers in the welfare, farming and co-operative employers. But the statistics say something completely different. Only 0.1 per cent of our Swedish companies have more than 250 employees. A completely different approach is needed from the government to SMEs. Mr President, I would like to The second announcement – where the Riksdag runs over the Government, to put it bluntly – is that the Government should take action so that the Swedish Work Environment Authority can introduce improved procedures for receiving tips and notifications. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that tips and notifications could be used to a greater extent to detect workplaces with a poor working environment. Of course it has improved much in this area, but not enough. Activities can be improved, including through more cooperation with other authorities. Regrettably, the Swedish labour market should prevail, otherwise it will lead to unsound competition. Mr President, I would like to In 2016, every fifth person employed had some kind of problem caused by the work – it is a matter of physical or mental problems – which also has an impact on their leisure time. It is a huge waste of resources with people's lives and power, as it can be prevented if you work systematically and long-term with the working environment. Nowadays, it is often more and more a matter of problems arising from stress, work content or poor relationships with managers and co-workers. Of course, the private situation, which can affect how you feel, must not be completely ignored either. Unfortunately, Mr President, it is women who are the worst in working life – women who work at the heart of welfare and who are our bearers of society. Most often they work with a public employer as a state, municipality or county council. There, politics must be much better. Another reason is that you do not have time for recovery at work and that you cannot control your working life. This is largely about having freedom over your life, where you see the individual and not the collective, which the Social Democrats and the Left usually want to do. Women's work-related health is a major gender equality challenge. Since 1980, women have had a higher absenteeism than men. Basically, this is about having an equal labour market, and the feminist government seems to be failing on this point too. Working life is changing, and we can see that the psychosocial environment is becoming increasingly important, and special efforts must be made there. It is largely about better leadership in the organization. The number of job-related deaths has remained at a reasonably steady level in recent years. Of course, each death is a tragedy for the family, relatives, and workmates. There are various causes of death at work. Of course, some people can prevent and work away. But others are, unfortunately, pure accidents that have been very difficult to predict. Either way, it is unacceptable for a person to have to die because of his or her work. The Moderates are pleased that the government continues with the work that the Alliance started to stimulate strategies that give work environment management a longer-term focus. However, the government has missed that the labour market does not look like it did 50 years ago or just 5 years ago. We live in a world where information technology is changing the role of employers and workers. Work and leisure run together. We cannot imagine the future labour market, which may be largely based on a completely different economy from life-long permanent employment. Mr President, I would like to This government is a master at raising taxes, and now it wants to increase taxes even on health insurance. It is a counterproductive proposal. If you want the working environment in Sweden to improve, how is it that the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left propose a tax on health insurance? This will only lead to more people having to make use of public health care. It will not be better for those who are employed in public health care, and it will not provide people with care on time. This will only mean that the queues in healthcare will increase further. As you know, the care queues have doubled during the Red-Green government. We have the longest healthcare queues throughout Europe, and now they will be even longer with this proposal. Of course, I would just like to point out that Stockholm County Council, which is under alliance control, has the shortest care queues. The left suggests that we work less but get paid in full. Who will pay for this, Mr President? The left's answer, of course, is that this should be done through increased taxes. But it is incomprehensible how we can maintain a well-being with such a strange proposal that lowers productivity and the whole of Sweden's economy. That policy doesn't make sense. Mr President, I would like to I would like to make another point when it comes to dealing with taxpayers' money. It is of course important that the Swedish Work Environment Authority discloses accurate and factual information. Unfortunately, however, the Swedish Work Environment Authority has just wasted millions of dollars on an app called The boss. It was later withdrawn because there was so much criticism of this information effort. In this app employers were portrayed as villains, when, of course, the reality is the opposite. The entrepreneurs are some of Sweden's heroes. Of course, the intention of the Swedish Work Environment Authority was not that this would happen. But in view of the current financial situation of the Swedish Work Environment Authority – you have negative government capital and you have to borrow money for your operation – it is slightly ironic that you waste money on nothing. At the same time, 25 employees will be transferred to Mölndal at a cost of approximately 25 million. 20 of these 25 employees do not exist, as only 5 have worked in the field of unfair competition. Nor is it a good way of dealing with taxpayers' money. I really wonder how the government thought when they chose to move 25 employees when there are only 5.
i-3d4793c627777c51-724	Mr President, I would like to I thank Erik Andersson for an interesting speech, and I have two questions for the Moderates and Erik Andersson. I think it is important to know that these issues of health and safety at work are very ideological, although this may not sound so in this debate. In my speech earlier, I said that it was incredibly clear that there were ideological differences before the 2006 elections in terms of what they wanted to do with health and safety policy. What happened when the Reinfeldt Government took over in 2006, as I mentioned in my speech, was that the Alliance closed down the Institute for Work. It was a world-leading institute in research on work environment. The Swedish Work Environment Authority's budget was also cut by one third. It really destroyed a large part of work environment work and what was, as it were, the backbone of work environment work. I'm thinking about what happens if the Alliance wins the election. Why do the Moderates want to close the new Centre for Work Environment Knowledge in Gävle, which will open in June? Why would you put it down if the Alliance were to take over? That is a very good question to which we would like answers. My second question is: Will the Moderates again make massive cuts to the Swedish Work Environment Authority if they win the choice?
i-3d4793c627777c51-729	Mr President, I would like to I thank Magnus Manhammar for the question. You can't put down something that doesn't exist. This center hasn't started yet. On the first question, Sweden has about 540 authorities. When the alliance government took office, it had a reform agenda for the Swedish authorities. The Institute was an authority that you consider to be a world leader. But in many ways they were also involved in projects such as six hours' workday, which the taxpayer had to pay. It is not something that I think we should do here in Sweden. It is true that the Swedish Work Environment Authority had a cut in its budget. But in 2009 the money increased from the alliance government to the Swedish Work Environment Authority. The strangest thing, Mr President, is that the number of inspections increased during the alliance government – even though less money was given. With a different language, we would say that they increased their efficiency, and that is not wrong. We should always deal effectively with taxpayers' money. In our 2018 draft budget, we have exactly the same budget for the Swedish Work Environment Authority as the Social Democrats. So I don't think the Swedish people need to worry, because the working environment is an important issue. I understand that the Social Democracy sometimes tries to scare the Swedish people with the right-wing ghost, but only little children believe in ghosts. I don't think the Swedish people do.
i-3d4793c627777c51-734	Mr President, I would like to It is important that we clarify this, and it is good that we have answers to the questions. Now I only got the answer to one question, so I will ask for an answer to the first question one more time. As regards the number of inspectors before the major cut in 2006 – 2007, there were 389 inspectors at the Swedish Work Environment Authority in 2006. In 2011, they were 251, and even more so. Inspections have been reduced over time – quite seriously. It is a major reduction from 2006 to today. Now we are trying to get a lot of inspectors back, which has been difficult. There have been quite a lot of retirements, but over the past year the number has finally increased – from 243 inspectors in 2016 to 286 now at the turn of the year. You aim to lie on 300 again, so you aim to come back. But you are far from the good level you still had before 2007. However, the most important issue is, once again, another one. It is a fact – and the Moderates have already insisted on this here in the Riksdag – that they want to close the new Centre for Health and Safety at Work that will coordinate the research that exists. It has been a problem that the research that exists on occupational health and safety knowledge has now become fragmented. It is found in different parts of the country, from up at Luleå University to Lund, Linköping and Gävle. It becomes fragmented, and there is no coordination. We need coordination. Why do the Moderates want to shut this down? It opens on 1 June; after a long time we have got to this, and it will now be built up. Why do you want to put it down? Is it ideologically conditioned, or what is the reason why you want to close it?
i-3d4793c627777c51-739	Mr President, I would like to It's gonna be a little weird when you say we're gonna put down something that doesn't exist, Magnus Manhammar. With regard to the Institute for Working Life, the Alliance felt that the research would take place at the academic universities – at universities and colleges – just like today. Now the Social Democrats want to remove this research from the academic institutions and form a completely new authority. Be that as it may, we can't put down anything that doesn't exist. We have not spent money on this in the budget, but we believe that research in the field of work should lie in our universities and colleges – just as much other research is being carried out there. It's not that strange. Mr President, I would like to So I think the rhetorical approach of saying that we are putting down something that does not exist is strange. I also believe that the Swedish people know better.
i-3d4793c627777c51-742	Mr President, I would like to I noticed that Erik Andersson said that there will be lower productivity with shorter working hours. It is a slight misunderstanding of what the concept of productivity means; it is therefore production per hour worked. However, if I were to try to correct all the misunderstandings in Erik Andersson's speech, I would have to be here all evening. My question is somewhat concerned with the joy of Erik Andersson's attention to the fact that women often have poor working conditions. I tried to find out what is to be done to improve women's working conditions and how, for example, the Moderates now want to complement their previous policies – what has been mentioned about closing down the Work Life Institute and cutting back on the Swedish Work Environment Authority – with some other measures to improve women's working conditions. If I look at the policy of Moderates in general, I understand that one wants to take, among other things, those areas where women obviously have more difficulty than men in the labour market, that is, where they have precarious employment conditions and such things, and think: We should have more of that. It would therefore be somewhat strange, inverted and magically improving women's working conditions if, for example, employers' opportunities to treat workers arbitrarily were extended. For example, they want to extend the probationary period and reduce the regulations provided by the Employment Protection Act. The Moderates also want to reduce tax revenue significantly, and so the women who today have few colleagues would have even fewer colleagues. I would like to know how this in Erik Andersson's world of performances can improve women's working conditions.
i-3d4793c627777c51-746	Mr President, I would like to If I understand the question correctly, it is about how moderate policy can generally improve women's working conditions. Or have I got that wrong, given that my speech contained so many ambiguities? This is the case, Mr President, that the Left Party believes it is working towards greater equality. In fact, however, their policies mean that women have less say in matters. We can look at it historically – only take the bill on welfare gains. This proposal seeks to ban mainly women entrepreneurs, for the vast majority of entrepreneurs in freedom of choice are women. It is also a question of, for example, being able to choose an employer. When I grew up we had two television channels, and it was only the state, municipalities and county councils that delivered welfare. This is not a good situation for women. I know a lot of people who work in health care, and they think it is excellent that they have more employers to choose from. They find it excellent that there are many female entrepreneurs in the health and social care sector, for example. They think it's excellent to have a close relationship with your boss, which you don't get in a larger organization. This will improve women's health, and the working environment will also improve.
i-3d4793c627777c51-749	Mr President, I would like to I didn't get answers to any of my questions, but it didn't do much because Erik Andersson's contributions were very funny in many other ways. It was interesting, among other things, that his historical perspective consisted of mentioning a bill to be presented in a few weeks' time and where the debate has taken place over the past year. I understand that it is perhaps problematic for Erik Andersson to go further back in history when it comes to gender issues; they have opposed women's right to vote and then continued along that path. Nevertheless, I remain at what Erik Andersson mentioned in the discussion about profits in welfare, where there are indeed many women who work. Erik Andersson's party, together with other colleagues and now the Swedish Democrats, struggles with beaks and claws for the right to take tax money and transfer it to private profits instead of, for example, using them to give the employed women and men in welfare more colleagues. It's like the most important thing; the right to draw tax money is central to Erik Andersson. Of course, as everyone knows, the large companies that are inside and collecting money from these businesses are, of course – like other large companies in Sweden – mainly led by men. But I ask again how fewer colleagues and lower job security will help different people in the labour market, but especially women, to get a better working situation and a better working environment. Now that care was taken up, I can also throw in the question of Erik Andersson, for example, see the New Karolinska Hospital as an example in this regard.
i-3d4793c627777c51-754	Mr President, I would like to Now I think leftist Ali Esbati almost reduces me when he says different things. Firstly, the right did not actually vote against the reform of voting rights and women's voting rights. So I think you should go and read the history book, Ali Esbati. Secondly, we have no policy for fewer hands in healthcare. To be honest, it is rather the case that the high taxes that we have at work today mean that people do not want to work extra in health care. I have a friend who's a nurse. He says he can't take any more passports because he'll have to pay such high government taxes. It's crazy that we live in a country where a nurse has to pay government taxes. As a result, you may not work extra because more than half go to the state and you get less than half in your own wallet. We have no policy where we say that there should be fewer hands in healthcare. On the contrary, we want more hands in healthcare. Stockholm County Council is an excellent example of how to do it, as you give nurses who want to specialistly train themselves the opportunity to get paid during the education. It's great, because it's probably the number of people in healthcare that is important, and it's hard to get staff, for example nurses. We are very happy that Stockholm County Council has this initiative in order to get more hands in the care. The tax increases that you are proposing on work– I think the government has raised the tax by 40 billion now – are evil for Sweden and for everyone who works in welfare.
i-3d4793c627777c51-761	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the Liberals' reservation 2 to be approved under paragraph 1. Otherwise, I support the committee's proposal as a whole. Mr President, I would like to It is important to emphasise in this debate that a good working environment is perhaps one of the most important prerequisites for coping with a long and sustainable working life. It contributes both to productivity in society and to high participation in the labour market and to the ability of us to have a high employment rate. To achieve this, of course, a clear and effective health and safety legislation is needed where the employer has obligations to prevent both mental and physical illness. It is about physical work environment to prevent injuries, which is quite obvious, but also about discrimination, harassment, bullying and a psychosocial work environment that you actually need to take increasingly seriously. Mr President, I would like to Liberals believe that it is important for employers to be given the right conditions for organisationally preventing occupational health and safety injuries, both psychological and physical. This may, for example, be about training, but it is also about catching up statistics to be able to proceed with in order to prevent damage in a constructive way. A particularly worrying trend is that reports of occupational diseases among women due to organisational and social problems have increased for seven consecutive years. It is also very serious that it is in the politically-governed organisations, our public organisations, that burnout and psychological damage increase most. We politicians, in our organizations, are world champions at punishing people from the labour market and giving them sick leave. That is not acceptable. We need to be much better at preventing this. The Liberals today state that we have huge problems not only in working life but in society as a whole, precisely with mental health problems. It is a global problem that certainly has some common features in the Western world and in countries where we are similar. But that, Mr President, is a major problem here in Sweden. Mental illness is today the second most common cause of sick leave, and among women it is the most common cause. Worst is it among those who work in the public sector. Against this background, I believe that the government actually needs to take proper further action in line with what is stated in this report in order to ensure the working environment in all workplaces in all environments and for all employees.
