i-16549c8b2ba66885-16	Madam President, I would like More needs to be built, and it needs to be built right. What, then, is right? In the labour market, we have been talking about matching problems for a long time. This is increasingly true of the housing market. Those who need and require housing cannot pay the rents for the apartments available. They also do not get loans if they would like to buy a house or an apartment. What is being built is primarily aimed at those who already have housing, and they do not move. This is because they are satisfied where they live, because they think that the fees and rents are too high in new production, that they do not get loans because of amortisation requirements and that they have to pay taxes. There are different reasons, but in short: they do not move there. Today we are debating planning and construction in a broad sense. There's been a lot of exercise. I would like to raise an issue where I had hoped that the government had done more, namely national interests. The former Prime Minister flew over our country and said there was a lot of land. Yes, there is, but it's not buildable. Large parts are protected by national interests, and sometimes not only one but several. What, then, hampers housing construction? I would say that national interests are one of several factors. The system of national interests is obsolete. It has been criticised for making it more difficult to plan new housing. Unfortunately, it now seems from the investigation that has been developed that the number of national interests may increase by authorities from various quarters pointing out their spheres of interest and claims to national interests. The national interest system as it works today is an obstacle to increased housing construction. A national interest is supposed to be a valuable area to be preserved for the future. The system was built up for several decades but has since more or less been left wind by the political system. National interests must preserve opportunities for the future or nurture the history of future generations. But the system is unwieldy and obsolete and has also received criticism from, among other things, the Swedish National Audit Office. The Swedish National Audit Office noted that the government's handling of these national interests makes planning of new housing difficult for municipalities. The Swedish National Audit Office also pointed out that the municipalities do not receive sufficient support from the county boards, which in turn do not receive sufficient support from Boverket. After the Swedish National Audit Office announced its criticism, the Riksdag agreed to appoint the Swedish Investigation of Interest, which presented its final report in December 2015. The investigation stated that it does not see national interests as the most important explanation for the country's inadequate building act. In my opinion and the Christian Democrats, the current housing shortage is not just a result of this. Several factors work together to make housing construction expensive, complicated and slow. In fact, national interests are such a factor. The system should therefore be critically reviewed on the basis of its inhibitory effects on the creation of housing. Today, any authority without political influence can identify areas that it considers to be national interests. For example, the National Heritage Office has identified 1,650 areas as national interests for cultural environmental protection. Today, 55% of Sweden is of national interest. Each authority also has its own criteria when it identifies national interests. Once a national interest is identified, it will be there forever. But society is constantly changing, and what was considered to be national interests yesterday does not necessarily have to be tomorrow. The national interest system as it works today is an obstacle to housing construction and does not contribute to sustainability. For my part, I can say that I was rather discouraged when the investigation came, because it did not propose to make housing construction a national interest. I am also concerned that the number of national interests may still increase. I do not think that this development will lead to more housing. I understand that it is very difficult to agree on a ranking when everyone thinks their interests are important and many interests also overlap geographically. However, in the situation we are currently in, we must look at the location of the buildable land. I also find it difficult to see that the investigation that has been carried out will go through if you do not have Sweden's Municipalities and County Council with you. Municipalities usually want more power and greater self-determination. When their central organisation is critical of the fact that more power would end up at municipal and regional level, it is very telling. It's not exactly that SKL usually wants to renounce power. Göran Cars, professor at KTH Royal Institute of Technology, has said: Housing construction is probably a greater national interest than many others. I can only agree. Yes, we in the Alliance were involved in setting up this investigation. But interests were to be weighed even when the directives were drafted and, to be honest, it did not turn out so good. I do not think that the investigator has interpreted the directives quite correctly either. I understand, therefore, that the government is continuing to prepare the question. But to be honest, we need a new investigation. I think it is a pity that more has not been done by the present government. But as many authorities have different perspectives, so do different departments, perhaps also different parties. Maybe that's an explanation for the government's slowness in the matter. With this, I would like to endorse reservation 1.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-30	Madam President, I would like I thank Caroline Szyber for a good speech. Then I can skip the national interests, which I was going to talk about. This also shows how the Alliance is united and united and has an offensive agenda to boost housing construction in Sweden. In the run-up to this debate, I took three samples from reality. One is: The government has killed the market for tenant-ownership. That's what Hans Wallenstam Wallenstam to Dagens Industri. Another is: The housing shortage forces companies to move from Stockholm. That is what one entrepreneur says to the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. The third is that 600 000 people are in the housing queue in Stockholm, and it is a record-long queue. It may take up to ten years to get a tenancy agreement, reported Swedish Television recently. So how far have we come since Tage Erlander's classic quotes on television when in the late 60s in an election debate he was asked what a young couple would do to get a place in Stockholm? Everyone knows what he said: Get in line! Of course, this cannot continue. Much, much more is needed in the area of housing policy. What has happened in recent years, of course, is the migration challenge and the population growth of big cities. In rural areas there are two problems. One problem is that you lose people, and another problem is actually that you get people because a lot of new arrivals come – new arrivals who have a weak ability to pay. This also places demands on us in politics. According to Boverket's forecast, 600,000 new homes need to be built by 2025, and in order to achieve this goal we cannot continue as before. We need a reform agenda, a desire and a drive for action from the policy to ensure that we get the building of housing going. These are very long planning times, and the housing construction we have seen in recent years is an effect of the Alliance's previous policy. This morning I was sitting at the train station talking to a leading representative of a large construction company. I told him about this housing policy debate, and he said: I must give an example. A municipality in central Sweden contacted us at our company and asked us to build a building site. From the time the municipality made contact and it started planning for the first tenant to move in it took eight years. Eight years, Madam President! And there is only one person who pays for this, and it is the tenant who is moving in. Apart from the fact that it takes a long time, there are huge costs over these eight years, and we cannot go on. There is a need for change in the Planning and Construction Act, and a major reform is needed in this area. Another thing that concerns me is that young people do not have the opportunity to own their home. I think that you should both have the opportunity to get a rental right and to own your home. When the whole Committee on Civil Liberties went to Vienna in Austria, we could see the rental model that was mentioned there. That is something that I think we should look at very carefully. I think we should look at how you could move into a dwelling and start by renting. After 15 years you can make a choice: Do I want to buy my apartment, or should I continue renting? I think that would be reasonable to look at together. Strandskydd is something that has been talked about very much in my constituency in Gävleborg and also in the rest of Sweden. There are inland municipalities that say something like this: We have very nice, lakely locations. Why should the parliament and government decide that we can't build where people want to live? So I think we should think about how we can reform beach protection. We had a discussion about noise regulations, and that only shows how difficult it is to make changes. We have received clear signals for many years that noise regulations are a problem, but it took the government and this legislature a long time to bring about a change in noise regulations. That is also something we need to look at and see if we need to reform even more. What we know, and it is at least 100% clear, is that housing subsidies have not worked so far. Unfortunately, pouring money on construction companies is one of the few things the government has done, and it is a policy that does not work. It is well documented, and it is something that the new alliance government will be watching. Another thing that is well documented is that feminist snow clearance, which exists in Stockholm, does not work. I saw some environmental party who spoke as that yes, it works well – during the summer. But there is not so much snow clearance then. Therefore, one may not be surprised that the explanation for the government's passivity is that the Minister of Housing has engaged in feminist urban planning. This can be read about in the report, which is available on the Swedish Parliament's website: a regular round table for feminist urban planning was set up by Minister for Housing and Digitalization Peter Eriksson in autumn 2017. The participants in the discussions consist of about 15 people, both practitioners and researchers, who according to the Ministry of Economic Affairs have expertise in the field. The round table on feminist urban planning aims to take a broad approach to unequal distribution of power with an intersectional perspective. ..................................................... I have travelled around Sweden a lot and met many entrepreneurs, municipal politicians and others, but so far I have not met anyone who has said that it is a social problem that you do not have a feminist urban planning. It can, of course, explain why the housing policy of the Green Party and the Social Democrats is going as far as possible. SVT has reported recently: record-long housing queues around Sweden. Madam President, I would like For time winning, I request the approval of reservation 1. Of course, we support all our other reservations.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-46	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 10 from the Swedish Democrats on citizen involvement in urban planning, which I will talk about here. Aesthetics and quality are interpretable and diffuse concepts in construction. How are we going to build beautifully? It is an issue that is often discussed, and it is an important issue in this context because our environment with residential areas and properties has a major impact on us humans and our lives. The design of buildings, especially in the city centres, is an important issue, since at the same time it is something that symbolises the entire municipality and the wider environment in which many people move. It is also something that a little shows the character of the city. I therefore believe that the city centres are an important part to take into account when we talk about housing policy and design, something that also has a contributing effect on the tourism industry and other important areas of society. When it comes to building housing, it is important to plan for the long term, and there are also reasons why it takes as long to build housing as it does today. Of course, it is important that things go quickly, but sometimes it is also important that it takes time. Therefore, long-term planning is needed at an early stage in order to be able to achieve a faster process in the future once the construction is in place. It is also important to take into account the familiar part of housing construction, to ensure that meeting places for families and others to meet in order to also create a community in society. The security aspect must also be taken into account in the construction of housing so that we counteract the problems of the millions of programme areas. Today we see many vulnerable areas in the suburbs where blue light personnel find it difficult to operate when problems arise. These are therefore important areas to review so that we can create good conditions for future housing construction where we also create a harmony in society at large. How, then, do we come to this conclusion? How can we create an agreement on what future construction should look like? The Swedish Democrats believe that citizen involvement in urban planning is an important issue in order to create a common understanding, and there are a number of different ways there. The Swedish Democrats have among other things proposed municipal architectural programmes and beauty councils before the master plan. Compulsory consultation procedures with county architect, municipal architect, civil society and citizens should also be included. Precisely how this should be designed, we believe that the government should evaluate and then return to the Riksdag with proposals for measures. As far as municipal cultural competence is concerned, we propose a variety of incentives to take these areas into account in housing construction. It is about creating a whole but also about taking into account the historical values held by many municipalities so that they can be better used. We Swedish democrats have therefore proposed in our motion that the government evaluate and present new creative solutions to create increased citizen influence.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-55	Madam President, I would like Stay put, listeners, because this is important! Denial and fact resistance are words of fashion today. And something else can't be about when we listen to the government representatives a little later here today, including our Minister for Housing Peter Eriksson, when they claim that housing is being built as never before. Perhaps it's better to say that it was built, because the figures that were highlighted are for 2017, last year, when according to Sweden's Byggindustrier, 15 000 homes were built less than the authority Boverket considered would be needed to catch up and pass the need, which would then be 80 000 homes. By now we know that there are 600 000 homes that have to be completed by 2025 with a built-in rate of 80 000 per year – last year, this year and the coming year. Thus, the government does not reach the goal of its own authority, even when it is being built and has been built at its most. Forecasts from Sweden's Construction Industries speak a different language. According to them, in 2018 it will only have started 42,000 apartments and in 2019 even fewer – only 34,000 apartments. This compares with 51 000 apartments – not to be confused with housing that is 65 000 in number – which started in 2017. Yet the Minister of Housing, like Baghdad Bob, is trying to sound like it's being built like never before. In addition, the decline is taking place in times of stronger economic growth than for a very long time, with rising real wages and historically low interest rates. That, Madam President, is difficult to explain. Now Peter Eriksson is not here and can defend himself, but I would say that the housing construction we have seen so far is entirely the result of what the Center Party and the Alliance Government have achieved with their consistent regulatory simplification work. It has been aimed at providing construction companies and municipalities with more favourable conditions for obtaining buildable land. The upsurge that began during the time of the Alliance in government power has stopped, and housing construction is now taking place despite, and not thanks to, red-green policy. Madam President, I would like The Alliance has two reservations. The system of national interest is outdated and needs to be reviewed. Caroline Szyber has already talked about this. An investigation was set up by the Alliance government, and it has presented proposals. Madam President, I would like I am not sure that the proposal put forward by the Swedish Investigation of Interest would mean a significant improvement compared to what it is today, but the investigation highlighted at least the need for housing as an interest to take into account. That part ignores the government parties completely, because they do not take any action either on the basis of the investigation or on account of the widespread criticism of municipalities and county councils and construction companies against the system. Critics say that the system is an obstacle both around our big cities and in other parts of the country. In the opinion of the Center Party, it is a new investigation that would be needed, and it will aim to reduce the area of the country where national interests of different kinds hinder housing construction and other activities that benefit local business and sustainable development. Another obstacle to construction is the protection of the beach; it cannot be repeated often enough. This became the latest in the social democraticly governed Hylte municipality in Halland, where a new master plan is being developed. First of all, it can be noted that all the older settlements in the municipality, in villages and villages, are adjacent to a lake or watercourse, such as Nissan – one of Halland's famous rivers. 10 per cent of the municipality's area consists of lakes, and to this will be added the watercourses connecting the lakes with an associated general beach protection of 100 metres. Around the larger lakes, such as Bolmen, there is an extended protection of 200 meters. Thus, more than 50 percent of the land in the municipality that can be built up disappears! What remains is inaccessible forest and perhaps in isolated cases arable land, which should be preserved. This is a municipality with only 11,000 inhabitants, which has so far failed to qualify for the government's generous building bonus. If nothing else, Hylte in Halland would need the freedom to decide for herself over the protection of the beach. This, Madam President, is representative of all inland municipalities, of many coastal municipalities with a vast hinterland but also of large cities such as Stockholm. The Stockholm Chamber of Commerce estimates that a further 95 000 homes would be possible if the beach protection were halved and changed to 50 metres. Imagine what that would mean for those municipalities whose main problem is that the banks do not lend money because the property values are too low! So you need to increase the attractiveness, and beachfront construction is one way to do it. Madam President, I would like This is a split-up of the country that the Center Party cannot accept. Neither building bonuses nor investment aid will solve the problems, but it is a matter of regulatory simplification and even more simplification. In the field of the Planning and Construction Act, which we are discussing here today, there is more to be done than the reforms that were investigated and prepared by the then alliance government. Some of them have been forced to present the government because there are announcements from the Riksdag about this. Other things were ready on a table set for the red-greens to realize. As has been said before, it is this that has produced the result, albeit insufficient, that we are seeing today. Much remains to be done. It is about allowing private planning initiatives and not always demanding a new detailed plan in the case of collective settlements outside urban areas. Above all, it is important to get to all the unwieldy appeals that only aim to delay, tire out and create uncertainty. Much of this is found in the Center Party's housing policy exercise with 28 points for increased construction – this compares with the government's 22-point program, of which only a fraction has been realised. Madam President, I would like The end of the speech will be devoted to an issue which, on the grounds set out, has become urgent for many. I am talking about security, or the experience of safety, along walking and cycling paths, in staircases, in parks, around bicycle garages and around our homes. There is already support to apply from Boverket to improve the outdoor environment. We think it's good, but we in the Center Party want to expand it. Our budget option therefore has 70 million more to use to remove dark passages and shrubbery near footpaths and to bring up a smart and functional outdoor lighting. This may cause those who cannot help harassing or committing acts of violence against others to refrain from doing so. Not least, it is important for all those who live in these areas that we do not save any energy when it comes to increasing the experience of security in the evenings and weekends and in everyday life. It has also become the case that bluelight personnel, rescue services, ambulances, police and also other people who work to support people and to maintain order in the areas are attacked. That can never be accepted. It is every person's right to feel that when something happens you get the protection and help of society. Madam President, I would like It is for their sake that we in the Center Party want to use the Planning and Construction Act to create guidelines for how municipalities should take the security issues into account in their planning work. I therefore support reservation 1, the alliance reservation, for a review of national interests. In addition to this, I call for reservation 12 from the Center Party on guidelines in the planning work for greater security in residential areas. A new leadership and a long-term solution to housing policy is needed if we are to respond seriously to the need for 600 000 new housing by 2025.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-74	Madam President, I would like Members and listeners! Nooshi Dadgostar, the Left Party's spokesperson on housing policy, is not here now but will come later, so I will read her text. Colleagues who have questions for her can then discuss them with her. I hope she comes. We are talking today about planning and construction. I'll start by requesting for time winning consent to reservation 14. We are, of course, behind all the reservations of the Left Party. Sweden has a major housing shortage. For some years now, housing policy has been privatised to companies operating in the construction and real estate sector. The political governance of the housing market has weakened. It is therefore built far too little, to a small well-to-do group, despite the fact that many people are asking for rents for cheaper rents. With regard to new production, it is important that what is being built today is sustainable over time and offers a good standard for those who move in. But more and more of the control of construction has been transferred to the builder himself. It's called self-control. It is the developer himself who will ensure that there are controllers. It is a system that has been severely criticised. For example, Erik Stenberg, researcher at KTH Royal Institute of Technology, has said the following about the sustainability of what is being built today: The million-dollar programme has lasted 40-50 years before it needs renovation. Housing of today lasts at best between 15 and 20 years before it is renovation time. What he refers to today's way of building is, among other things, infused stems and pipes and advanced ventilation solutions that make it difficult to maintain the dwelling, moisture damage in buildings that are built too quickly, one-stage sealed facades, health effects of for dense and dark houses, floor solutions that are not functional or flexible, damage, cracks and gaps that occur already during the construction and so on. What he calls for is a single set of rules and for Boverket to take on a greater role in regulating minimum building quality requirements, given the amount of housing being built today. Today, a large proportion of tenant-owners are built in conflict-like situations where project developers themselves both order, build and quality check homes. Those who then move in are laymen who basically never get to drive a process against the responsible actor. Another researcher at KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Jonas Anund Vogel, today warns about homes that leak heat and are built with cheap materials. Not many people today believe that current building controls actually work the way they are supposed to. In practice, the legal requirement only means that the developer or project developer informs the municipality of who is hired as the controller. But controls can then be of very different quality. And there is really no incentive in the current legislation to carry out further checks or to look for shortcomings. There is also an inspector, but his responsibilities depend on the nature of the contract between the various operators. The legislation does not even require the inspector to be indecent. These building frauds can become a sweaty business, both for the homeowner who is already fully borrowed and for the housing association that suddenly needs to spend tens of millions on a façade change, for example. Half of the Swedes today are afraid of building fraud, and given today's control apparatus, this is justified. Many construction companies are pushing up their profit demands and are now trying to cut gold with a numeral knife in the tracks of housing shortage. Prices are constantly being pushed up, and profit margins are widening. It is an environment characterised by short-termism. It is nothing that benefits the quality and durability of new production, for example in terms of material choices and constructions. It is good that the government has begun to look at this, but it also needs a real ambition to change the current order. Today, families are in debt and pay a high price for housing, and society must be able to guarantee that housing is good and well planned. There needs to be independent inspections for which it is responsible in public and greater responsibility for quality at either municipal or government level. This goes hand in hand with the need for the entire community building chain to be covered by and comply with Swedish collective agreements. The homes in which families live need to be built by safe, secure employees who have power and influence also on how to build processes, because they have the greatest knowledge on the subject. Long, unclear entrepreneurial chains do not benefit the quality of construction. Madam President, I would like Equality in urban planning needs to be increased. Security, solidarity and equalization of power in public spaces require that the girls also be involved in urban planning. It is common for spatial planning and land use to be more responsive to the needs of men than to the needs of women. Urban planning should be guided by clear gender equality objectives. Can you open up places that today are built with tall shrubs and walking tunnels? Can lighting be improved outside? Can we not see commercial messages that are marketed with threaded women's bodies? Can sports fields and periods be more equal? Do we build assembly rooms for associations and the residents' meeting places in everyday life? Do the children have enough play areas? How can courtyards, transparency and living environments be changed in order to increase gender equality? Furthermore, I would like the government to undertake a review of appropriate instruments to stimulate urban planning that is resource-efficient. We want to increase accessibility for public transport, walking and cycling. The parking standard, i.e. the large areas that are now being added to new constructions for the cars, is not sustainable. It increases the cost of construction projects and does not contribute to the transformation of the transport sector. Car pools, public transport expansion and a partly denser city where school, home services and workplaces are within walking distance and public transport distance is the future. We therefore want an additional milestone in the environmental quality objective Good built environment with a goal of reducing car traffic and increasing accessibility for public transport, cycling and walking. In order to create good and coherent urban planning, there needs to be land for this. The municipalities need help to buy in and to be able to negotiate more easily with private landowners about the development of the city. If municipalities own very exploitable land, there are more opportunities to build a good environment with schools and health centres in new residential areas. Although we in Sweden believe that housing policy and the right to a home are part of the welfare, housing policy is unusually commercialised and today rather speculative. The construction companies that exist today are profit-making companies that have essentially only shareholder interests. It is an oddity in Swedish politics. We need much greater political responsibility in order for everyone to have good housing at reasonable cost. With today's prices, it's really hard for a 25-year-old to be able to leave home. In many places, you are basically a divorce from ending up on the street. We believe that it is a serious insecurity that needs to be addressed. That is why we have proposed the construction of a joint state construction company that should have a public interest in building housing that people can actually afford. A state-owned company can build and put pressure on the privatised market to build better and at lower rents and prices. It would be a powerful tool for actually producing the number of homes that we need. We know then that private real estate and construction companies do not want to build up the housing shortage because they risk lowering house prices and their own profit margins. That is why we want to see higher political ambitions than the current ones. A state-owned construction company would provide greater opportunities for political governance and secure the long-term sustainability of community building across the country, and in addition to building away the housing shortage, we can jointly break down housing segregation and reduce the climate impact of the housing sector. You should be able to feel confident that there are rental apartments for reasonable rents in your current location or the place you want to move to. Everything needs to be done in order for the housing shortage to actually be removed.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-96	Madam President, I would like I'm not going to ask you any detailed questions about the policy of the Left Party, Hamza Demir. I noticed that you made a great effort because your residential spokesperson couldn't be here today. That's also why I replaced Mats Green. They're in the same debate. What is relevant and interesting is an ideological question about this with state construction companies. I happen to have quite a few friends who run electrical companies, who are plumbers and I also know someone who owns a construction company. These small businessmen work just like that. My friend Åke, who runs a vvs-firm, works Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday. Saturdays, when I'm at a political meeting, he's sitting with the books. It is difficult to book and invoice customers while standing and working. He works many hours and does a fantastic job, as well as many other small businesses in Sweden. Then I would like to ask the Left Party why it would be better and cheaper to nationalise construction and construction companies in Sweden? It would be interesting to hear it from the Left Party.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-99	Madam President, I would like You, Lars Beckman, also mentioned that the Left Party's housing policy spokesman is Nooshi Dadgostar, but I know that the Left Party's proposal for a state-owned construction company is not aimed at small construction companies, quite the contrary. This is aimed at the big giants, large developers who have power over the entire housing market and do as they please. That is precisely why small companies are fighting and fighting to survive. A state housing company would facilitate their work, not the other way round. But of course it would reduce the possibility for giants to decide for themselves based on their profit interests.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-101	Madam President, I would like It was a good clarification, that my small business friends who run their construction companies should not be nationalized by the Left Party. But the question remains: how would state-owned construction companies be better, cheaper and more efficient? Which pre-existing countries do we see with large government activities where a more efficient market economy is in place? That is what the Left Party is saying. I have looked at some countries in the world that have applied communism or been leftist. It could be Cuba or North Korea. The last experiment that ran a market economy at the bottom was Venezuela. In a relatively short time, that country's economy crashed. The question then has to be asked: How would a state-owned construction company make the construction industry more efficient in Sweden? In what way would the State be a better owner than private companies? That is the ideological discussion, and I can be honest and say that I am deeply sceptical about this. There is competition, and I think the market is working in general, but then – as I said in my speech – many changes are needed in order to have a more efficient construction industry. But I don't believe in nationalising private companies at all. It would be interesting to know from the Left Party: Me d who are you going to implement your politics? What other parties in this Parliament do you see before you that you should be able to nationalize private companies together with, Hamza Demir? Which other parties here in Parliament think it is a good idea?
i-16549c8b2ba66885-105	Madam President, I would like The Left Party is based on fundamental human rights. When we propose state ownership, we start from fundamental human rights. We do not want to favour the profit interests of large companies in terms of health care, schools and housing. Housing is a human right. In recent years we have seen what happened because the market took power and the construction companies operated the business based on their own interests. There is a reality now that is not working. All parties are talking about the fact that there is a major problem which is not because government companies do not operate, but because of the market. By the market I mean big capitalists and big developers who have all the power. Small businesses struggle to survive while hundreds of thousands of people are homeless or have very big problems. We in the Left Party have an alternative. Not all construction companies need to be state-owned, but we say that a state-owned company would force the large developers to dampen their profit interest.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-108	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation No 1. For time-winning, I do not agree to the other claims of the Liberals, but of course I support them wholeheartedly. Madam President, I would like The Swedish housing market is in crisis. The crisis in the Swedish housing market is that there is too little building and that mobility is too low. There is also a very large insider – outsider-problematic. Those who are in the Swedish housing market have it, and those who are currently outside have to pay the price for the non-functioning market. They do not have sufficient queue time to get a dwelling and do not receive mortgages because of the amortisation requirements that we in Sweden have laid down. The government's housing policy prevents many class trips and simply shuts out many working people. The rental queues are too long, and the tenant-owners are too expensive. This is not something that the government's misdirected building subsidies to rich construction entrepreneurs will solve. One might therefore wonder why Hamza Demir is now speaking ill of large construction companies. After all, it is the government and its policies that he supports that fatten their pockets more than anything else. SEK 6 billion goes straight into the construction companies' pockets. I don't understand this. There is no logic in first speaking ill of them and then wanting to give them a lot of money. The growing alienation areas, with which we have problems in Sweden, are largely due to the leasing system. Today there is hardly any difference in price to live in the central parts of our cities compared to the vulnerable areas. Let me be clear here: the policy of the Social Democrats means that the citizens of the suburbs have to pay for the cheap rents in the central parts of Sweden's major cities. Madam President, I would like However, the housing crisis is not governed by any natural law. We can reduce exclusion and give more freedom to be master of their own home. Liberals want to make a series of regulatory simplifications to facilitate housing construction. For example, it is a question of simplifying the rules for planning, short appeal procedures, enabling so-called micro-residentials and softening shore protection, where exploitation pressures are not very high. A prosperous housing market requires a mix of rentals, flats, owner-occupied apartments and villas in different locations and price ranges. It increases choice in housing and can help make an area more attractive. This is particularly important in vulnerable suburbs where the supply of housing today is very one-sided. I mean 100% rents and nothing else. Anyone who wants to own their home is forced to leave, which is not reasonable. Liberals want to see a tax-beneficial housing saving for those who want to save up for their first home purchase. This applies to young people as well as new arrivals and those who later in life want to make their first purchase. For example, it may be the single mother who wants to have the opportunity to own her first home. Madam President, I would like I would like to highlight two areas in which we Liberals will invest when the Alliance takes power in the autumn. First of all, it concerns a system of national interest that takes care of the need for housing. A national interest is a geographical area that has been identified as particularly protective because it contains nationally important values and qualities. However, the system of protection is unwieldy and obsolete. We are in favour of Sweden having a system of national interest, but that must be reasonable. In addition, there has been inflation in the number and scope of national interests. Today, as much as 55 per cent of Sweden's surface area is covered by national interests. We believe that this represents an unreasonable part. I love Sweden, but 55% of the country's surface area is not of national interest. Many municipalities believe that national interests hinder new housing. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that the government's handling of national interests makes it difficult for municipalities to plan new housing. Among other things, 60 per cent of municipalities with housing shortages indicate that the government's handling of national interests has hindered the construction of new dwellings at least once in recent years. We politicians here in Parliament must take this seriously. If an area is of national interest for several incompatible purposes, preference shall be given to the purpose or purposes most appropriate to promote long-term housing in Sweden. That is why we in the Liberals want the need for buildable land in the event of a housing shortage to be classified as a national interest of our own. Then you can weigh the different interests against each other. Liberals believe that the system of national interests should be reformed. The assessment of what constitutes a national interest should be made in an overall process, and decisions on classification of national interests should be subject to regular review, for example when developing new in-depth review plans. The second issue I would like to raise today is BID cooperation. We in the Liberals are in favour of various forms of more or less regulated collaboration between private and public actors aimed at improving the conditions for both residents and the business community in certain defined areas. Such projects have been found in different parts of Sweden, for example at Järvafältet, in Gamlestaden in Gothenburg and in Sofielund in Malmö. The results have been quite successful. We believe that Sweden needs to legislate on BID cooperation in some way. In order to reverse the development of areas of particular insecurity, which have a poor external environment and which are generally declining, different solutions with BID co-operation should be examined. One of these is BID's business improvement disputes. BID has been developed in Canada and the United States and is based on cooperation between relevant property owners, housing associations, municipal companies and business associations in a particular secluded area. It is simply a local partnership solution that provides the service that municipalities are not always able to deliver. It opens up the possibility for private actors to take initiatives on social sustainability and commercially profitable growth together with the public. With BID collaboration we could lift many of the Swedish vulnerable areas and give more freedom and create a greater sense of security there. Madam President, I would like The housing shortage is not governed by any natural law, but is the result of inadequate policies. Sweden needs a liberal housing market with more housing and more market. Liberal reforms will contribute to a more dynamic housing market where fewer people get caught up in exclusion and more people will experience the feeling of freedom and pride in entering the first home.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-126	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the CU16 report to be approved. Today we are debating motions contained in the report on Planning and construction, etc. These are motion proposals concerning the environmental code's rules on housekeeping and the need for housing, planning and construction in the broad sense and housing policy. I am not going to discuss all the motions in my speech but will comment on the National Investigation of Interest, the review of the Planning and Construction Act and mention some of the reforms implemented by the government in the area of planning and construction. Firstly, with regard to the system of national interest, there are a number of motions on how national interests counteract the construction of housing. As an example, it is raised that 55 per cent of Sweden's surface area is covered by national interests. In this context, I would like to point out that it is not automatically a construction ban within a national interest, but that other alternatives should be examined first. Last week I had a conversation with Göran Cars, Professor of Community Planning at the Royal Institute of Technology. He is involved in planning the big move of Kiruna, and there are a lot of national interests to relate to. The most important thing for managing the planning was to have an early and close collaboration with the County Administrative Board to see which roads are accessible. You shouldn't spend time and effort on impossible projects. Cars raises the county administrative board as a good partner but points out that some other government agencies have not been as cooperative. The role of the state must be clarified here. The Government has introduced, among other things, that municipalities should be informed early in the planning phase from the County Administrative Board regarding the state's interests. The Government prepares the report submitted by the Swedish Research Council and prepares the report on the subject by Boverket. These are not entirely consistent and do not really come to the same conclusions, which may make things a little tricky. In their reservation, the Alliance's representatives want the Government to set up a new investigation into the national interests where the need for housing should be given higher priority. I really don't want to be a big deal when I'm questioning a new investigation. After all, the investigation that the government is now preparing is set up by the former alliance government, and then one might wonder why the proposal that the Alliance has now had no greater impact on its own investigation. Moreover, it is not the first time they have requested new investigations after their own investigations have failed to produce the desired results. Last two years ago, I was standing in this speaker's chair debating the PBL appeal investigation. It was also established by the former alliance government, and the conclusions did not fully please the representatives of the Alliance. Let's see what conclusions the Government Office comes up with in the preparation of the report of the Swedish National Affairs Investigation and Boverket's report. It may seem to have taken time, but there are some comments on the investigation set up by the Alliance. If the Alliance really wants fewer national interests, one might wonder why they allowed representatives from all national interests to be included in the investigation when national interests would still be reduced. Then it would be interesting to find answers to which national interests are to be reduced. It hasn't come to light anywhere. Secondly, as regards the revision of the Planning and Construction Act, where the opposition calls for both simplification and improvements to promote housing, I would like to point out first of all that what creates demand for housing is that people feel safe for the future, that unemployment is falling further, that they have secure employment and that they have wage developments that are increasing safely. What can counteract increased demand for housing is for politicians to legislate on lower wages and wage ceilings or on deteriorating employment conditions. The Government is working to review further simplifications and improvements of PBL, in addition to the proposals already decided. In the 22-point programme presented by the government, there are several measures that facilitate the process. A review of already existing building permit-exempt measures is also being carried out. Another aspect of the issue that both planning and building permits managers and private business operators have pointed out to me – it is not only Lars Beckman who knows construction entrepreneurs, but I myself come from the construction industry and know a dozen construction entrepreneurs privately and also have a gang that I know through my previous professional role – is that you should not make major changes in PBL as this can have a counter-effect because you are not sure what conditions you have for the future. Finally, Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity to tell you what the government has done to improve the planning of new housing and to enable new housing to be built that normal wage earners can afford to demand. The important thing, as we see it and have also been confirmed by municipal officials and private operators, is to have long-term and clear conditions for planning. This means that there is very little demand from actors in the housing market for major, extensive changes to the Planning and Construction Act. On the other hand, there is a need and desire for a continuous review of, for example, Boverket's building regulations, something that is already being done today. In order to shorten and simplify the planning process, the county boards, as I mentioned earlier, have been tasked with presenting the state's views at an early stage on future planning programmes, so that municipalities do not have to spend an excessive amount of time and planning on projects to which the state objects. In addition, the county administrative boards have been removed as the first appeal panel in the planning process to shorten the appeal period. These are a couple of important reforms that the government has made to streamline planning processes. It is still important to have a broad consultation when planning areas. Then it is not individual houses that are being built, but we are building communities. In societies, there are many and sometimes conflicting interests that need to be heard in order for the planning process to be as good as it can be. In order for plans to become ready homes, it is also necessary that what is planned can be demanded by normal income earners. In order to facilitate the development of cheaper rental apartments, the government has introduced investment aid, which means that rental apartments are now being built throughout the country that ordinary employees can afford. Last year, investment aid was granted to 10 000 new rental apartments, which will have a reasonable rent level for 15 years to come. Against this stands Moderate market rents, which would only lead to higher rents, especially in times such as these with great housing shortages. The argument against the support of, among others, the Moderates has been that nobody wants it. Then it is strange that in 2017 the construction of 10,000 new rental apartments with investment grants was started. Both private and municipal housing companies have applied for support throughout the country. For example, Moderate-led Tyresö, through its municipal housing company, builds rental apartments with investment aid. I think the Alliance's criticism of the support falls flat. Another important player in obtaining housing is, of course, the municipalities. It is the municipalities that have housing responsibility, and in order to support the municipalities in developing new plans and thereby support increased housing construction, the government has introduced a very popular municipal bonus, which supports the municipalities that have taken a great deal of responsibility. This is a support that even moderate-led municipalities have gladly received, despite the fact that the Moderates here in Parliament are against the bonus and will abolish it if they, Gud forbid, are given the opportunity. The government has also introduced support for renovation of rental dwellings and outdoor environments in socioeconomically weak areas and introduced support for elderly housing. Only these listed aid amounts to around EUR 6 billion per year. Against this are the Alliance's and the Swedish Democrats' proposals in the budget for almost zero SEK per year in housing policy initiatives. Madam President, I would like I would once again like to support the proposal made by the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs in the CU report16.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-150	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying to Leif Nysmed that it is good that you are highlighting the policy of the Alliance. After all, it was we who laid the foundations for this, for example, with the shortening of appeal periods. But it's great if you try to develop politics a little by yourself too. I couldn't help but react to what you said, Leif Nysmed. You asked if we wanted to reduce the number of national interests and said that this is being prepared. No, we do not want to reduce the number of national interests. What we did very clearly and that is also evident from our movements and reservations is that we want a new investigation where you look at how housing can also become a national interest. That means adding a national interest. I'm not saying that the other national interests are unimportant. No one else in the Alliance does either. It sounds like you're preparing the question. My question is: if you prepare this, when will you refer the proposal? If you prepare something, you might want to be a little sensitive. Maybe even an S-government should be a little sensitive. Leif Nysmed, you say that we in the Alliance are not happy with the investigation and want to do it again. It's like this: We don't place orders, like you do. You have taken a former politician like Ilmar Reepalu, whose only experience is to have driven a municipality's economy to the bottom and have had such a bad situation in Malmö that schools must be closed down, and allowed him to conduct an inquiry into profits in welfare. In the Alliance, we do not place orders. I honestly said right from the start that I don't think the investigator has been following the investigation directives. The directives could have been even clearer if the Ministry of the Environment had not been involved in putting a wet blanket over it from the start. If you really are preparing this, my question to Leif Nysmed is: what are you doing in the preparation, and when are you referring the proposal, if you really want to move forward with a change of national interests?
i-16549c8b2ba66885-157	Madam President, I would like I really don't know when this is going to be a referral, Caroline. Maybe Emma has some information about that. If she does, she'll have to come back. There has been a report from Boverket and a lot of criticism from the Swedish Municipalities and County Council regarding the investigation. I guess I can also think that it's not great in all parts. It is clear that it is problematic to find this out. You can wish that the person setting up an investigation is clear in the mission, so that it is clear what you want to find out in the investigation. It is sometimes presented as if it is not possible to build on the so-called 55 per cent of Sweden's surface covered by national interests, but that is not true. Kiruna is proof that it is possible. I only spoke to Göran Cars last week about this particular issue in order to get some more facts. As he says, it is important to sit down with the state representatives, i.e. the county administrative board, and early have a conversation to see what national interests exist and what other options exist before planning in a national interest. You can do that, but you should have investigated it early. Then it is good if the state has been clear at an early stage. There's some work to do there. I also said critically that there are some government agencies that cross the county boards sometimes. We need to be clearer about that. It's one of those things that hopefully comes up in the investigation. That the County Administrative Board should be a spokesperson in the first place, I can think is a good solution, without promising anything.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-161	Madam President, I would like Yes, Leif Nysmed, you can see Kiruna. It is possible to build there, but not all municipalities have a KTH professor as a consultant, who sits down with the county board and Boverket and makes it work. That's not what it looks like. Kiruna has shown that it is possible, but those resources are not available elsewhere. Boverket and the county boards can do an incredible amount more, but then the state also needs to make sure that they do. The focus of this is: This is a system that should not be removed, but it needs to be modernised. It needs to reflect both today's situation and tomorrow's situation and what values we want. We want to build a sustainable society. Then we also need to make sure that we may enhance housing construction. You can, as I said, look at the interests that exist. There are a lot of people who might not have been introduced today, but housing could be one of them. Then I think the question remains, whether you think you have done a good investigation or a less good investigation. I'll tell you what, you're welcome. Try it yourself! Given the fact that you prepare, very little is done. You have not referred this. You lie and wait and say: Yes, there are criticisms from Boverket. There are criticisms from SKL. Yes, there were very many who were critical, but you have not had a round table or a meeting with the parties either. Nothing has happened in this area. Yes, it's a complex question. Then it is not possible to just point fingers and say: You did a bad investigation. The fact that the investigation became as it was, I think, rather illustrates the complexity of the issue. Then I don't think you should put your head in the sand or let a bad investigation be lying in a desk drawer, but you should take the next step. In fact, preparing a question means working on it. I think the government can do much more when it comes to national interests.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-167	Madam President, I would like Caroline! I got a little hint from Emma in the Green Party that it's actually out for a referral. It's not like it's been in a drawer. Thank God I got that information – thank you! However, I think that things must also be done during the examination and preparation of a dossier. You can't just sit around and wait. In fact, I think that the government has been very clear about the mission of the county boards to be the state's actor in these matters. We have clearly given the county boards the task of prioritising housing construction, which they have also done in the country. It also invests in training measures for municipalities and county boards to cope with this planning with the current conditions. So you do not sit around waiting for a proposal, because it takes time to come up with something, especially when the basis may not be quite good. We can agree on that with regard to this inquiry of national interest. It may take a while for you to come up with something sensible. Then you have to work on things in real time, in the present. And we think we have managed to achieve something very good. Kiruna is a good example of this.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-170	Madam President, I would like I have a few questions for Leif Nysmed. As I said in my speech, companies are moving from Stockholm because of housing shortages. It's a record-long housing queue. There are 600 000 people queuing for a tenancy. It could take up to ten years. One of the things we have heard in the debate today is that the Left Party wants to nationalise parts of the construction sector. You want to start state-owned construction companies. It would then be interesting, not least against the background of the honourable Member, to hear whether it is something that the Social Democrats think is a good idea. Do the Social Democrats also believe in the nationalisation of construction companies? In what way would this lead to a more efficient construction process in Sweden? If Leif Nysmed does not believe in this idea, can he guarantee that the government will not turn its back on it? The Left Party is an important part of the government base. It may be that the Left Party Jonas Sjöstedt makes it an ultimate requirement to start state-owned construction companies. It would be interesting to hear Leif Nysmed's comment on that. Then I wonder about feminist urban planning. In other words, 600 000 people are in the housing queue in Stockholm alone. We can see that unlike other areas, Minister Eriksson has had round tables on unequal distribution of power with an intersectional perspective. I have to ask Leif Nysmed: in what way does it make it easier for those in a long, long, long housing queue in Stockholm and in other cities that the Minister for Housing has round tables on feminist urban planning? How do we get more housing because of it?
i-16549c8b2ba66885-175	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman! I'm going to speak to you with last names, too. I forgot about Caroline. I'm sorry. We don't have government construction companies on our agenda. Nor do I see it as meaning that the Left Party would like to nationalise some companies that you were trying to cite. I understood that they would like to set up a new housing company that would bring up competition with the profit-making companies. We don't have plans like that. We haven't discussed it either. We have rejected the motions that have been submitted to our Congress the last time. We believe that the companies that exist today can be good forces if there is good competition in the market. But, of course, market governance and regulation are needed, so that there is no room for free play. It is a matter of ensuring that there are good conditions for the serious actors in the housing and construction markets, so that they manage to survive and are not outcompeted by the crime that exists in the labour market today. Companies that come here and who do not pay taxes in Sweden and who use people who are in the country illegally put their feet away for many serious entrepreneurs. I meet several of them on that particular issue. They're very worried. They are more or less forced to begin to look at the seriosity of their own company in order to cope with the competition. It's untenable. That is why we have put in place funds to ensure that our government agencies are able to monitor the labour market, especially the construction market. It was a good article in DN– I think it was last Sunday – about the over 400 hits the Swedish Work Environment Authority has made in the country together with the Swedish Tax Agency and the police. It is precisely a question of trying to overcome the crime of working life that exists in relation to the Swedish construction market. It is extremely important for the serious companies to be able to compete with good conditions.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-180	Madam President, I would like When it comes to combating fraud and combating crime, we are in complete agreement. I met Peringvar Östblom, who is employed in a joint project between the builders in Stockholm and the union, where they work together to combat crime. There is no difference at all. I note – and I am pleased – that the Social Democrats reject the Left Party's policy of nationalisation of the construction sector. What we did not get the answer to was: What happens when Jonas Sjöstedt hits hard? What happens when Jonas Sjöstedt demands this – otherwise the government falls? We have seen this in other areas. For example, we have seen how the Left Party wants to remove freedom of choice in welfare, through the Reepalus investigation mentioned earlier. I also note the silence on feminist urban planning. I note that we did not get an answer to the question. This can be an important message to all the 600 000 people in Stockholm who queue for a rental agreement. In what way does the Minister of Housing's round table on feminist urban planning lead to more construction in Stockholm or in other parts of Sweden? Given that Leif Nysmed has a background in the construction industry, I wonder: When have you met a builder, a trade union or others who have said that it is feminist urban planning that means that we will be able to build more rental or residential apartments in Sweden? I have never met anyone who has said that, and I have quite a lot of friends in the construction industry. That the Minister of Housing spends his precious time on round tables on feminist urban planning or snow clearance instead of making concrete proposals on how to get construction going in Sweden can possibly be an explanation for the slow progress of the government in this area. But it would be interesting to hear the message from the Social Democrats to the 600 000 who are in line in Stockholm alone. How do round tables on feminist urban planning lead to more construction?
i-16549c8b2ba66885-185	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman! I would like to mention one of the major reasons why we have a long housing queue in Stockholm, to which you refer. We are talking about Stockholm County, not just the City of Stockholm. The alliance has run for a very long time in many of our municipalities, especially in the City of Stockholm. If under eight years you transform 30 000 rental apartments in Stockholm into tenant-owned apartments, gender does not get shorter – does it? On the other hand, a number of cheap rental apartments disappear from the market and become expensive residential apartments, because in Stockholm the tenant-owners are expensive. You change your population a little bit. You don't want those with low incomes in town. They're going to the suburbs. We have here heard Robert Hannah talking about being able to lower the rents in, for example, Vårby farm, which I doubt given that there are about 200 applicants per apartment in Vårby farm. Ask Balder if they would lower their rents if they know they have 200 applicants for each vacant residence out there. There's no way. It is also a violation of the Companies Act. They should make sure to get as much profit as possible and not give it away. It's not Samhall we're talking about out there. It may not be that the companies say that with feminist planning we will get more housing. But it is an important issue when we build our residential areas that there is security for people. We see many areas that have been built in the 60's, 70's, 80's and 90's, and also in the 2000's where we have built a lot of insecurity in our areas because we have not had an idea of how people experience the area. It is a good thing that this perspective is also taken into account in the planning of society. It is not opposed to building away the housing queue. If there are any people who have planned for more housing in the City of Stockholm, it is the current majority there. It has many plans ahead, and it will continue to do so.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-189	Madam President, I would like We are facing an enormous challenge. I know some people think it's getting tedious that I say it in almost every debate, but it's a fact. The climate challenge is here and now. I would say that this is the greatest challenge of our time. If we fail to meet this challenge, we will be in eternal debt to future generations and their opportunities to experience what we have received. Today's debate is about planning and construction. It is a large and very important area. It is an area that will have a major impact on whether we meet the challenge we face or not. Planning and construction issues are very important. These issues set the framework for how our society is shaped. With its legislation, we can enable society to be built for all and to meet the challenges we face. It is important that we build a society for all. It should be a society where everyone can live, live and work. We need to ensure that the municipal and regional planning of land and water areas is done in the best way to achieve the goals we have set ourselves. Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in its entirety. The lack of housing is a national problem, I think we all agree, regardless of the political colour. That part of the solution is that we continue to build many homes, we all seem to think, or almost all, in any case. Yesterday it was reported that the Swedish Democrats want to dismantle and demolish certain residential areas. That demolition of homes would contribute to more people getting a home, I don't get to go together. But I do not get that either with any other Swedish democratic policy. We are almost all agreed that more housing needs to be built, not demolished. We can see that in recent years much more has been built than has been done in a very long time. This has happened despite the current planning and construction law, the national interests we have, the accessibility requirements that exist for student housing and all the other problems that the reservations contained in this report suggest. Despite all this, it is apparently possible to build homes, many dwellings. Madam President, I would like I want to stay for a little while on accessibility issues. For me, this is an extremely important issue. For me, it is obvious that no one should be excluded from a newly produced dwelling because of their physical conditions. The large part of our housing stock is the existing one, and most of that stock is not accessible. The small part of the stock that is newly produced should therefore be available to all regardless of which group it is intended to live there. Students are not a homogeneous group. Not all students are young or fully mobile. Students are already in a vulnerable situation, and in many ways their home is also their place of work. But it is not said that there are no obstacles that we need to clear, legislative changes that need to be made and new investigations that need to be set up. We have recently seen how the construction act has gone down and stopped in some places, especially in Stockholm and other metropolitan regions. The fact that this is due to some of the concerns I mentioned earlier does not seem very likely. It has clearly been possible to build in spite of current rules and circumstances. On the other hand, I believe, as the construction sector itself bears witness, that there is a major shortage of labour, the procurement rules we have and that at the moment there is not enough money to be made from people's housing as it has been for a long time. These are things that will play a role in how much is being built and how much will be built forward. Madam President, I would like My colleagues from the bourgeois parties often try to show that the red-green government is passive and does not implement housing policy. I would say that it is directly wrong. We have put housing policy back on the national agenda and brought it up in the national debate. That we're not doing anything is wrong. On the other hand, I would think that what we are doing is not to the liking of my bourgeois colleagues. It may seem strange when it is built as much as it is done and much more than what has been done in a very long time. I believe that last year more housing was started than it was during the first four years of the Alliance when it had its own majority. Then it is strange to me that they feel that nothing is happening. So far, the red-green government under the leadership of our environmentalist housing minister, Peter Eriksson, has done a great deal. To name a few things that have been done to facilitate and push for a continued high level of housing construction and to solve the housing shortage we have, for example, we have commissioned Akademiska Hus to solve the student housing shortage, and they have also shown how to do so. As Leif Nysmed mentioned earlier, the county administrative boards have changed their assignments and have also been given the task of prioritising housing construction. A special investigator has been appointed to resolve conflicts between, for example, various government agencies or other interests that have prevented housing construction. The move of Bällstamasten is one such example. We have also set up a series of studies to, for example, review the planning process and develop the master plan. Madam President, I would like As I see it, there are three overall challenges we have in the area of housing policy. It is about climate, cost and quality. As I began by saying, the greatest challenge of our time is the climate challenge. The construction sector currently accounts for about one fifth of Sweden's total climate impact. That is why we need to ensure that the construction sector can shift and reduce its negative climate footprint. Of course, when we build as much as we do today, the climate impact of the construction sector will only be greater if we do not make sure to plan in new ways and build with other materials. For a long time we have talked a lot about how the climate impact of buildings is during the use phase, i.e. during the phase when we live in and use our houses. But the climate impact of that phase has decreased. It's about two parts. This applies to the way people live and be, but also to the fact that we are now building houses more energy efficient for the use phase. As the share of climate impact has decreased, the share coming from the construction phase has increased. That is where we have the major challenges ahead. It is mainly the choice of material that is the biggest villain. We need to facilitate wood so that wood as a building material is as obvious an alternative as concrete is today. When it comes to the challenge cost, I think about the construction cost but of course also the housing cost. Those who are currently outside the housing market must be allowed to enter it. It's about building more rental apartments with reasonable rents. But we also need to strengthen the individual's ability to ask for housing. The last challenge I mentioned was quality. Here it is quite simple. We heard earlier from the Left Party that a great deal of what is being built today will need to be demolished or renovated within as little as 20 years. What we are building today must also work well in 100 years' time. This is where community planning comes in. We're not just building houses. We build communities. For this to become a reality, long-term perspectives are needed in the whole of social planning. What we are building today needs to be of good quality both in terms of sustainability and design. That's why I'm glad the government has set up the investigation to review Boverket's building regulations. It is the regulations that govern how what we build is actually built. With a red-green government, housing is being built, many more homes than it has been built in a very long time. This will lead to more people getting a home, which is good for the whole development of society and Sweden's future.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-211	Madam President, I would like I really share Emma Hult's view that it is more important to use the existing housing in a better way than to tear them down, which I also heard her say that both the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats were in the process of doing. But I didn't really hear Emma Hult disassociate herself from the Left Party's demolition policy, but maybe it will. I also share Emma Hult's view that the climate may be the most important challenge ahead. Wooden building can be one of the most important solutions. Since wood is a raw material that absorbs and stores carbon dioxide, it is important to ensure that the forest can be planted, grown and harvested. But it is another debate. I would like to hear how Emma Hult views the fact that housing construction does not meet the building goals. Not even the government authority Boverket's construction goals are achieved when the residential building is peaking. Instead, housing construction in the next two years will fall by as much as 30 per cent. It is a sign that the government's policy has not worked. The investment aid has not produced the expected result. I have not heard any debater from either the Social Democrats or the Green Party say that the 10 000 homes created by investment aid would not have been built anyway. It is, of course, difficult to lead in evidence. My view is that such support is going wrong. Now that I have before me the party colleague of the Minister for Housing, I would like to hear her explanation that housing construction is going to fall. As investment aid is dangerously close to the idea of forming some form of state-funded construction company, I would like to hear Emma Hult's opinion on the proposal we have heard about a state-owned construction company. Would that do any good?
i-16549c8b2ba66885-215	Madam President, I would like It's lucky that I have two lines because I won't be able to answer all Ola Johansson's questions in my first line. It is nice to hear that Ola Johansson and I agree in many of the things I have raised. I would like to begin by denying what Ola Johansson is trying to say: the Left Party does not have a demolition policy. The Left Party referred to a researcher who says that much of what is being built today is being built with such poor quality that it will need to be renovated in a short time. That is how I understood what was said, and it is also the signals that I receive from a large part of the profession. I'm worried about that, too. I said in my speech that in order for what is being built today to be as good as possible, one must expect it to be there in 100 years' time. These include the resources used in construction and the financial sustainability of the projects. Ola Johansson, and also someone else before, mentioned Boverket's goal. Boverket has no targets, but Boverket has made a forecast of how many homes need to be built. There's an important difference. When the government took office, they set a target for the mandate of 250 000 housing units. We will achieve this by far, so the government has reached its goal. Then, too, I am aware that a great deal has happened during the parliamentary term, which means that more housing needs to be built than the 250 000 that the government said at the beginning of its term of office. This is mainly due to all the new inhabitants who have come to Sweden. We have to fight to reach Boverket's prognosis, and we need to do that together. As you know, it is not the government that builds housing, but the construction companies in Sweden, and it is the municipalities that must have planning conditions. More apartments were started last year than it was during the first four years of the Alliance when they had their own majority. It also shows that it is not just politics that governs how much is built.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-222	Madam President, I would like It is not politics that governs – you can readily admit that. What happened during the first term of the alliance government was that there was a global financial crisis that stopped all funding opportunities – including for housing construction. It is important to emphasise this. It is also important that Emma Hult takes note of this. What we are seeing today, when housing starts to back down, is that there is no global financial crisis, that real wages are not falling and that there is no high interest rate. Now it is exceptionally favourable conditions for housing construction. It is against this background that it is so strange that housing construction is declining. Now we have heard the Left Party's proposal, and I am pleased that Emma Hult rejects the creation of state housing. It's amazing. With the problems we see in the housing market, where many find it difficult to enter the market, such a proposal, if implemented, would not work in any way other than to provide housing for specific groups, taking into account EU state aid rules. It is close to a very urgent and sometimes dangerous discussion about how to shape a social housing policy, and it is important for the future to take that kind of discussion seriously. But if it is the state that is going to solve the problems, I am extremely doubtful. Nevertheless, I repeat my question. Given the good conjunct urn, given the low interest rate and given increasing real wages there is a falling housing building. I'd like to hear Emma Hult's explanation... if it's not political fault.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-226	Madam President, I would like There is no global financial crisis right now, and Sweden is in a favourable economic position – much thanks to the red-green government that is currently ruling the country. Thanks to this location a lot is built. Yes, construction has fallen slightly in recent years, but more housing will still be started in the coming years than started in the years you ruled. We must not forget that. I would also like to come up at higher levels in how many homes are produced. However, as I mentioned in my speech, more factors are needed. It is about how many people can work in the sector in Sweden today. It is a narrow sector where much needs to be done. The government is also making efforts to get more people to work in that sector. There are a number of things that need to be done in the future in this area. I would also like to comment on the Left Party's proposal for state-owned construction companies. This is not an issue that we in the Green Party are pushing. However, there are Akademiska Hus, and you are also in favour of the company. It is an interesting discussion because it is a state-owned company that builds housing. Both Ola Johansson's party and my party are positive. But I do not believe that the state has the physical responsibility to build up the housing shortage. On the other hand, I believe that municipal housing companies have a great deal of responsibility. On the day the economy enters another stage, we must ensure that municipal housing companies continue to build. They did not do so during your reign, not in the first four years, nor in the last four years. It is our responsibility to ensure that municipal housing companies also dare to take responsibility for building housing for everyone in the municipality in a recession.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-231	Madam President, I would like Emma Hult commented in her post Jimmie Åkesson's statement that it may be necessary to demolish homes in Sweden. That's correct. At worst, it could be a solution. In Denmark, demolition has been a good solution, implementing this form of policy in unsafe areas as a way of getting rid of the vulnerable areas. Such areas are growing very much in numbers in Sweden. They increase in numbers for each year that the police submit a new report on vulnerable areas in Sweden. The Swedish Democrats have planned in the budget to make efforts for area planning in areas where insecurity is spreading. It's one way to get away from the problems there. The police have pointed out five different reasons why it is so difficult to operate in these areas. One reason is just how the areas are planned. When the million-programmed areas were built, they were not planned on the basis that such a situation could arise. What does the government do to prevent more such areas from becoming particularly vulnerable and to reduce the number of vulnerable areas? I see a policy that increases the conditions for more areas to be particularly vulnerable and insecure, for example through the government's proposal for fixed-term building permits that can last up to 15 years. Temporary inadequate housing is set up, thus creating new problem areas in Sweden. That is the government's strategy in this area. The strategy of the Swedish democrats is primarily to create good conditions for building away the alienation areas, ultimately – in the worst case – to have to tear down areas to create security in Sweden again.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-234	Madam President, I would like I'm getting a little upset. I hoped somewhere that Roger Hedlund would, if not, explain how the demolition of parts of the housing stock will create more housing for those who today have no place to live. We have a widespread housing shortage in many municipalities around our country. As Roger Hedlund says, there are a lot of areas that also have problems and challenges. I do not believe that these challenges are being met by tearing down those areas. I rather believe in work at school and with the people who work in the areas, in the increased presence of different authorities and in the densification of these areas. The areas that Roger Hedlund is trying to paint, the millions of programme areas, are areas that in many cases have very good standards of the homes that are built. So it would be a disaster in economic terms to tear down homes that we have made such a great contribution in terms of capital to building. We need to develop these areas, not phase them out. I simply wonder and ask the question again: Is it the purpose of the Swedish Democrats for us to tear down parts of our housing stock and for it to make more people get a place to live?
i-16549c8b2ba66885-238	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the answer, Emma Hult! My counter-question will then be: How did the government think when it conducted the immigration policy that we have seen in Sweden for many years? What kind of foresight was there when planning where these people should live? We have an extremely high housing shortage in Sweden, and it is created by the government – both the former alliance government and the current government. This is where the first thing to do is to create foresight in the residential area if you now want to stand for this very inefficient policy of helping people – to help a few in Sweden instead of helping the vast majority of those in need of help who cannot come to Sweden. It is the policy of the Swedish Democrats: help on the ground in the first place. It would also create the conditions for obtaining housing balance in Sweden. This is the first effort that the Swedish Democrats will make to achieve housing balance. Then there are several other policy areas where you can improve opportunities to increase construction in Sweden by increasing competition, improving opportunities for more construction companies to act on the market and so on. But at this stage we are talking about the particularly vulnerable areas where crime like drug trafficking is taking place openly, people are afraid to witness and religious extremism is spreading. It is in the residential areas we are talking about that we could go in Denmark's footsteps and implement a successful policy to get rid of these unsafe areas. In the first instance, however, the Swedish democrats are planning for an area planning that would enable these areas to increase their security. We have also contributed to this in our budget. But my question is how the government thought when creating conditions for more of these unsafe areas, when they created a high housing shortage in Sweden just because they believe that immigration to Sweden is a better way to help than to help all the people who cannot come to Sweden.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-243	Madam President, I would like The government has not created the situation that we see in some parts of the world where today there is war and conflict. These people are not coming here because of government policy. They come here because they don't have an alternative. You want to tear down homes in Sweden today. Their homes in their homelands have been demolished by bombs, wars and fires. I do not see that as a solution to this problem. It becomes quite clear to me that the Swedish Democrats are happy to move on to problems, close their eyes to problems or want to ban problems and not find solutions to them. We see a series of such examples in debates that are currently taking place, and I find it frightening. You want to help in place. That's great. We do that too – Sweden is one of the countries that helps by far the most with aid work on the ground. But we also take responsibility for the people who want to come here and become part of Swedish society. We will ensure that Sweden grows strong and stronger in the future. To meet the challenges we face, we need an increasing population, and that increase will come not only from Swedish-born people but also from those born in other countries. It welcomes the Green Party and the other parties in the Riksdag, and we are pleased that Sweden is increasing its population. We must also take responsibility for them to become part of Swedish society.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-246	Madam President, I would like The reality seems to be Emma Hult, the worst enemy of the Green Party and Social Democrats. I will repeat what I said in my speech, just so that we remember. The housing shortage leads to more companies moving from the Stockholm region, is a headline. 中 Record-long housing queue – 600,000 people queue for one tenancy lease is another. It's only in Stockholm. And on top of that, the government is about to kill the tenant-owners, says Wallenstam, the CEO of the real estate Wallenstam in an interview. It's government policy. What solutions does the Green Party have for the approximately 1 million people – probably more – who are in line in Sweden? Well, then we can read in the government's policy on feminist urban planning. In Stockholm we have seen that Daniel Helldén has feminist snow clearance. When asked about it, he replied that the feminist snow clearance works well – much of the year. He probably means when it's not snowing. Then it is of course interesting that the Environmental Party wants this planning or activity to be lifted up to the national level. There have been round tables on feminist urban planning aimed at taking a broad approach to unequal distribution of power with an intersectional perspective. It is probably not only me who is curious, but it is probably also all those who are in line for rental rights who want to know how this has facilitated housing construction in Sweden. In what way does it make it easier for the young person who wants to leave home that Peter Eriksson in his precious time sits and discusses feminist urban planning?
i-16549c8b2ba66885-250	Madam President, I would like It almost sounds like Lars Beckman would have wanted to be there when he mentions the round table talks. Minister of Housing Peter Eriksson is holding more round tables than just on this subject. Since I have been allowed to participate in a number of them, I can say that they are very rewarding. For me, feminist snow clearance has nothing to do with the social planning we are debating here today. But the fact that our societies should not be planned for everyone is interesting to hear. For a very long time– I'm not going to say a year; you get easily stuck in numbers, as we heard our colleague Ola Johansson do earlier, so I'm going to be careful about that and to confuse numbers– I've thought it's important to plan our societies for everyone. We know research that if we plan from an equal perspective, what Lars Beckman wants to call feminist social planning, society becomes inclusive for more. I don't think that's wrong. When it comes to those in the housing queue in Stockholm, I want to say that feminist social planning should plan how society should be designed. The fact that housing is then built in that society does not mean that less housing is built. I don't know what makes you think that, Lars Beckman. Housing construction is part of community planning, but it is a much bigger issue. We get it easy to sound like it's all about building houses, but we also have to plan the community around it. How do people move? How will people move in the future? What will our lives look like in 50 years? I say 95 years because I want the houses to be there for at least 100 years. I don't really understand what you're so upset about. You are welcome to develop a little what is so problematic about us planning our societies from a feminist perspective. As a feminist, I think it's pretty nice.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-253	Madam President, I would like So my simple question to Emma Hult was how it makes it easier for us to solve the housing shortage in Sweden that the housing minister is in a round table on feminist urban planning. I think everyone heard that we did not get an answer to that question. There are concrete proposals. We have heard it in housing policy debates today. An interplay alliance has concrete proposals. We are passionate about taking over government power this autumn, and it is clear that this will lead to increased construction. One of the proposals put forward by the Moderates is that we should have rent purchases for young people, that is, that you first rent and then after about 15 years or what time limit it will be, have the opportunity to buy out your apartment – if you want – and live in a right-of-occupancy apartment. It would be interesting to know what the Green Party thinks about it. Do you want to participate in developing a proper rental purchasing system in Sweden so that even young people can afford to own their home? Does the Green Party also want more people to have the money to own their home? Is this a priority for the Green Party? What conclusions have you drawn from the war headlines that have been that the government is about to kill the tenant-owners? It's your minister who is responsible for that policy, Emma Hult. Many people also want to live near water. There are an infinite number of lakes in Sweden and a long coast. Many people want to live close, so I would also like to ask the Green Party if you want to join in reforming the beach protection in Sweden so that more people can live where they want to live, close to water. Does the Green Party see a need for more balanced and flexible legislation that allows more people to live close to water?
i-16549c8b2ba66885-258	Madam President, I would like If you ask the non-residential group today what type of dwelling they want and if they have any special wishes, the answer is usually no– they want a place to stay. I see this as our most important mission. We know that people in this group usually have lower incomes and sometimes live with very small margins. That they could ask for a dwelling – an apartment, a villa or a holiday home – in a beachfront or lakeside location is not quite clear to me. It is important that housing is created for this group of individuals, so that people have the opportunity to live and we reduce the housing shortage that exists in Sweden today. It's great to hear that you're burning with the desire to take over. You are obviously passionate about setting up an inquiry into national interests – an investigation such as you set up last term of office. It didn't give the result you wanted, so now you want to add a new one. Amazing! It is good that you are passionate about this. We should also make sure that we move forward, and I think that we need broad consensus on national interests there. There are interests of various kinds. We were told earlier by one of our colleagues that they may be fewer even if you wanted to sound as if you were in agreement on this; I did not feel that way. Rent purchase is a model used in Sweden today. Riksbyggen is currently building such apartments in Järfälla. I don't mind. But I wonder how you want them to be more. Do you want to subsidise this type of housing, or what do you want to do? The law clearly provides the opportunity to build such homes today. For the Green Party, it is important that we build housing that people can afford to demand. We have people who are currently without accommodation, and that is not something we can accept.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-264	Madam President, I would like We are going to debate a proposal on housing allowance, which is largely good. Unfortunately, however, the government has chosen to remove Boverket's proposal on the housing adjustment allowance for fire protection measures, on the grounds that it is problematic to decide who will receive the grant. I am opposed to this simplified description. Rather, I think that there is a great risk that fire protection issues with the Government's construction end up between two chairs. There is a great risk of arbitrariness. I don't think it should matter which municipality you live in. When it comes to something as important as this, clarity is needed. Of all those who die in Sweden, 90 per cent do so in their homes. Older people are overrepresented among those who die in fires. About half of those killed in fires each year, that is, over 50 people, are over 60 years old. It is the lonely elderly who are killed by fire. Many of these are known by social authorities in the municipalities, and fire protection measures could have been introduced, such as mobile sprinklers, stove guards or something else. This would have a major impact on reducing the number of deaths in fires. Last year 113 people died in fires, which is the highest figure in seven years. I think we have a responsibility to break the negative trend. Older people, whether they choose to stay at home or not can be accommodated in a retirement home or if they actually have a place in a retirement home, must have the same level of protection. The fire protection level shall be high. Nor should it matter when the retirement home was built, if it was before or after 2012. There is a great inequality here. Generally speaking, those who die of fire are subject to action on account of age or disability or otherwise. Fire often occurs in their immediate vicinity, that is, in clothing or in the furniture they sit in. In these cases, rapid detection of the fire is needed to reduce the risk of spreading and victims can be assisted by staff or an automatic extinguishing system. Overall, it will have the best effect to bring down the number of deaths in fires if more municipalities work with individualised fire protection for those who remain at home in their homes. Instead of ensuring adequate fire protection for the elderly, too many municipalities are driving expensive legal proceedings against this. The Swedish Civil Protection and Preparedness Authority, MSB, has a zero vision: no one should perish or be injured as a result of fire. By 2020, MSB wants to reduce the number of deaths to 80 people per year. If we are to achieve that goal, action is needed. The government is right that, for example, efforts supported by the Social Services Act and increased knowledge of fire protection for the identified risk groups may be a step in the right direction, but much more needs to be done. The conclusions of the Fire Protection Association are about increased fire safety for those who are sick, confused or old. There, for example, a functioning smoke detector is rarely enough. Smoke detectors may have to be connected to a security alert. As mentioned above, some form of cooker or mobile sprinklers may be needed. The fact that all municipalities take fire protection into account when helping older people to adapt their homes should be a matter of course. All pensioner organisations agree on this issue. It's about securing our older people's fire protection. When the position of older people in society was measured a few years ago by the World Values Survey, Sweden was the second lowest ranked country. Sometimes I wonder if it is some people's view of older people that makes you not choose to invest more in this. I heard from pensioners' organisations that the Green Party blamed that the Minister for Housing had nothing to do with this; it was the Minister for Social Affairs. It's so easy to blame each other. In the end, I think we need to be very clear: this may be a cost. Perhaps it was rather the Ministry of Finance who thought that we cannot demand this from the municipalities unless we also give them more money. But then I think you need to ask yourself, What is a life worth? Is it worthy that today people die in fires in their homes? With rather simple systems, we could do this. I think that those who vote on the committee's proposal rather than on the reservation that I, together with the Moderates, have tabled today should give some thought to what human life is worth. Perhaps you should listen to your expert authorities. You can't have a zero vision, as MSB has said, and instruct another expert authority to produce a bill and then just put it in the trash. To me, this debate shows that this is only part of the problem. The vulnerability and insecurity that fire statistics so brutally bring to light is not just about the risk of fires. It is about a society where many older people are forced to live in a home that limits their opportunities for contact and their ability to move around. In doing so, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 3.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-276	Madam President, I would like After that fire speech by Caroline Szyber, I do not need to repeat everything wisely that has been said. I was going to comment on the new Act on Housing Adjustment Allowance in general. Of course, for many families in need of housing adaptation, this is a vital effort. I've read the government bill, and we Moderates are behind it. But I'll be really honest: Can I guarantee that this will be an improvement for disabled people in Sweden in need of housing adjustment allowance? No, of course I can't. However, should it turn out that the government is also making a deterioration in this area, the new alliance government will of course have to review this legislation in the autumn. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, if any group in society has been betrayed by this government, it is the disabled. We have been able to see how, for example, those in need of personal assistance, LSS, have been subjected to the government crusade. Thousands of people have seen their LSS getting involved. We've seen the government redo the car support for disabled people. And the Liberals, in this House, have rightly highlighted the fact that very few people are being granted car support. I met this weekend a family whose children had tragically passed away. They told of the struggle they had had to have a decent life with assistance, to get a housing adjustment in the municipality in which they lived and to get their car adapted while they were able to cope with life. Few of us can imagine this situation. I have also seen the alarming signals that the government has sent out that there have been strong cuts in the LSS. These are signal effects to Sweden's municipalities that are very unhappy. Some municipalities have said roughly the following in the media: No, we do not want to grant housing allowances. We think it is better for the disabled child to live in an institution – a nursing home. Mr President, I would like to I do not want to see such a development. I do not want disabled people in Sweden to be referred to institutional housing because they have their assistance withdrawn or because they do not get a housing adaptation that makes it possible for them to live at home. It is therefore very important that the security systems work for these families. That is why I hope that this new Housing Adjustment Grant Act will make it a more equal treatment in the municipalities of Sweden. Of course, this should not lead to a deterioration. The aim must be that, when you find yourself in a situation and need the support of society, this support must work. Society's support must work. Caroline Szyber argued very wisely and well for why fire protection should of course be included. We Moderates are behind travel rivation 3, but I'm not going to repeat everything wisely as she said. But I find it worrying that the government does not see fire protection as an important issue. It is clear that fire protection is an essential part of a person living at home and sitting in a wheelchair in order to survive if a fire occurs. There are therefore many good reasons why fire protection should be included in the housing allowance. Mr President, I would like to I hope that the purpose of this law, unlike the deterioration in LSS and unlike the deterioration in car support, is to ensure that in future we also have good protection legislation for those in need of housing allowance. If, for some reason, there are deteriorations here that we have not been able to see, we would ask to come back to the House this autumn. We therefore support much of this legislation. But I'm in favour of reservation 3 on fire protection.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-287	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. In times when we have strong reasons to doubt the government's intentions regarding the ambitions and costs of LSS, personal assistance, we must be on guard when there comes a new law on housing adaptation allowances. We have read it carefully and are in the main in favour of clarifying the rules on housing adaptation. The government has not yet dissociated itself from the proposals for savings in LSS, which have come from one of the government's appointed investigators, and the proposal that personal assistance be reviewed every two years. This is something that creates great anxiety and stress among people who, precisely because of access to assistants, can operate in society. Mr President, I would like to One such person is Maria from the village Axtorna outside Köinge in Falkenberg, a village known for a great battle in which we hallänningar fought against the wicked Swedes in the 1400s. Twelve years ago, Maria broke her neck by accident, a common accident. We can all do that, but it often does not have such dramatic consequences. Maria was completely paralyzed from the neck down and since then is dependent on personal assistance around the clock wherever she is. She lives in the house with her husband, her children and the hunting dog. Twelve years ago, her plans for life were based on her being able to move freely and plan things at short notice, things that most people between the ages of 35 and 40 see as self-evident. But after a long time in the hospital, this changed after it became clear that she would need a very extensive help. Once at home in the large house, the family realized that there was plenty to do so that Maria could stay and continue to work with her family – with work, school, leisure activities, rest and association with family and friends. Because Maria was well insured, the family was able to expand the house with the facilities resulting from the accommodation and also the allowance and a little more. The family could also get a big enough car for Maria and her wheelchair and for the assistants, one of them as a driver, one as a passenger and another as a companion. Another thing that she realized early on was that if she is to have people working with her in her home every 24 hours a day seven days a week, there must be spaces primarily for family life to work, so that all family members can feel that they can maintain their integrity with strangers in the home while sitting on the TV sofa or at the kitchen table or when they are in the bathroom. But there must also be room for the personal assistants, who are always available at home, to need rest, rest and time for themselves between the hours and during the hours. They should be able to thrive in the home where they work and be able to do a good job. Hence, there are also such facilities in the family's home. That is one of the reasons why it works so well compared to how it would work without these spaces. When Boverket developed the basis for the government's proposal, it was precisely measures that protect the integrity that were highlighted, but they have been deleted by the government. It is unclear why the government has done so. Although the Boverket pointed to problems of interpretation, it felt that support could be given for such spaces in Maria's home. Maria is socially involved in a different way than she was before the accident twelve years ago. She was asked after the accident if she wanted to take political assignments for the Center Party, and she sits as a referee in the District Court. She is also a member of the Social Welfare Board of Falkenberg Municipality and a deputy member of the Municipal Council. With the help of her assistants, she's capable of doing anything. In the run-up to this election, of course, she expects a regular place. Already during our party meeting last autumn, she made herself known as a spokesperson on disability issues, with the assistants at her side. Since she cannot breathe herself and lacks movement and feeling from the neck down, it must be so. But it works thanks to her and the assistants she has hired and scheduled to attend meetings and events at home, vacation trips and meetings around Sweden. Mr President, I would like to It was Maria who gave me the idea of suggesting that the rules on housing adaptation, now that they are to be redeployed, should be supplemented with the possibility of granting allowances for rooms for personal assistants in the homes. I had hoped that the other parties would have seen it as an oversight on the part of the government and supported our motion, which was also supported by the Boverket Foundation. For us in the Center Party, it goes without saying that with personal assistance that works and is allowed to cost, people who have been injured or born with a disability receive the best possible support. I think the example I have just told you about describes how it could be a profit for society. In the opinion of the Social Affairs Committee in the report, both the representative of the Center Party and the representative of the Swedish Democrats stress the motion of the Center Party. That is why I would like to endorse Amendment No 1 on the premises of assistance staff. For time winning, I decline to agree to our reservation on efforts to facilitate broadband installation in homes where it has not previously been developed. The reason for this is that it naturally facilitates many of the care measures that can be taken, plus that it creates completely different conditions to participate in society via social media and actively participate in what is happening, not least through the much larger digital TV offering available via broadband. Once again, we should remember that, as in Maria's case, this can be about a life suddenly changing and that what you previously did not think you needed to become vital measures– which will create the conditions for through housing adaptation.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-298	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the CU6 report to be approved. The Government has submitted a proposal for a new Act on Housing Adjustment Allowance. The housing adjustment allowance is an expression of society's goal that all people with disabilities should be able to live like everyone else in their own home. I want it to be clear, because there are some people who are trying to insinuate that we would not want that. The Government has concluded that there is a need to review the current Act on Housing Adaptation Allowances for, among other things, adapting to current disability policies in order to put the applicant's right at the centre, simplify the administration of municipalities and make the legislation predictable and clear to the individual. The proposal states that it is the individual with a disability who should apply for the housing adjustment allowance. This means that the applicant is given greater privacy protection, has a greater opportunity to influence the type of adaptation and should be able to appeal against a refusal decision itself. We believe that it is the responsibility of society to ensure that people with disabilities have the opportunity to be fully involved and live independent lives. There are two proposals which have been raised and which I think are worth mentioning in the discussion. First, it concerns Caroline Szyber's and Lars Beckman's claim regarding fire. Of course, we also think that these are very important issues. We don't want any human being to burn inside and die. If anyone believes that and tries to put it on Facebook, I am now firmly denouncing it in this House. However, with regard to, for example, cooker and cooker timers, there are already today, and the possibility of applying for the housing allowance will not disappear. The question is the simpler sprinkler systems, and just as the government believes such support can be obtained through the Social Services Act. It is also a question of increasing knowledge about fire protection for the identified risk groups; it is of course very important. If we go back to the points I mentioned, about moving forward, we see that it is a question of placing the applicant at the centre and that it is the people themselves who are seeking. A system in the new law that allows others to seek or denounce the deficiency may be counterproductive. Nevertheless, we see that the Social Services Act provides for the possibility of having this measure carried out. The municipalities also see this as difficult – what should the borderline be like? It is also a question of looking at the quality, as well as the uncertainty and uncertainty of applicants, relatives and homeowners, as regards the decisions on these issues. This does not, therefore, simplify the administration of municipalities, which is, of course, the purpose of simplifying this part. So we remain in our position here, but that does not mean in any way that we do not think the issue is important. Instead, we believe that this can be solved by the Social Services Act. Ola Johansson has mentioned this with the integration part for those who work in the homes. As a trade unionist, I obviously think it is a very important issue that those who work have the possibility of space being in, but it is difficult to make the delimitation – because different people have different housing. In case Ola mentions, a small house, perhaps you can build more easily, but what should you do in a rental apartment, for example? How are we going to deal with the issue there? There are some difficulties that we think need to be taken into account when looking at this. What reasons for increased privacy should be considered valid, and who should be able to substantiate the need? There are still some problematic parts of this that prevent us from going ahead with it in this case. Once again, Mr President, I would like to support the proposal contained in the CU6 report of the Committee on Civil Liberties.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-308	Mr President, I would like to When I listen to Leif Nysmed, I feel that he should have come up with the breakfast that I and Mats Green arranged earlier this spring, because I have to say that one is a little afraid of the ignorance shown by both parts of the government when it has presented this and is now also bought by large parts of the committee. The conclusions are based on referrals from municipal administrators, who themselves think that this may be a bit difficult. But the National Fire Cooperation Group – which works on this, which meets and is really an expert group – says that it is very strange that, after Boverket has made a proposal, it continues to put fire protection under the responsibility of the social services. As I said earlier: I think there is a huge risk that this falls between the chairs of the government's construction, and I think there is an incredible risk of arbitrariness. I have two questions for Leif Nysmed. The first is: why have you not addressed the problem when a retirement home is built? Why should it be the year 2012 that determines the fire safety of our elderly, i.e. depending on the retirement home they live in? That's my first question. My second question is: why is it not listening to the expert authority and making this much clearer and putting people's needs in focus? Often you know; these people have been at risk for a long time, and they get support and help in their homes. You can even very easily – some municipalities have tested this – have a sprinkler system and then remove it. There'll be no extra cost. I really think that in these cases it is so clear that money has been left to determine more than people's needs. I find it regrettable and regrettable, Leif Nysmed, and I think it says a great deal about your view of this.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-313	Mr President and Caroline Szyber! I think it's going to be such a boring mood, because it's pasting us that we would like people to get hurt. That's kind of not the point. We have looked at this, it has been out for a referral and there have been various considerations, and we have landed in this. You boast a little bit that the referrals of municipal administrators and municipalities would not be knowledge-based, Caroline Szyber, but they also highlight what you are concerned about: the risk of arbitrariness in handling. One wonders how one should prove the need for the automatic, how the circle of people who need the action should be captured and so on. Then we also go away from what we had and, as I mentioned, that it is the applicant who is being put at the centre. Here it would be others who come in and will point out a flaw that someone needs to have fixed. In fact, we still believe that this can be resolved under the Social Services Act. If there are any shortcomings in this, we must look at it, of course, but I do believe in the officials who produce this basis. I don't think they're sitting around thinking: No, older people aren't a group we need to take care of. In order for it to be a housing adjustment grant based on the points we have talked about – that it is the applicant who is put at the centre, that the administration of municipalities should be simplified and that it should be smooth – I still think that this is a good system. This particular part, i.e. the sprinkler systems, can be captured by the Social Services Act. For the other parts you mention, such as cookers and timers and such, will still be available.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-317	Mr President, I would like to It is a bit of fun that the Social Democrats find labels difficult. You are master at pasting labels on everything and everyone, talking about children being put on the stock market and so on. In this case, it is crystal clear to me that you are not putting human dignity at the centre. Then I intend to take a high note, just as you have on other issues. For me, this is a matter of heart. I think it is extremely clear that people have not been put at the centre but that they find it difficult for certain administrators. To be perfectly honest, ask most of the elderly! How do you think they get support and help? You think it's easy and you just go to social services and get it? Do you know how much relatives need to fight for older people today to have the dignified old age to which they are entitled? It is not that you just call Social Services and get a place in a retirement home yourself. We have a shortage of retirement homes in most of the country's municipalities. I really want an answer from Leif Nysmed: Why should it play a role in the security that the residents and staff of a retirement home receive if the retirement home is built before or after 2012? Today is a huge difference. You have not taken hold of this. You're talking about leaning on things. Perhaps you should lean on the expert group that has been working on fire protection issues for a long time—which you yourself have appointed—and listen to them. I think it is clear that there is something else that has been put at the centre – something is complicated and perhaps expensive. But I think some things in our society should cost. A worthy old age is such a thing.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-323	Mr President, I would like to To raise the tone a little, I think this is still being caught up here. It is by no means forbidden to introduce this. There are still opportunities in the Social Services Act to obtain this support if there is a reason for it. In the proposal for a housing allowance that we have put forward, we have placed the individual at the centre. It is the individual who should have the opportunity to apply for and be able to get the measures requested by the person. Of course, there is also the possibility for those who need help in searching further – you can give permission to do so. We believe that this part concerning sprinklers is addressed through the support of the Social Services Act. The other questions you mentioned earlier are also included in the housing adjustment allowance. In order for there to be no doubt as to how the circle of people who need these measures should be caught up, we believe that this should be under the Social Services Act, as is the case today. I would like to point out that we believe that older people are as valuable as any other members of society. Caroline Szyber tries to stick on us labels and says we don't care about them. I have a mother who lives at home and who has got her home adapted by the Social Services Act, which has gone very well. It is not that it is somehow impossible. That you, Caroline Szyber, are standing here trying to accuse me that I would think my mother is not right that she should have, I think I'm fucking gross. Excuse me, but now I'm getting a little touched. I apologize. ( Andre VICE TALMANNEN: I would ask Members to think about the expressions they use. )
i-16549c8b2ba66885-328	Mr President, I would like to It is easy that this kind of debate will be about your sick mother. But it is good that Leif Nysmed normally addresses the trade union perspective on the issues. I understand that he can easily understand what it's like to work as a personal assistant. You are probably a member of Kommunal, a trade union where in most cases it is natural that you have places to be able to withdraw in during a free time or when at the moment you do not perform a work effort with your users. This includes having your own toilet available, having shower facilities, and being able to withdraw when a private telephone call is received. But this is not the case in this context. I try to describe it not only from the personnel perspective but also from the user perspective and from the family situation. It may be a family who is used to socializing together in the evenings and who is used to sitting at the kitchen table discussing small things and solving small family conflicts that may arise in different contexts. It could be homework for the children and other things. In this situation, two people do professional and important work that is paid and is done under good union agreements and conditions. They work in this context and are referred to the sofa in front of the TV, to the kitchen table or to any other available space during the time the work is done. I find it strange that it should be so difficult – not only for Leif Nysmed and his government but also for other parties represented in this debate – to understand that this can be an important issue. I would like to ask Leif Nysmed whether he has not considered this from a user's perspective as well. I would like him to explain why he thinks this is a difficulty.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-333	Mr President, I would like to I can actually get into that part from a user perspective as well. There are two parties to this. One party is the person who is going to do the work and who, just as you describe, should be able to handle certain personal hygienic things and perhaps do not want to sit on the user's toilet led. Normally, there are staff spaces. This is a very specific job, where you're at someone's house. It is difficult to set up your own toilet or shower space in a rental apartment where there is only one toilet or just a shower. Of course, it's tricky. The other party is the user. I also understand from the user's perspective that you might want some privacy. You want to be able to sit in peace and quiet without having the assistant right on top of you. But it is true that we live in different types of housing, and there is a certain problem here. What should determine whether to receive such a measure? Is this something for houseowners only? How do you do it in a housing association? How do you do in a rental apartment? It's gonna be tricky. Where's the line going? There is also a risk that there will be large differences between different users. I do not think it is entirely clear in this proposal how it should be resolved. That is why it is not included in the proposal.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-337	Mr President, I would like to We have just discussed housing policy. We can note that there are very many different types of housing. There are many different types of tenure, and there are many different conditions for how to create things in your home. For example, you do not have the full right to change a tenancy in the way that you might do in a villa in which you live. These are perfectly familiar problems. The municipal administrator who has to handle an application for housing adaptation has to consider such matters in every case. Why, then, is it in this particular case so impossible to imagine that this could be an important and possible measure? That it is not possible to do so in all cases, is it sufficient reason to deny a person the possibility of being able to make a housing adjustment when the conditions exist? I can certainly mention a number of other examples where a certain measure that is eligible for the housing adjustment allowance cannot be taken because the dwelling poses different kinds of obstacles. The form of tenure does not allow these changes to be made to the dwelling either. Instead, the result is that you have to change your place of residence, and that is not something that is desirable. In the case I have described, it is a matter of a person who could stay and who could take this action. In another case, it might be harder. Here were the economic conditions for making these changes, but in other cases these economic conditions do not exist. What Leif Nysmed and his government options represent is that people who do not have the financial means to take these measures themselves should not be able to do so. I find that indecent. It is not worthy of a Social Democratic government.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-342	Mr President, I would like to I do not know if Ola Johansson is aspiring to become a social democrat, but I note that it is really only the Center Party and possibly the Swedish Democrats who think that this issue is enough to move on with. So it is not just the government that is in doubt about this. But as the government writes in the bill, there are a lot of relevant comments in the proposal. I largely agree with you on what you say, but I also see the problem in it. How extensive is such a measure to be? Which dwelling should the applicant be allowed to live in? What reasons for the increased integrity are considered valid? How do you prove it? There are some problems on this issue that are not fully resolved. That is why it is not included in the proposal. But I would like to say that Ola and I share quite a lot of views on this issue too.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-345	Mr President, audiences, viewers and listeners! The Red-Green feminist government works systematically and purposefully for a long-term sustainable welfare policy. An example of this work is the proposal for a new Act on Housing Adjustment Allowance. Most of the provisions of the old 1992 law are transferred to the new law, but in some cases with some clarifications and adaptations to current practice. It has been 26 years since the law came into being and there has been a lot of practice development, so it is no wonder that there needs to be a review. The law has also been interpreted in different ways in the different municipalities. With these changes, the idea is that assessments will be more equivalent throughout the country. One of the other reasons why the law is being revised is to bring it more into line with the current disability policy, and we have heard several speakers talk a lot about other areas of disability in our legislation. This means, among other things, that the applicant should become more visible in the law and be placed at the centre. The aim is also to simplify the management of municipalities, which are responsible for these issues, and to make their application more predictable than before. For example, it becomes clearer than before that those who undertake to regularly or periodically care for a disabled person in their own home should also be able to receive benefits for the adaptation of their own home for this purpose. A new feature is that, under the new law, municipalities can not only provide grants to adapt a dwelling but also to supplement a dwelling with fixed functions in or in connection with the dwelling. The lack of clarity in the past as regards the right to adaptation if the need can instead be solved by means of the local authority or the country government will disappear. The aim is to make management more equal throughout the country, because it has been different. The regulations for the change of residence will also be changed so that unnecessary additions will not have to be made. The new rules briefly mean that the choice of a new dwelling in case of a change is directed towards an alternative that gives you as little adaptation as possible. For example, in the case of new construction, the possibility of a lift subsidy is removed, as the legislator believes, which is reasonable, that it should not be built again in a way that deliberately creates the need for further adaptation. As the committee, as I understand it, agrees broadly with the Government's proposals, I will not spend more time talking about them, but I will use the rest of the speaking time to talk about the three reservations contained in the report and why we in the Green Party are calling for their rejection. Mr President, I would like to So there are three reservations in the report. The first reservation proposes to approve a proposal to provide, within the framework of the Housing Adaptation Act, the possibility of allowances for premises for personal assistants and other staff who need to stay at home. I believe that it is important to be able to do so where necessary, but that such problems must be dealt with in other legislation, for example in the framework of LSS legislation, because it is an employer's responsibility to ensure that staff have the necessary conditions to carry out their tasks. It is not the user's responsibility but the employer's responsibility to ensure that this works. Therefore, in my opinion, this proposal is not appropriate to include in the legislation on housing adjustment allowances. It would only contribute to uncertainty, as we already have with regard to disability policy, as to what legislation applies to what. The second reservation suggests that broadband installations should be specifically identified as a supplement to which grants should be provided. My view, which I believe the majority of the committee shares – I am not a member of the committee, so I dare not say it – is that the wording of the legislation on adaptations and complements better responds to the ever-changing reality in which legislation is to function than a list that we, as legislators, always know will be inadequate and old in relation to reality. That is why it is not an appropriate way to deal with the issue. The third reservation proposes the accommodation allowance for fire protection measures. That is, of course, a valid proposal. But fire protection issues are, in my opinion, a real estate issue and not an issue that fits in with the area of housing adaptation. The housing allowance is intended to improve the function of the disabled person's home and is not related to real estate issues. The question today lies in the Social Services Act instead. Mr President, I would like to I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for the reservations to be rejected.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-356	Mr President, I would like to We are talking today about housing allowance. People with disabilities should of course be able to live in their own home just like everyone else. It is against this background that we are now debating the housing allowance. It is an idea based on the principles that all people are equal in value and that everyone has the right to their freedom to live as you wish. Sometimes you need to make certain changes in your home in order to make it possible to live and move around in the home in just the way you want. The Parliament recently approved a new goal and a new direction for disability policy. The national objective of disability policy is to achieve equality of living conditions and full participation of people with disabilities in society. The objective shall contribute to increased gender equality and to taking into account the perspective of children's rights. The implementation of disability policy should focus on these four areas: the principle of universal design, existing gaps in accessibility, individual support and solutions for individual autonomy, and preventing and combating discrimination. I believe that the housing allowance is an important part of creating the equality of housing for all who are the objectives. I therefore think that the proposal is essentially good, a change for the better. However, I think that some things need to be developed in the future, because the fact is that the proposal is designed so that the grant can only be given if all the owners of a property have said yes and, in addition, promised not to claim compensation for restoring the adaptation measures. It then appears that it is more difficult for a disabled tenant to have his or her home adapted than for everyone else. I find that unfortunate and unfair. The need cannot reasonably be less for a tenant than, for example, a home owner. The proposal means that an owner of a multi-detached building will in principle always be able to receive a restoration grant from the municipality in order to restore the adaptation measures. We therefore believe that such consent should not be required for measures that do not cause material damage or inconvenience, but only in cases such as common spaces or carrying structures. It is a development of the contribution that should come at the next stage, is our opinion, in order to achieve equal living conditions.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-361	Mr President, I would like to Respect for individual freedom and dignity is the starting point for any liberal policy. It is particularly important when it comes to people who have encountered obstacles in life and for whom freedom is not self-evident. The goal of the Liberals' disability policy is to increase the individual's independence. As far as possible, people should have the same freedom and conditions regardless of functional variation. An important expression of this objective is the possibility of getting housing allowance for measures that facilitate everyday life. However, when the different parts of disability policy are subject to special treatment, the overall perspective is at risk of being lost. The goal is the individual's independence and self-determination. Housing adaptation is only one of several important elements of this work. Liberals consider this law on housing allowance to be very important. What in the financial sense is an increase in expenditure in one system can lead to significant cost savings in another, while at the same time increasing people's freedom. For example, well thought-out rehabilitation and aid systems can increase people's autonomy in everyday life. This may lead to someone taking up work and paying taxes instead of being dependent on sickness benefits. For someone else, it can reduce the need for personal assistance or the need for intervention from healthcare. The housing allowance can lead to savings in other areas and increase freedom. However, some parts of the proposed new law on housing allowance risk maintaining a drain pipe thinking. This applies, for example, to the rule that housing adjustment allowance should not be provided if the need can be met by means offered by the county council or municipality under the Health Care Act. It is, of course, reasonable that people should not receive double benefits. At the same time, it should be noted that almost all support schemes for persons with disabilities contain restrictions of this kind, i.e. that support should not be provided if the need is otherwise met. However, when the same human needs can be met within the framework of two different systems that have different principals, the risk of territorial thinking arises between the systems then put before the concrete needs of the individual. The wording of the law is not taken into account if the need is actually met in other ways. Liberals believe it is important that rules aimed at preventing beneficiaries from receiving double benefits should not be designed in such a way that they run the risk of not getting anything at all. There must be a flexible assessment with respect for the individual's self-determination. Mr President, I would like to Speaking of respect for the individual's self-determination, anyone with extensive disabilities should be able to live a life like everyone else. It is the starting point for Liberal policy and the right to personal assistance – one of the biggest freedom reforms in Swedish history and a freedom reform that Bengt Westerberg and our party were involved in and that we will defend at every opportunity that we get the chance to do so. The government's cuts have torn freedom away from far too many Swedes, and even more are threatened by the withdrawal of assistance due to the policies of the Social Democrats and the Green Party. Let me say how many there are, Mr President: there are 1 456 people and their families who have had their lives ruined because of government policy. These 1 456 people are now in danger of going to an institution because they are not getting any help at all. This is a result of the decision of the Social Democrats and the Green Party in 2015 to reduce the hours of personal assistance. Every Member of Parliament of the Social Democrats and the Green Party in this House is responsible for this. Every one of these 1456 is a human being and a destiny. The housing adaptation law we are discussing today does not help any of those whose lives the government has broken down. Personal assistance must now be restored so that assistance users and their relatives can regain their freedom. When we Liberals come back to power this autumn with the Alliance, we intend to save the assistance. Mr President, I would like to Recently the brilliant physicist Stephen Hawking died. He lived 50 years with ALS, which was 50 years longer than the doctors thought. Liberals defend the LSS reform and personal assistance to protect the freedom of people who would otherwise have no freedom whatsoever. We are also doing this so that people like Stephen Hawking can contribute their resources and brains to our society so that the world can develop and become better. We would be poorer without these people. We do not get Swedish Stephen Hawking without personal assistance, and we do not get Stephen Hawking with the policies of the Social Democrats and the Green Party.
i-5YdzfWKgoSuST6uKjAM7Nd	Mr President, I would like to This report on property law deals with many motions and reservations. One big issue where the government has done very little is the leasehold. That's why I'm going to dwell on it. The site leasehold system was created in 1907 as a solution for smaller people to build houses even if they could not afford to buy the plot. Today, being a landowner is characterised by insecurity, and the challenges of economic conditions are great. The set-aside is unchanged for normally ten years or longer. In the run-up to a new pay-off period, land increases can result in very strong increases in land leases. For those living in small houses, the new higher charges may mean that they are forced to move for economic reasons. For the municipalities, the long pay-off periods are problematic because they often lack sufficient skills to regulate the new pay-offs and therefore have to hire consultants. Under the alliance government, the Santa Claus and lease investigation was set up, which presented a number of proposals in its report Santa Claus's pay-off and redemption to modernise the property in plots of land. The investigation suggested, among other things, that the period of pay should be one year. For small house leaseholds, the valuation interval was proposed to be three years. The investigation also suggested that the interest rate on the interest rate should be set at a general interest rate based on the long-term real interest rate rather than the variable practice currently used. The investigation was prepared, and this preparation is still ongoing today. I would like to ask the government parties again what is happening. During my term of office, I asked Mr Kaplan, Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson and Minister of State Heléne Fritzon what initiatives they intend to take to modernise the rules governing the conditions for owners of plots. They have answered the question by saying that it is complex and have referred to that there is ongoing preparation in the Government Office. The rules on land leaseholds currently in force are difficult for municipalities. At the same time, they mean that a municipal club team can completely change the conditions for both owner-occupied houses and owner-occupancy associations with land leasehold rights. I think that the government, with its inaction during this term of office, is turning a blind eye to the negative effects of the current rules on the leasehold. Neither the Minister for Justice nor any other minister's answer shows a desire to create greater security for the landowners. When the investigation was launched, improved consumer protection in the right-of-occupancy market, there was an opportunity to look at several aspects of the situation of, for example, right-of-occupancy housing associations and to move on. But the land lease issue was not included in the directives. Nevertheless, I think it was positive. At the time, the investigation in question took the initiative to look at this a little extra. But again, the government has done nothing more. I must also question a little. Sometimes it feels like there is a policy that ultimately drives the residents from this form of housing to profit-making apartment buildings. This means that it is an external ownership that should make money on a social right, namely to live. How does this fit with government policies, which otherwise have a negative view of profits in other parts of society, such as welfare, education and schooling? I'm not making any sense at all. However, in several debates today, I have begun to wonder a little about valuation issues. I would also like to raise the issue of percentages in road transport. My alliance colleagues will raise this issue here today. The need to change the percentages is very great. They've said so many times that they want to get an investigation. Here, too, I wonder: When does the government intend to come back with an investigation? Will the opinion given by Mr Rev be listened to as well, so that a holistic approach can be taken on this issue? We need to ensure that small joint plants, small joint ventures, are given more opportunity to operate today. Now they are tied up and have difficulty making changes. That's not good. I demand for time winning consent to reservation 3.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-390	Mr President, I would like to I'll start by requesting for time winning consent to reservation 4. Of course, we also support all our other reservations. After the housing policy debate that we have had here this morning, we can see that there are very many people in Sweden who do not get a home. More must be built, and more must be built throughout Sweden. A major problem is Lantmäteriet's processing times. When I met the Moderate Council Chairman of Ljusdal, Lars Molin, we talked about how Ljusdal is progressing and what can be done better. He just stated that it is a big problem for Ljusdal that it takes up to two years to get permission to cut off land in Ljusdal. Mr President, I would like to It goes without saying that it cannot go on like that. Lantmäteriet must shorten its processing times. But other solutions are also needed. How do the municipalities want to solve this? Well, they have desperately tried to obtain an exemption from the government to set up their own municipal surveying service. Unfortunately, the government has refused. I am going to touch Caroline Szyber on what can be done about Lantmäteriet's processing times. One concrete thing is to let those who want to make things easier and do things themselves. Some time ago we had a seminar here in the Riksdag where we talked about just participations in road transport. There are concrete proposals from the industry or owners themselves to introduce simple regulatory simplifications. Given the situation we have today with very long processing times at Lantmäteriet, it is a little remarkable that the government parties do not see the possibility of listening to those who can come up with concrete actions and measures. It'll be a technical issue. But to make a long story short, I can say that you would have a system similar to that of housing associations, where you can change technicalities yourself, which means that Lantmäteriet could be relieved. Another point I was going to make today is that we Moderates believe that ownership is a fundamental right and right in the form of government. This view seems very different from at least one of the parties in the government base. Today you might think that the ownership position in Sweden is very weak. Forced action can be taken against the will of landowners. On the contrary, we think that the protection of property rights in Sweden should be strengthened. We develop that in our exercise. But I note that the Left Party, as I see it, wants to weaken ownership. I guess we'll find out later if that's true. I would like an explanation from the Social Democrats as to why they do not want to make concrete efforts to shorten the processing times at Lantmäteriet and why they do not support our reservation. Then we could have had a unanimous announcement from the Swedish Parliament today that concrete efforts can be made to shorten the time taken to deal with the participations in road accidents.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-400	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats have tabled a number of motions which are dealt with in this report. But I choose to highlight the community associations. We have a reservation about that. The associations currently play an important role in society in Sweden. It works together to create better conditions for common roads, water supply, playgrounds, docks, garbage rooms, marinas and the like. It is an important function in society and something that builds on working together to create better conditions. Many community associations today need to re-examine their common facilities. Such applications today take a long time and cost a lot of money. Here is a proposal from the National Association of Individual Roads, Rev. They propose something similar to the Finnish model, where the joint societies themselves decide on percentages. Today it is the Lantmäteriet that decides. It is both cost-driven and takes a long time. The Swedish Democrats believe that in this case one could simplify, in order to create better conditions for the important activities that take place in Sweden through the community associations. The Swedish Democrats have a reservation in this area. I choose to ask for the approval of reservation 5 from the Swedish Democrats on participation rates in joint societies.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-405	Mr President, I would like to TV viewers! We can begin by saying that many people seem to agree that the long processing times at Lantmäteriet are a reason for hindering housing construction. I know Lantmäteriet is working on shortening processing times. But it is also a relatively small case of complex cases that creates an unfair picture of slowness. Among others, we in the Center Party have proposed ways of simplifying the handling of Lantmäteriet by simply removing certain tasks and leaving it to the parties directly so that they can decide together. This applies precisely to the recalculation of shares in road accidents and the Finnish model which, among others, the National Association of Individual Roads highlights in a letter to the Government. They also seem to have courted all parties in this regard. It is also serious when local municipal surveying authorities are closed down. Instead, the Centre Party would like to see a system whereby certain activities currently under Lantmäteriet are placed on private operators. They would of course have the same requirements for sharing free of geodata and digital maps. Access to geodata in digital form is an important issue for the future. A request for an investigation could involve quite a few reforms in the field of surveying. I do not believe that the Finnish model solves all the problems described by Rev. I imagine that a road-consistency with many shareholders of varying sizes and involvement may need to be sorted out with the help of the authorities and sometimes even the courts. But do not let the best become the enemy of good! That is why I also support the Alliance's reservation 4. When it comes to landowners' right to compensation in the event of various infringements, I see that there are strong points of contact between Moderate reservation 7 and our own reservation 9. I am in favour of our own reservation, but I can also give my oral support to our common ideas as expressed in the Moderate reservation text. Ownership rights are enshrined in the Swedish Constitution, the European Convention and the UN Declaration on Human Rights. The basis for a functioning market economy is to guarantee the protection of people's property. In the event of an infringement, they shall be compensated in a fair and legally secure manner. Unfortunately, that is not what we are seeing today in the exercise of authority. When the state claims land – whether it is a matter of protecting habitats and stopping farming, for example by prohibiting logging of forests, or whether it is because society needs the necessary infrastructure to be developed – there need to be obstacles and circumstances that make it difficult for you landowners to object and opportunities for fair compensation. One example is the formation of water protection areas. Protecting drinking water is central. The water is our most important food. But sometimes it also goes beyond the landowner's ability to farm fields to grow food. When nature reserves are formed the purpose is hopefully good, but the one affected is the landowner, who may have had other plans for their land. The compensation must be proportionate to the infringement, the infringement must be proportionate to its benefits and the landowner must be offered early to be involved in the process of creating such reserves. Then the various benefits of the forest will be expressed. The forest that is harvested can be used for building, pulp and fuel. It should also be able to be replanted to recapture and store the carbon dioxide that we have received too much in the atmosphere through human activity. Management streets are an intrusion, however necessary, but they also provide an indirect environmental impact, as they prevent forests from growing where they are pulled out. We need to find forms, Mr President, to replace this – not only economically, but also with new plants to capture carbon dioxide and reduce climate impact. If compensation cannot be paid before the land is claimed for protection or other infringement, there shall also be no infringement. This is an important principle for the Center Party. The principle of housing construction shall be low-ground exploitation. I am well aware that in some cases it is impossible to avoid the use of arable land in housing, but this should be avoided as far as possible. Whether previously privately owned land is used for road or residential purposes, it must be replaced. I request the approval of reservation 12 on the Land Acquisition Act. The existing restrictions may be considered untimely and need to be reviewed in order to promote small-scale active forestry and agricultural farming and private and personal ownership. It must then be repeated that today's beach protection rules are the greatest limitation of property rights that we see, as has also been said before in the debates here. These rules have implications for housing, but also for rural development.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-420	Mr President, I would like to We are debating property law today. Land policy and property law are a fundamental part of housing policy. Without land for housing and, for that matter, other types of property, we cannot rebuild the housing shortage or build good habitats. Our cities and towns are collective resources where we should all be able to co-operate and have room for everything from community life to cafés and schools. As house prices have skyrocketed, recently we have also seen signs of land speculation. Companies buy and sell land only to make money from the price increase. In the end, prices are passed on to those who buy or rent a dwelling. This has pushed up the prices of housing. Every actor in the community building chain has since wanted to make money. It has not been healthy or good for those who have wanted a home. Those who ultimately have housing responsibility are municipalities and politics. This means that municipalities need tools to guarantee housing for all residents. Without the tools to implement it, we also find it difficult to make demands for it to happen. One of the most important parts of the toolbox is soil policy. With many private landowners it is difficult to influence the construction. The policy will then be left to the good will of individual property owners, which risks leading to uneven, unpredictable and inadequate construction. It is therefore of particular importance to facilitate the possibility for municipalities to purchase and own very exploitable land. Many municipalities find it difficult to meet their statutory responsibility for housing supply. Part of the reason is that the eight-year bourgeois government ownership significantly weakened the possibility for municipalities to buy land in order to plan for urban development. One of the tools which the bourgeois government abolished, against the express will of the municipalities and against the very clear advice of the authorities, was the pre-purchase law. It has impaired the ability to buy attractive buildable land. A pre-purchase law means that the municipality has pre-purchase rights for certain types of immovable property. In some cases, a municipality may take the place of the buyer and take the contract signed for the purchase of a property. For the seller, it does not mean any difference, as it is the same purchase price as applies. The municipalities are very critical that they no longer have any support in a pre-purchase law. This makes the development of physical settlements and agglomerations much more complicated. This has also meant that it is much more difficult to keep track of the housing market and the real estate transactions that are taking place in the municipality – important information that the municipalities previously had access to and had great benefit from in urban development. The Left Party wants to introduce some variant of the Pre-Buy Act to strengthen the possibilities of building more homes. I know that there are also government parties that have a congressional decision to implement the Pre-Buy Act, and I hope that their representatives will vote in favour of this. Active housing policy requires active land policy. Mark needs to be bought in and built on. The big problem we have seen since the time of the bourgeois government is that the municipalities, that is, the taxpayers – all of us in here and out there – are the only actors in Sweden who have to pay a much higher price than the market price for property purchases. The reason is that the statutory expropriation compensation is 25 per cent higher than the market value of a property owned by, for example, a construction company. The expropriation allowance is fundamentally of no independent importance. We hardly ever expropriate in Sweden. But it forms the basis for all the sales agreements that municipalities enter into with different private property owners. Indirectly, there is therefore today an incentive to speculate on land – to buy it and then try to get the municipality to pay an excess price for it. It's a very strange order. Large property owners such as construction companies and real estate developers are currently overcompensated when sold to the municipality. They will receive compensation for any expected value of the land, which of course can be increased in the future, and a further 25%. This is therefore not the case for any other private buyer, but the law recommends that it should be a particularly bad deal only when it is the taxpayers who stand as customers. This change in the rules has pushed up land prices and today it is very expensive for municipalities to purchase land for residential construction. The government would have to change the regulatory framework. The municipalities have a statutory requirement to provide for the housing situation of residents. Then it is unusually stupid to increase the cost of land purchase and thereby create a huge obstacle to building up the housing shortage. Mr President, I would like to Buying a home is probably the biggest business for many people. It's not very often you do it. It is therefore of particular importance that all those involved feel confident about what applies. Recently, prices have been very high and the pace quite high. It's been a seller's market. In this context, brokers have an important role to play. The Swedish Consumer Agency describes the real estate brokerage area as one of the most problematic markets in the world. For many, the scope of their responsibilities is unclear. It is not uncommon to feel a little cheated or under-informed about a purchase, something you might rather not talk about, because you have just then invested so much in a dwelling and are worried about what will happen to the value of the dwelling if you talk too much about it. There are major problems in this market. So-called lock prizes make many participate in bidding without real prospects of winning, which pushes the prize upwards. Also, the current system of bidding cannot guarantee enough that there is no cheating in the bidding process. For example, with the current rules, it is possible for a bidder to give a false name to participate in pushing up the price and then withdraw from a bidding. The buyer is not always in such a lovely position. For example, she has a very far-reaching duty of investigation. The general legal awareness and current Swedish law are far from each other on this point, as it is entirely on the buyer to find faults and defects in the dwelling. The realtor's task is simply to inform him of this. It really opens up for unpleasant surprises once the purchase is completed. Neither a seller nor a realtor is responsible. Many also feel that the broker is not impartial in his relationship with the buyer and the seller. It is particularly difficult when it comes to new production and binding pre-contractual agreements when the dwelling is not even built yet. I think that there is reason for the government to review these elements in order to strengthen the buyer's position and to strengthen consumer protection. It is a matter of large sums and a great risk for very many families. With this, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 11.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-435	Mr President, I would like to A prosperous housing market requires a mix of rentals, flats, owner-occupied apartments and villas in different locations and price ranges. It increases choice in housing and can help make an area more attractive. This is particularly important in our suburbs where the range of accommodations today is very one-sided. By this I mean only rental apartments. If you want to own your home, you're forced to leave, and that's not good. I would particularly like to highlight two issues in today's report. Firstly, it is about the right to organise bicycle routes. Today, walking and cycling routes cannot be organised within the framework of the Road Act if they are not connected with public roads. There must therefore be a public road, which in practice means a road. This means that it is more difficult to build walking and cycling paths than ordinary roads. Soil access in the construction of bicycle trails is often hampered by the fact that individual landowners and road associations oppose the opening up of the land to bicycle trails. This means increased costs and reduced user benefits, as long detours have to be drawn. As early as 2002, Lantmäteriet in its report on the Construction Act proposed the introduction of a possibility for municipalities to organise footpaths, cycle paths, hiking trails, snowmobile trails, exercise tracks and similar facilities, and for the municipality to be able to participate in a common facility. The proposals were endorsed by many consultation bodies. It is simply about us being able to exploit Sweden's fantastic nature. That is why we in the Liberals, like the Lantmäteriet, want to introduce an opportunity for municipalities to organise walking and cycling routes, even if it is not connected with public roads. Being able to have walking and cycling paths should be as important as being able to have car paths. Secondly, it concerns the rights of landowners vis-à-vis municipalities. Right of way can now be granted in a leasehold instead of as previously in the property with a leasehold. There is quite a difference: The property is owned by the property owner and the leasehold is owned by the site owner. The legislative changes that have taken place have been necessary – we believe that, and we support them – but they lack sufficient measures regarding today's uneven power relations between property owners and landowners. The land leaseholds that exist in Sweden are almost all leased in properties owned by municipalities, while the landowner is owner-owners, tenant-owners' associations or, in some cases, small businesses. In a case of execution, the municipality, in its capacity as planning authority, with a plan monopoly, often has a community of interests with the developer seeking permission to draw up, for example, a line for strong current, fibre or sewer. The municipality as a property owner may therefore be inclined to satisfy the wishes of the developer and not the tenant-owner's association, the individual land owner, the owner of the house, etc. For this reason, we in the Liberals want to see additional provisions in the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law on the right of way, which allows the rightholders to better assert their interests when they are the owners of a municipality's property. So we are talking about housing rights associations, owners of small houses and others, because we simply want ordinary people to be able to assert their interests towards the municipality better before drawing different leads in their land leases. Mr President, I would like to For time-winning, I only call for the approval of reservation 4 which is alliance-wide, but we are of course behind the two things I was talking about. We are convinced that the reforms of the Liberals will contribute to a more dynamic housing market where fewer people are excluded and more people will feel the sense of freedom and pride in entering their very first home. The lack of housing is not a natural law, but the result of a poor policy. Sweden needs a more liberal housing market with more housing and more market.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-444	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! I would particularly like to welcome the Berzelius School from Linköping, which is sitting here listening to today's debate. The Civil Committee is now going to debate a motion report from the general period of exercise on real estate law. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. The scope of the Committee on Civil Liberties is broad. Property law is an area that we may not often discuss and which we may not all know properly what it contains, but it is an area that has a huge impact both on the public and in many cases also on individual properties and individuals. It is also an extremely important and powerful tool for us to maintain housing construction and have a functioning community development. Therefore, it is crucial that surveying activities work, as Lantmäteriet is one of the foundations for us to have a functioning property law in our country. Many property law issues are linked to Lantmäteriet's operations, which is why it is important that the process is efficient and simple. For many years, surveying has had a high workload, and with the high level of housing construction, that burden has increased. This is something that the government drew early attention to, and that is why we have also implemented a series of measures to make Lantmäteriet's operations more efficient. The Government has commissioned Lantmäteriet to report how it works to attract new employees, how to focus on solving the major challenges that exist in terms of skills supply and, above all, how to work with finding new ways of working where you can perhaps combine different skills and thus solve the challenges that exist within Lantmäteriet's framework and area of activity. The Government has on several occasions commissioned Lantmäteriet to streamline its processing to shorten processing times. As a result, processing times are now falling. A new board with a new chairman has been appointed for Lantmäteriet, and now a new Director General has also taken office. All of this has been done by the government to streamline and deal with the challenges faced by Lantmäteriet as a result of the fact that we currently have a historically high level of housing construction. The Government's ambition has also been to further develop the governance of the agency and short processing times. Therefore, the government has made a number of efforts to digitise Lantmäteriet and Boverket so that large parts of the property mass that exists in Sweden today will become more digital and thus be managed more efficiently and coherently. The Government has given a clear mandate to Boverket to ensure that we get more applicable planning and construction legislation and that it should also be in a digital framework. In addition, Lantmäteriet has been commissioned to carry out a major competence initiative that is about providing the public with knowledge about how this will work, but also to support municipalities and other governmental bodies on how to work digitally in order to streamline the process. By digitising large parts of this business, I think it will also be more effective. I believe that this is one of the most important challenges in terms of maintaining housing in the future. It is also about individuals and the general public being able to obtain legal redress when making changes in real estate or property formation. Mr President, I would like to In my speech, I also thought of focusing on one issue – the issue of individual roads. Individual roads are usually set up as common facilities according to the Construction Act. The decision to create a joint plant is made by Lantmäteriet. Lantmäteriet determines how the costs of road construction and operation are to be allocated among the properties concerned. It also allocates a number of percentages depending on how much operation different shareholders have. The percentages are calculated on the basis of a particular type of property and may be changed by a new survey or by all members agreeing on the distribution of the percentages. Then it is enough with approval from Lantmäteriet. The long processing times we can now see at Lantmäteriet are due in many ways to what I have talked about before, i.e. that there is a lot going on in society at the moment. That's why Lantmäteriet has fallen behind. This, of course, is not something that should be accepted, but we need to come down in processing times. We must not end up in a system where individuals or a larger group of individuals are caught up because the state is unable to deal with individual issues. What we are discussing here has concerned whether or not to amend the proposal and the way in which the road consensuals work. The National Association of Individual Roads has presented a proposal and sent a letter to the Government highlighting a solution. I think it is good and important to highlight the issue. Above all, it is good that constructive proposals have been made on how to look at and solve the challenges ahead. At the same time, I think it is necessary to be a little humble and to state that the issue is extremely complex. Where there is a great deal of disagreement, it is difficult to resolve the matter. One should be aware that we need to create a legally secure system. It cannot be the case that minorities or individual property owners should be squeezed because of having an effective system. Legal certainty must come first in a country like Sweden. Today, the associations where there is quite a lot of disagreement and where it is all complex are also those for which there are long processing times. In these cases, I believe that the proposal put forward will have exactly the same effect. I think you would have to pick up consultants, and I think you would have to go through a rather complicated process. However, I think that a lot of what exists in the National Association of Individual Roads can be good and that it can be a starting point for further work. I think that should be the starting point.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-463	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Johan Löfstrand, for your post! I think it is very good that we agree that we should have legal certainty in Sweden. We have heard the Left Party this morning here. The Left Party wants state-owned construction companies; it wants to nationalise parts of the construction sector. In the last post we heard how the Left Party wants to reduce property rights in Sweden. It is a property right that is one of the fundamental rights and freedoms of government. It is also protected in an additional protocol to the ECHR. Each person's property is secured by the fact that no one can be forced to surrender his property to the public or to any individual by expropriation or any other such procedure. In Sweden, landowners have a surprisingly weak ownership position. Forced resolution can be done against the will of the landowner. Today, it may be enough for a private individual or a company to request a so-called surveying operation. So we have very weak property protection, and I perceive that there are forces in this Parliament that want to make it even worse by giving municipalities the power to buy land in principle rather cheaply. I would like to know what the Social Democrats view this. Do the Social Democrats believe that the market economy is good and that that is what will make us build more? Should we have strong ownership protection in Sweden? Or is it the Left Party line on which the Social Democrats want to wander? I understood, however, that you said no to state construction companies and to nationalise the construction sector, and I think that is a good thing. But do you want to stand firm and even improve the protection of property rights in Sweden, or do you want to join the Left Party and weaken it? It would be good to get your point of view on this.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-467	Mr President, I would like to The debate in the morning has made it clear that there are no nuances in the debate at all, and that is what I find a little sad. I also do not think that Sweden would benefit from any state-owned construction companies. But I also don't think that Sweden would feel good if you weren't allowed to expropriate land at all. I would like to put a counter-question to Lars Beckman: Does Lars Beckman mean that the Moderate Coalition Party or the New Moderates believe that no land should be expropriated by the state? Is that so?
i-16549c8b2ba66885-470	I believe that if we are to be able to have healthy social development in this country, it must be the state and the municipalities that, with the planned monopoly they have, are largely responsible for developing the social apparatus. And then the general must sometimes be allowed to take precedence over the individual. We have quite recently amended the legislation on expropriation so that the owner of property now receives a significantly higher remuneration than was previously received. We fully agree on this change. At the same time, one should be aware that this has also made it very expensive for many municipalities today if they are to acquire land. Although the land is not expropriated, municipalities are expected to pay 125 per cent of the market value. Otherwise the owners will not sell, but they will demand that the land be expropriated. I think it's not quite as black or white as Lars Beckman wants to express it as. It is a question of finding a balance. I therefore believe that we need an expropriation legislation that provides clear protection for the individual. I believe ownership is important. At the same time, however, we must have an expropriation legislation that creates the opportunity for society to develop for the good of the general good.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-473	Mr President, I would like to There is of course a big difference between the fact that society needs to build a dam, a railway or power lines in Sweden and that the municipalities want to build residential buildings on an individual's land. These are the signals that come mainly from the Left Party. There is no doubt that there are important social functions. As far as Lantmäteriet is concerned, we heard a long list of things, and it is of course a good thing that things are moving in the right direction. But it is a little surprising that the Social Democrats do not support the Alliance in the concrete simplifications of the rules on participation in road transport. This is a concrete measure that would relieve Lantmäteriet. Of course, we should also have legal protection there so that you, as an individual, can appeal and, as far as I have read and understood, there is such a proposal. This is causing a lot of trouble, not just in our big cities. I mentioned an example in my speech where the moderate chairman of the municipal board, Lars Molin, highlighted Lantmäteriet's processing times as a real problem for the municipality. It is a real problem for investments, jobs and entrepreneurship in Ljusdal. And I don't think Ljusdal is unique, but I think the problem is around Sweden in many municipalities. Unfortunately, your government rejected the request from the seven municipalities in Gävleborg and Dalarna, among others, who wanted to start a municipal surveying exercise in order to solve the acute problems that the municipality has. Now they are completely in the hands of the long processing times. You are completely in the hands of this, which means that you cannot develop your own municipality because the business does not really work. Then, of course, the government should have granted Ljusdal municipality, Malung and others an exemption in order to be able to control their own social development in their own municipality. It would be interesting to hear the views of the Social Democrats on this. Why do they not want to give municipalities better tools to solve their problems?
i-16549c8b2ba66885-478	Mr President, I would like to I'd like to get back to the last line shift. Lars Beckman does not think that one should be able to expropriate land when building housing. The Liberals wanted us to give footpaths and cycle paths a much larger part in the planning of society, so the Alliance will have to talk a little bit together if you are going to steer after the elections. The average processing time of surveying activities has decreased from 47 weeks to 40 weeks. This is a start. But it has to be much faster, because 40 weeks is far too long. Finally, there is Lars Beckman's third question on Rev's proposal on how to simplify the system of joint ventures. The proposal that has come to the government from Rev is interesting and exciting, but one cannot say that it is simple. And it is clear that it is in the details that the problems lie. First of all, it is difficult to define how to deal with the legal certainty aspects of the proposal. The second observation is that there is no description whatsoever of how the test to be carried out, so-called formal examination, should be created. At least I note that in cases where everyone agrees, this can already be dealt with through a formal handshake, and then Lantmäteriet makes decisions. If it's a complex matter, it'll take a long time. Formalia, which should be simple, I do not think it will be very easy if it is a complex matter, but it will cost many consulting hours. The proposal is a good starting point, but it needs to be revised and investigated much more.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-483	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Mr Johan for his speech. I am seriously concerned that the Moderates do not seem to think that housing construction is a public interest. This is very worrying, and then the adults in the room have to steer it up. The legislation on expropriation that changed eight years ago is absurd. I would like to ask Johan Löfstrand if he really supports it. All civilized modern countries have tried to dampen soil speculation. This is basically about buying and selling land in a way that drives up house prices. Therefore, we have had systems to dampen this, so that people with a lot of money should not just buy up land and try to drive up prices. How does Johan Löfstrand view this in relation to the expropriation allowance? Tän't he ever change it? In Sweden you get a huge excess price when you voluntarily negotiate land purchase, and that is why the municipalities cannot buy land today. Johan Löfstrand's own party has a Congress decision to reintroduce the Pre-Buy Act, and today at 2.30 p.m. 16.00 there will be a chance to vote to reinstate this law. The basic requirement must be to follow the strong desire of the members. Isn't it true, Johan Löfstrand, that tonight the Social Democrats will vote in favour of the reservation to reintroduce the Pre-Purchase Act, which will facilitate the purchase of land by municipalities?
i-16549c8b2ba66885-487	Mr President, I would like to As I said, if the climate of debate has been high and low, this will continue even when Nooshi Dadgostar has his line round, but I will try to answer the two questions I have been asked. I agree with Mr Nooshi that in some respects the expropriation allowance may be problematic. I and my party still stand by the bill and the proposals that lie ahead, but I am well aware that the reality has changed considerably since the change took place and that municipalities today are forced to expropriate land because sellers of land realise that they are getting much better paid by forcing expropriation than by selling. They make sure to absorb the extra 25% when, in fact, they would like to sell the land. I am well aware of the challenges, and I believe that this is one of the issues that we need to start thinking about how to deal with the future. As Mr Nooshi points out, the land issue is one of the major challenges, especially if we are to build cheap housing. Some municipalities have the great advantage of owning a lot of land, which makes it easy to both plan land and develop housing. But in those municipalities where you do not own the land, this issue is huge, and there is a link to the proposal on pre-purchase law. Our Party Congress has said that we want to reintroduce the Pre-Buy Act. However, we can see that it is not so simple and that the reality has changed considerably since the Pre-Purchase Act was removed. We on our side are looking at the possibility of bringing these issues together in a certain respect. I believe that we in the government, but also in general, would need to have a discussion on how to use soil policy and soil as a resource better. I believe that we need to take a concerted approach to this.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-492	Mr President, I would like to I will simplify this a lot for Johan Löfstrand. There is a reservation that can be voted for this afternoon and which means that the government will start an investigation into the issue of introducing a pre-purchase law. For my part, we are also welcome to investigate the issue of expropriation compensation, which is unique to Sweden and which in an unusual way drives up prices on land. As Johan Löfstrand mentioned, some municipalities own a lot of land and can thus ensure that many homes are built. Then you have a completely different control over housing construction. But the fact is that in those municipalities where it is almost only private property owners, it is difficult to hold the municipal politicians to account. It will be difficult to get to housing construction, especially if you have the bad luck of living in a municipality where it is bourgeois parties and right-wing parties that govern and who do not believe that housing construction is a public interest. I would like to ask Johan Löfstrand once again: if you think, as we and your Congress have stated, that one of the most important requirements for the start of housing construction is to reintroduce pre-purchase law and to overcome in part the cost and the difficulty of land access, would it not be appropriate to vote in favour of such a reservation? We know that there is a wide range of Social Democratic Members of Parliament who have themselves exercised to reintroduce the Pre-Purchase Act. I cannot imagine for my life that these individuals would vote against their own motion. Is that how it will be, Johan Löfstrand? I certainly hope not.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-496	Mr President, I would like to Nooshi Dadgostar is well aware of how the Riksdag works. Over the last few weeks, we have seen how we are dealing with placard politics. There are parties in this House who are more concerned with placard politics than the Left Party has done, so I am pleased if the Left Party continues to adopt a pragmatic approach to how this House works. I'd be glad if more parties had that entrance. Basically, we will not support this, because work is currently under way in the government on these issues, where it focuses on the land issue. This must be dealt with in a much broader context than just lifting the pre-purchase law. It is in such a conversation that we can start from reality and different challenges. I believe that in many respects we share a fundamental view of the problems that exist, and I hope that more people in this House will see the problem of expropriation compensation. There I think we have the basis for moving on. Then I think there are other tools. I argue that one of the tools we need to discuss is how society can demand that municipalities take greater responsibility for housing construction. Today, there are not enough whips and carrots to ensure that municipalities assume their housing responsibilities, plan land and build housing so that all citizens of that country have a place to live. This responsibility must be made clear, and it is also an area in which the government is working. Finally, it is an excellent tip for the National Audit Office to examine and look at the issue of expropriation in general, because we can clearly see how soil policy and the cost of land are associated with expropriation. I am not saying that you should change it, but you definitely need to analyse what the consequences have been.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-501	Mr President, I would like to Today, therefore, we are debating property law rules relating to the use, purchase and ownership of immovable property. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report and therefore rejecting all motions. These include renting, land lease, the right to organise bicycle routes and participations in road transport. In the past, we have heard several of my colleagues in the committee describe the challenges we face in the area of property law, and I can agree with many of these descriptions. I would like to talk about road-society associations and the challenges that I see in the future with this form of joint responsibility. In a future where people will live in new ways and under new conditions, an adapted and modernised regulatory framework is needed. There are examples where the law is incapable of facilitating or guiding common ways. I have an example from reality. This applies to a small road outside a larger society and a road consensual association with 42 households. For many years now, the association has been engaged in disagreements about how the road will change. These are some older people with plenty of time and with a great commitment and a passion for the association. The association is led by a former civil engineering manager who with great knowledge has initiated a surveying ceremony to broaden the road. Conflicts, appeals and several years of fighting have now ended with a bill of several hundred thousand crowns for the service. Along the way, it has moved in a number of families with young children. They have moved there because they want to live outside the city's pulse and live their lives in the country. They are now forced to move because of these costs. Lots of money has been spent changing the path, and you still haven't reached the end of the road for how to do it. I know there are more similar examples, and that is a great challenge. Today's people's time, willingness and commitment, the desire to get involved in the sports association as well as road communities, road and sewage associations and other types of associations have been drastically reduced. This can also be seen in the Board work and processes of road cooperation. With this, I would like to say that the challenges of road-consistency associations and their rules are many more than just how the percentages are determined.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-509	Mr President, I would like to I have a colleague who usually talks about poop sandwiches. I do not know if that word is defined in the Swedish Academy's glossary, and you may not want to consult it on such matters these days. I think most of us can intuitively sense that a poop sandwich is something rather unappetite that is served when you least expect it and that someone unfortunately has to put their teeth in. Surprisingly often it seems that we in the KU get sandwiches like this on our table, preferably during the summer break when everyone is scattered wind by wave and the journalists have managed to demand someone under our supervision who has really shit in the blue cabinet. If last summer's poop sandwich was the IT breakdown and the IT scandal at the Swedish Transport Agency, it was in the summer before it was definitely the accident at the Swedish National Audit Office. Not everyone really remembers what happened, but I do. I and some with me have had to chew on this for nearly two years. But for those of you who fortunately have not been able to do the same, it was revealed during the summer of 2016 that the national auditors elected by the Riksdag had not acted quite professionally at all times. Among other things, they had interfered in cases where they could be judged to be fucked up. Services had been promised to friends. Politically marked audits and some other inappropriate ones had been carried out. It was a real splendor scandal – or call it a poo sandwich – that flared up and flew straight into the plow at us in the KU. It was just to cut in and see what one could do with this rather distasteful establishment. However, it turned out not to be very much. Such a thing had never happened before, and the legislator does not seem to have foreseen that something similar could happen, that the entire institution of the National Audit Office was swinging them. So when we went through the regulations in the KU it turned out that there were hardly any tools for us to be able to act. Even less, there were some tools for dismissing a national auditor who has obviously acted inappropriately. The only thing that was available was an erroneously translated French formulation from the European Central Bank system with contradictory meaning of serious negligence – how, at the same time, something that is negligible can be serious. There we were a little bit of a bit of a handshake and there was nothing we could do. Of course, it didn't look so good to the KU either. But what do you do as a politician if you want to show some action while you don't really know what to do? Well, then you just set up an investigation. Said and done, an investigation was set up. Then I thought that one should finally get some order on the croft by giving both the KU and the Riksdag effective measures to take so that one can de-polletate a national accountant who has clearly misbehaved himself. Of course, these tools should be clear and legally secure and specify what applies, but it should also be clear that the Swedish National Audit Office, which is an authority under the Riksdag, is not an independent island that can act in any case without any consequences. But judge my surprise, Mr President, when the investigation came to a conclusion that not only would the paralysing locomotive be maintained, but that it would be even more difficult for Parliament to depose such a seriously neglected national auditor by imposing qualified majority voting in this House. Instead of making things clearer, simpler and better, they simply wanted to make things worse, more difficult and at least as unclear as before. So the majority of the KU has moved on to propose that the House should approve. The Swedish democrats have, of course, reserved for this both during the investigation and during the committee committee. Instead, our proposal has been a process as much as possible similar to that of the appointment of new national auditors, but on the contrary, in order to reverse the process. It is, after all, a fairly long process of appointing a national auditor. First, there are some formal eligibility requirements that need to be met in order to be selected. Afterwards, a fine piece of work takes place to select suitable candidates and assess their merits. Here, of course, you can also use external experts who can review the candidates' quality. Finally, it falls to the KU to try to reach agreement as far as possible on a name to propose to the House which the House can choose by ordinary simple majority. We therefore believe that it would have been reasonable to have a system with a number of clearly defined criteria for the separation of a national auditor from his mandate. Should such a situation arise, an equally delicate investigation may be carried out to establish the facts. There, for example, the Parliamentary Ombudsmen could help to clarify what has actually happened. It is up to the KU once again to try to reach agreement as far as possible on proposing to the House how to act on these issues. After that, the House can take decisions in the same way as it did when it appointed the national auditor, that is to say, with a simple majority decision. So this process was our proposal. So, as clearly and logically as it may seem, the majority of the committee wants to be different. It seems to prefer ambiguity and paralysis. Why is this the case, they actually have to account for themselves. As far as I am concerned, I am content to support our reservations 3 and 4 in the KU report 15.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-525	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish National Audit Office is one of Sweden's most important authorities. The Swedish National Audit Office, on behalf of the Riksdag, is responsible for reviewing the financial and other administration of all the central government authorities, and the so-called efficiency audit to examine whether state activities meet the objectives and objectives of the respective activities. In addition, the Swedish National Audit Office carries out important international work. In the summer of 2016, the media reported various shortcomings and imperfections related to the three then national auditors. Gradually, the three national auditors also resigned. These events were the prelude to a great deal of work. In autumn 2016, the Constitutional Committee devoted a great deal of time and effort to the recruitment of the three new national auditors who were subsequently elected by the House and took up their duties in early 2017. In the autumn of 2016, the Constitutional Committee also initiated an investigation that would carry out a comprehensive review of various issues concerning the Riksrevision. Some of the issues had been raised by media reporting, while other issues had to be investigated sooner or later in all circumstances. The investigation worked intensively during 2017. It was tasked with presenting an interim report in spring 2017, where any draft constitutional amendments would be tabled. These are the proposals that we are debating here today. The final report of the report was presented in February 2018, which addresses a number of further issues. This report is currently being prepared by the Riksdag Board, and a petition with legislative proposals can be expected this autumn. The Swedish National Audit Office is part of the parliament's control power, and the basic regulation of the Swedish National Audit Office is therefore contained in the 13th chapter of the government form. together with the provisions concerning, inter alia, KU's review and JO. In addition, the Swedish National Audit Office is regulated in the Parliamentary Order and in ordinary law. One of the tasks of the 2017 national audit investigation was to evaluate the model of three national auditors and consider the advantages and disadvantages of the current regime. On the other hand, the assignment did not include the submission of legislative proposals for a change in the number of national auditors. In the final report, the study concluded that there are significant problems with the current form of management and recommended that it be changed. In good time before the end of the term of office of the current national auditors, a new investigation should therefore be set up with the task of proposing a new management model. Currently, the number of auditors is regulated in the government form, and it states that the National Audit Office is led by three auditors. In order to make it easier to change the number of auditors in the future, the 2017 national audit investigation proposed in its interim report that the number of auditors should no longer be stated in the government form but in the parliamentary order. In this way, the number of auditors can be changed by a decision and not, as is the case today, by two decisions with intermediate parliamentary elections. This is one of the proposals that is on the table today. It is wise and reasonable to give the Riksdag the opportunity, after a new investigation, to take a position on the number of auditors by a single decision. Another important issue for the investigation was whether the conditions for separating a national auditor from the mission should change. In connection with the turbulence in 2016, the question was raised as to whether one or more of the auditors should be dismissed – removed – by the Riksdag. It may be done in accordance with the form of government if a national auditor is guilty of so-called serious negligence, a concept derived from the rules of EU law concerning governors of central banks. However, there proved to be very limited pre-employment statements about what is meant by serious negligence, and there is also no regulation on how an investigation is to be conducted in case a national auditor is guilty of serious misconduct. The only thing stated is that the matter should be examined by the KU and then by the House. The investigation concluded that the concept of serious neglect is not accurate, since, for example, the word abstinence really means that one thing is not so serious. Nevertheless, the investigation chose not to propose any amendment, among other things because the term was considered to have been established in the Swedish constitution and since the term is used in the provision on the Executive Board of the Riksbank, and it is an advantage if the same concept is used in the regulation of two of the three major parliamentary authorities. Instead, the investigation discussed in some detail what could constitute serious negligence in order to provide guidance for future enforcement. The investigation found, inter alia, that serious mismanagement by the Authority in financial or administrative terms may constitute serious negligence. The management task can also be ignored in other ways, for example by a national auditor acting in such a way that it seriously damages the trust of the employees required for the task of head of the authority to be carried out. In the case of crime on the basis of resignation, the investigation shall in particular concern acts or omissions within the framework of the mission. Other crime becomes relevant if it leads to a lack of trust in the National Auditor or the National Audit Office as an authority. Ultimately, however, it is always the Riksdag that decides whether a particular act or omission can be regarded as such a serious breach of the task that it is to be regarded as a serious omission. There is therefore no proposal for any change in the form of government in the concept of serious neglect. On the other hand, it is proposed that the Ombudsman be given the task of the KU to carry out an investigation, which the KU may then have as a basis for assessing whether the KU considers that a national auditor has been guilty of serious misconduct. It is a practical change that gives the KU a concrete tool to use if a national auditor's actions are called into question. In addition, it is proposed that it should no longer be sufficient with a simple majority in the Riksdag to separate a national auditor from the assignment. Instead, the form of government shall stipulate that at least three quarters of the voters and more than half of the members must agree on a decision to separate a national auditor from the mandate. It can therefore be said that there is a sort of balance between, on the one hand, the measures I have mentioned, which gives greater clarity as to when a national auditor can be removed and better tools to investigate whether a national auditor has been guilty of serious negligence, and, on the other hand, a measure which makes it more difficult for the parliament to dismiss a national auditor. With today's rules, criticism by a national auditor against a government with sufficient parliamentary support could lead to the government parties being able to dismiss the national auditor alone. That would be very inappropriate, and we want to reduce the risk of this happening in this way. This strengthens the protection of the independence of the national auditors as regards scrutiny. Finally, in this case, the provision on the obligation to cooperate and to provide information for those examined by the Swedish National Audit Office is discussed. The provision is currently contained in Section 6 of the Audit Act. Government authorities shall, upon request, provide the National Audit Office with the assistance and information that the National Audit Office needs for its review. As far as the JO is concerned, there is a corresponding provision for an obligation on the part of the reviewer to provide information directly in the form of government. The possibility for the Swedish National Audit Office to have access to the information needed for the audit is of crucial importance for the ability to carry out the audit, and rules on this concern the Swedish National Audit Office's fundamental ability to operate. A constitutional regulation should therefore also be introduced for the Swedish National Audit Office. The provision on interoperability and duty obligations should therefore be moved from the Audit Act to the Government form. Mr President, I would like to Together with these changes, we give the Riksdag a better opportunity to review the administrative structure of the Swedish National Audit Office and to deal with questions of dismissal of auditors at the same time as strengthening the constitutional protection of the independence of the auditors in relation to the audit, as well as the right of the Swedish Audit Office to receive information as part of its audit. These are significant changes for the Riksdag as head of the National Audit Office and for the National Audit Office in carrying out such important tasks for the whole of society. With this, Mr President, I support the proposal in the report.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-540	Mr President, I would like to Andreas Norlén and I have both been in the investigation and agreed on some things that we think are good. This involves, among other things, clarifying the obligation for the audited institutions to be the National Audit Office helpful. We are also introducing the possibility of requesting the JO to conduct a proper investigation, which reduces the risk of acting prematurely in the situations that arise. However, I have two questions. Andreas Norlén is an experienced lawyer and KU-chairman. The order in which we retain a concept in the Constitution that is obviously inappropriate, unclear and actually presupposes that the person who will apply it should go back to the pre-work and read in and try to interpret what is meant, is it a system that Andreas Norlén is satisfied with? Or does Andreas Norlén think that it would have been preferable for the legislative text to contain from the outset any objective criteria that would apply if a national auditor were to be separated from his duties?
i-16549c8b2ba66885-543	Madam President, I would like This discussion is based on the concept of serious neglect. As I mentioned in my speech, this was only included in the Swedish Constitution in terms of ensuring the independence of the Governor and the other Board of Governors. An objective criterion was sought for the separation of such a person from his/her mandate, and the wording used in EU regulation on central banks was chosen. Unfortunately, at that time, a little over 20 years ago, the provision was translated in a way that does not seem optimal. The translation was chosen, for example, when it would have been better to say, for example, serious mismanagement or serious mismanagement. It would have corresponded better with the original texts. The question then is: should we change the expression and choose another expression in the regulation of the national auditors in this legislative matter? My assessment is that the investigation and the majority of the Constitutional Committee have landed correctly when they say that, unfortunately, we must retain the concept. After all, it has been established in the Constitution because it has been there for some twenty years, and it would have strange effects if one concept were used in relation to the auditors and another in relation to the Board of Governors in relation to the same kind of maladministration. It is difficult to justify a legislative technique in which different terms are used for the same concept in the Constitution. I therefore maintain that it is a good balance.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-546	Madam President, I would like If I understand Andreas Norlén correctly, he therefore means that if a mistake has crept into the Swedish constitution, it is better to stick to it than to start changing and try to correct it in the various places as it goes. It stands for Andreas Norlén. We can agree that it is important to ensure the independence and independence of the Swedish National Audit Office. I do not understand, however, that this is what has been called into question. I have not understood that it has been a real problem to date. Even with the previous legislation, the national auditors have been able to act independently and independently. On the other hand, we have had a concrete problem when it has been discovered that the national auditors have acted in a way that is not consistent with what we might consider to be their mission. Then my question to Andreas Norlén will be: Do you think that the Parliament's ability as principal to demand the responsibilities of the national auditors will be improved with the changes that are now being proposed, or is it made more difficult?
i-16549c8b2ba66885-549	Madam President, I would like The short answer to the question is yes. Parliament's and the Constitutional Committee's ability to follow up and demand responsibility is improved by the changes proposed here. Statements from the inquiry that the Constitutional Committee agrees with will make it clearer how to reason on the concept of serious neglect and what it means. There are examples, as I mentioned in my speech, of how errors and omissions can be committed in terms of governance. It may also involve committing crimes in or outside the service. There are also other examples mentioned, precisely in order to create a broader understanding of what the concept of serious negligence could be about in a specific case. There is also something we obviously agree on, namely the possibility for the Justitie ombudsman to assist the KU in investigating the facts which may subsequently be added as a basis for a position on whether or not a serious omission has taken place. In practical terms, this is an important addition to the toolbox of the KU and the Riksdag. Part of the problem when this issue landed at KU's table in the summer of 2016 was how to go about it practically to clarify what the various national auditors have done and how it should be valued. Had we then had that opportunity, it is clear that we would have chosen to turn to the JO and asked the JO to conduct a thorough investigation and then return to the KU. Now there was a slightly different development, where the national auditors themselves hired a former JO to conduct an investigation of about this kind. It provided an important basis for the continued process. I would therefore like to think that these are important tools and additions to Parliament's and the KU's ability to act against the national auditors.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-553	Madam President, I would like Andreas Norlén has, in an exemplary way, gone through the investigation and the developments behind the proposal we have today to take a position on. I will therefore be quite brief. The Swedish National Audit Office suffered from extensive internal problems in 2016. In view of this, the Parliamentary Committee has turned and turned over various issues. We have then landed in – in addition to what is being discussed today, there will also be other things later – that some things need to be laid down in the Constitution. These are the proposals we are discussing today. The first question concerns the number of national auditors. There are reasons why it might be easier to have just one national accountant. On the other hand, there will then be a very large concentration of power in an important institution where there may be a need for more balance and consideration, and for that very reason it may be important to have a number of national auditors. The investigation has not finally landed in what is best. In that situation, we say: If you are going to make a change, you should investigate it again, but there should be no need for a constitutional change. It is therefore proposed that these provisions be moved to the parliamentary order. I think this is an excellent proposal, but, as I said, I am a little bit concerned about the appropriateness of having only one national auditor. There may be other models that are preferable. We saw in connection with the scandal that there were problems with how to separate a national auditor from the mission, how to investigate and other things. The clarification of how a process should be conducted, with the JO as an investigator, where the KU takes the initiative and where a qualified majority in this House is required to separate a national auditor from the mission, seems to me to be a well-balanced proposal. I think it is important that we establish that there should be a qualified majority, so that not a majority with a rather narrow vote can distinguish a national auditor who has made some uncomfortable observations in the state apparatus from the mission. The Swedish National Audit Office is important and central to maintaining the legitimacy of democracy and the use of tax money. I believe that it would be a serious threat to the legitimacy of democracy if such a thing were to happen. We have seen international developments in several states where, unfortunately, democratic institutions have weakened – independent judiciary and others. That is why I think it is very important to provide adequate protection for such institutions. Another way to strengthen the Swedish National Audit Office is to provide the Swedish National Audit Office with constitutional support in order to take in the material you need to be able to do things in the form of investigation of activities and such things. This constitutional support means that the Swedish National Audit Office now has a stronger position. In conclusion, I believe that these proposals allow taxpayers to feel a little more confident that an important institution to maintain the legitimacy of the state and the public's use of funds can be maintained. I support the KU's proposal.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-563	Madam President, I would like Former speakers and perhaps in particular Andreas Norlén, our President, have very well described what the KU15 is all about. This is the first step in a major change in the Swedish National Audit Office. These are the parts which relate precisely to the constitutional amendments, which the investigation first put into a partial report. After the problems in the Swedish National Audit Office were revealed, the KU has been a very active party in developing and implementing a more extensive recruitment process of the new auditors. We have also provided support to the Riksdag Board in producing guidelines for the investigation that forms the basis for today's decision. As we have heard here, several members of the KU, including me, have participated in the investigation itself, which has been led by Mats Melin. The KU has really been active in much of the work that will lead to a major review of the Swedish National Audit Office. The investigation submitted its first report on constitutional issues on last May last year. Then there has also been a final report. There will therefore be more proposals for changes in the future. The investigator and the parliamentary committee have largely agreed on most things. One of the major elements under discussion today is the three-part leadership, where we have seen great advantages and disadvantages. In any case, there is much to suggest that it should be easier for the Riksdag to change the number. That is a large and important part that we are proposing today. The investigation has also made it clear how to look at the concept of serious negligence and that the JO can conduct an investigation for the KU. Then I'm horrified when I listen to Fredrik Eriksson. The whole idea of the Swedish National Audit Office is to have an independent national audit in which the national auditors themselves should have a strong mandate to deliver criticism that may not always be so positive for politicians and the big broad political elite, or what to say, and perhaps not especially for the government parties. The national auditors should be able to do this without having to risk being deposed by the political system. I therefore see it as a step forward that a qualified majority should be required to dismiss a national auditor. We see, as Hans Ekström has done before, how different ways of criticising the political leadership can be questioned in other states. We do not want to see that in Sweden. With this, Madam President, I would like to support the KU's proposal.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-570	Madam President, I would like Just like when I was up here last time, we can note that the Swedish National Audit Office has enjoyed a very large independence and a very great independence throughout its existence. And they have undertaken fairly politically charged audits. Even with the previous system, I cannot recall that it would in some way have been problematic or that someone would have tried to remove some national auditors because they have done politicised audits. Rather, the problem has been the opposite: that they may have gone a little too far into their own interests and that we have not taken our headship seriously. Therefore, I would like to ask Agneta Börjesson : What is the problem, which Agneta Börjesson and the others in the majority here want to solve? For 15 years this has never happened. Here you go! Please explain what is the problem! Why are these additional measures needed?
i-16549c8b2ba66885-572	Madam President, I would like Yes, it has indeed happened that the national auditors have been out in the debate and that there has been quite a lot of trouble with different ministers. If it were easy for the government parties alone, which can sometimes have a majority here in Parliament, to remove an uncomfortable national auditor and if you could do so for purely political reasons, it is a very unfortunate development. That is why we want to do this. Then Fredrik Eriksson points to another important part when it comes to the Swedish National Audit Office, which comes in the next round and which we will debate later. This concerns the government of the Riksdag and the support of the Riksdag to its own authority. We will come back to that and discuss it. The proposal from the investigation is that the Riksdag should have regular seminars and similar events to discuss with the auditors how to prepare their reports and the like and how they can be received in a good way.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-574	Madam President, I would like Just as Agneta Börjesson is concerned, there will be a next step. We may anticipate that discussion a little bit, but there are several different ways to skin a cat. We know that this is being discussed in the next step: how important and relevant is it, and to what extent should the National Audit Office engage in politicised audits at all? There it will be another step in reducing the risk of political questioning. I still wonder what the problem is with this question. To me, this is a construction that addresses a problem that has never appeared and will definitely not appear later.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-576	Madam President, I would like I am not a hundred people that I understand the question, but there has probably been a rather strong criticism from political representatives when it came to national auditors. If there were an opportunity for the government parties to dismiss a national auditor, that would not be a good thing. That is why we are giving this support. When it comes to how the various reports should be made, I think it is extremely important that it is a matter for the Swedish National Audit Office to decide on.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-578	Madam President, I would like The problem of trust that affected the Swedish National Audit Office in the summer of 2016 led, among other things, to the revision of the legislation on the Swedish National Audit Office that has now been implemented and the proposal for constitutional changes that Parliament is today to take a first decision on. The problems within the Swedish National Audit Office in 2016 led to the departure of all three national auditors who were present at the time. We in the preparation delegation of the Constitutional Committee were then given the opportunity to recruit three new national auditors. There were three former Directors-General with good reputation and good leadership skills who took on the task of leading the Swedish National Audit Office. The Swedish National Audit Office is an important community resource during the Riksdag with 300 well-qualified employees who need well-functioning leadership. As a member of the Parliamentary Council of the Swedish National Audit Office, I have the opportunity to follow the work of the three new national auditors. As I see it, they have already made important efforts to restore confidence in the Swedish National Audit Office and its important work to review the accounting and efficiency of the state authorities. The legislative changes now proposed are not so extensive but aim to strengthen the position of the National Auditors and Auditors. We now have three national auditors according to the rules of the government. According to the proposal for a change in the form of government, we shall have one or more auditors, and the number of auditors is stated in the parliamentary order instead. This means that if the Riksdag later finds it better to have only one national auditor, it is possible to implement it without a constitutional amendment. The rules on how the Riksdag can separate a national auditor from its mandate have also been reviewed, as has been shown by the debate here. Madam President, I would like I call for approval of the Constitutional Committee's proposal in the report Review of the Swedish National Audit Office – constitutional issues.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-584	Madam President, I would like When I come as the last speaker in a debate like this, there is not much more to say. I believe that we all, especially after the examination that it meant when Committee 2016/ 17 was working on drafting proposals for new national auditors for this House to vote on, realised the importance of a well-functioning national audit with clear rules. It is about being well equipped with selected national auditors for the welfare and woe of our country and our citizens. It should not in any way be taken as a result of complacency when, on this issue of time, I am making this speech very brief because my colleagues have so well explained the matter and the proposals. They follow in principle a completely unanimous proposal for a parliamentary inquiry, with the exception of a separate opinion from the Left Party, and a committee in principle entirely united, with the exception of reservations from Swedish democrats. I simply agree with the previous speaker and call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report and for the motion to be rejected.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-586	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have a total of four reservations which are dealt with in the report. But for time to gain spirit and efficiency, I will only ask for the approval of reservations 2 and 4. This debate is about local and regional issues, and the committee has dealt with some forty requests for exercise from the general period of exercise. The proposals that have been received have covered everything from the principle of location and municipal cooperation to the conditions for us elected representatives and party support. The committee also proposes an announcement on the role of municipalities in crime prevention. It is an announcement that is also supported by the Swedish Democrats. Exercisers point out that there are widely differing views among municipalities about the responsibility of municipalities to work crime prevention. Nor do municipalities today have a clear responsibility to work with life-style criminaries or repeat offenders and encourage them to change their direction in life despite the fact that it would be largely crime prevention. As municipalities and other local actors play a key role in the prevention of crime, and as this work today is completely different and is carried out with completely different weights in the various municipalities, we, like the committee, believe that the law needs to be clarified so that municipalities are given an explicit task to work crime prevention within their respective areas of responsibility. My committee colleagues will certainly tell us more about this, so, for my part, I will now turn to those parts of the report in which the Swedish Democrats differ and land in conclusions other than the rest of the committee. In a motion by Paula Bieler and Markus Wiechel, both from the Swedish Democrats, it is requested that all parties with representation in a elected assembly should also be represented in its committees, committees and boards. As a former municipal politician, I know from my own experience how difficult it is to participate in municipal and regional politics on equal terms with the other parties, who have been given the right to participate in board and board meetings as well. Today, these seats are set up according to the size of the parties, and that is not fundamentally wrong. On the other hand, it is less good that in many cases parties are not even allowed to attend the meetings. As in the Riksdag, where most of the work is done in our committees, this is done in the municipal or regional councils and boards. The lack of sufficient transparency in these cases leads to a lack of information vis-à-vis the parties that are transparent, and thus also a real reduction in the possibility of influencing or even understanding the full meaning of the matters that are to be decided by the elected representative. The current regime may mean that elected representatives make wrong decisions due to a lack of information and facts. If they had seen the whole picture, they might have made different decisions on those issues. Our reservation is not about legislating that all parties should automatically have voting rights in all municipal committees and boards – it would be for us foreign – but only about the right of parties to attend. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats also propose fairer party support. According to the current and also previous municipal law, the municipal party support must not be designed to favour or disadvantage any individual party. I would like to say, Madam President, that this is all too much, that is to say that parties in the highest or lower degree are just being favoured at the expense of other parties. A typical example is when municipal party support is designed with sharp thresholds where, for example, three mandates do not provide any political resources while four mandates can give the right to both free premises and to employed municipal councillors and political secretaries. That kind of threshold becomes very disproportionate. Although it distinguishes only one or a few mandates between two parties, the political parties with the current system can be allocated completely different levels of resources. Nor is it unusual for the largest parties to seize the highest paid assignments. Since the persons holding such posts are also supposed to devote themselves to the respective party's own affairs, the additional compensations act as indirect party support to the largest parties. The Swedish Democrats therefore want a fairer party support system in which indirect party support in the form of paid posts, political officials and free premises should be counted from the cash party support. The starting point for us is that the number of seats should reflect the number of votes the party has in the council but not necessarily what conditions it has to work politically. That is why we propose fairer party support in which paid services and access to free premises should be deducted from the cash party support. That is also why we propose a right for all elected parties to be transparent in boards and boards. Madam President, I would like Confidence in politicians and politics must, of course, be improved and restored. That's exactly what I think we can all agree in here. On the other hand, on the question of how it should be done, we can differ both between parties and between individual political representatives. Calling each other ugly words or using the derogatory epithet can surely be satisfying for some at the moment when you are anxious to get your point. However, in the long run, we must be able to discuss and debate so that the voters do not perceive everything we do as political pie-throwing. The KU is, as you know, a slightly different committee. It is a committee in which I believe that we can actually negotiate and agree jointly, taking into account the views and views of all parties. Of course, this does not happen in all contexts or on all issues, but nevertheless I believe that we are more sensitive to each other here than in other committees. Hopefully, we can build on the KU tradition and hope that it will pass on to other parts of political society as well. However, it is not only the political debate that causes people to lose confidence in politics, but also a great deal of prejudice and misconception. Usually it's about the image of high fees and brother-in-law politics. Clearly, it is not always easy to explain that most of the country's elected representatives are leisure politicians, but neither high fees nor other unfair benefits. People spend late evenings and weekends reading hundreds of pages of documents and preparing speeches, while always bringing a price from being a private person to becoming a public political representative. Politicians are held accountable to the media more or less daily, and there is almost zero tolerance towards politicians who misbehave in the private sector. Politicians are also held accountable by citizens in general elections. Those who aspire to control the country, the county council or the municipal assembly and have power over other people's lives must, of course, set an example. Expectations of elected politicians should therefore be high, and we elected representatives are therefore subject to extensive scrutiny. Against this background, we question that municipal politicians can choose their own party friends for the review of municipal activities. Madam President, I would like The view of the Swedish democrats is that the current system must be improved so that the risk of mistrust and suspicion towards politicians and the political system is reduced. We believe that a review of the municipal audit should therefore be carried out to this end.
i-Sa9Gd7F7ZUUnm6maLXincL	Madam President, I would like In the motion report on municipal and regional issues, the committee rejects some 40 requests for exercise from the general period of exercise in autumn 2016 and autumn 2017. However, the most important thing in the report is the announcement addressed to the government by the Parliament, as proposed by the Constitutional Committee. It is an announcement about the role of municipalities in crime prevention. An increased and clearer responsibility for the municipalities in terms of crime prevention is an issue that the Centre Party in the Riksdag has long been pursuing through motions by Kerstin Lundgren and me in the Constitutional Committee. I therefore regard it as an important success when the Social Democrats in the Riksdag put forward that the question of the role of municipalities in the prevention of crime, which in the KU has been run by the alliance parties, should now be clarified and regulated by law, in accordance with the announcement. According to the announcement, municipalities should be given an explicit task to work crime prevention within the framework of their responsibilities. The committee notes that there have been, or are, differences of opinion within the local government sector on the extent to which municipalities are responsible for the prevention of crime. The committee states that the prevention of crime needs to be long-term and to be based on the local environment in which the work is carried out. It is with great pleasure that the Center Party looks forward to a clearer responsibility for crime prevention at municipal level. In the report, the Center Party has a reservation on regionalisation. The Center Party believes that Sweden needs a regionalisation process. I participated in such a process in Skåne about 20 years ago. But a prerequisite for its success is that the regions have to take over responsibility and resources from the state, ministries and authorities. Responsibility and resources create opportunities for regionally managed development throughout the country. If the state is not prepared to hand over responsibility and resources, it is hardly interesting to pursue regionalisation and take responsibility politically in the new regions. The Center Party does not believe that these conditions have existed in terms of resources in the regionalisation discussion that has been conducted and in the investigations that have been carried out in recent years.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-610	Madam President, I would like The report on local and regional issues deals with several issues that have been discussed in the past. Some issues have recently been addressed in the report on a new municipal law. Our basic view of major changes in how municipalities and regions are governed, what rights they have and how they should be designed is the same as in constitutional matters, i.e. that they should be resolved in broad majority in compromises between parties. Then all questions need to come up on the table at a time where you can give and take. The basic approach to questions that are of fundamental interest is that they may be correct but that they should be gathered together in an investigation to be decided at the same time. There are also points of view among the movements dealing with regions and regionalisation. There has been a major process recently carried out, which partly failed. I think most parties are a little burned on the issue and want to stay away from such issues for a period of time. There are therefore few questions that we on our part are prepared to support. One thing that has come up and is interesting in principle is the question of how to deal with people who change parties during a term of office. Our party has landed in the basic view that in the directly elected mandates, in parliament, region or council, it is the people who own the mandate and have appointed me as a Member of Parliament or a person in a council assembly. The fact that the parties would then own the mission during their term of office therefore seems strange from the point of view of principle. We therefore clearly reject things relating to people changing sides during a term of office. The parties may not have done their nomination work, or there have been strong tensions in a party, and one might imagine that a party is divided into two roughly equal parts. Should the part with a narrow majority have the right to kick the other half of the party off its missions? No, I don't think so. On the other hand, we believe that it is problematic with the indirectly elected assignments, for example in municipal assemblies, committees and so on. That issue should probably be considered in a future review of the legislation. An issue that we find interesting in this year's exercise flora is addressed in a motion from the Liberals on the role of municipalities in local crime prevention. There were similar movements from other bourgeois parties as well. We think that is an important issue. Everything that can be done to strengthen the crime prevention work locally, we think, is good. In many cases, the municipalities are already working on the issue, and they need legal support to work on it. That is why we support the announcement on local crime prevention. I support the proposal of the Constitutional Committee.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-616	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Mr Ekström for his contribution to the debate. About a year ago we had a similar debate, and Mr Ekström and I debated the issue at the time. At that time, I understood that the attitude represented by Mr Ekström was that a party should not be able to own the political mandates to a different extent than is the case today. Now that I listen to Hans Ekström, I still perceive that there is a certain opening when you talk about the indirectly elected representatives. I welcome that. Hans Ekström is happy to clarify what he wants to change in such cases. Our reservation on the report focuses primarily on the indirectly elected. If Hans Ekström is open to a conversation on these issues, I am happy to join in discussing them.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-618	Madam President, I would like As I said, we think that this type of issue should be dealt with in the same context, for example, in a review of the Local Government Act. That is why I think it is important that we begin to think about what principles we can have right now. I believe that the mandates directly elected should not be called into question, because it will be quite dangerous if the parties are perceived to have greater power than the people in the appointment of a Member of Parliament, a Member of the County Council or a Member of the City Council. For the sake of democracy's legitimacy and also for the sake of the sense of responsibility of Members of Parliament or of other directly elected or elected representatives, I think that this clarity should exist. However, there are obvious problems. Let us imagine that a party in a council elects a person to sit on the municipal council and interpret that party's attitude and that that person then single-handedly jumps off the party while the lion's majority of the members remain in his party. Then, of course, there is a problem, and I think that one should be prepared to think about it.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-621	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Hans, for your statement. I see a certain opening compared to the previous one, and I welcome that. From the Swedish Democrats' side, we want to go a little further, although of course we should investigate this issue together and see where we finally land. But there is a problem that Hans raises when it comes to those who are elected by the people. You're elected by the people when you're on the council, but it's not necessarily the case that you've got a single person cruise. You can sit in the council because the party ballot looked like it did. Then the question is: If not a single municipal citizen – perhaps with the exception of himself – has voted for you, is one to be considered elected? Well, today is the day, isn't it? If you are actually elected by the people, that is, if you really are the people behind the mandate you are sitting on, you are more doubtful in my view. That is why I would also like to look at a solution in which, in the event that someone is not elected by means of person cruises, the parties can have more influence over the political mandate. This also applies, of course, to those who become savages. On the other hand, I think that Mr Hans and I fully agree that if people have been cruised, it goes without saying that the mandate goes to them personally rather than to the political party. But I welcome His change of attitude and look forward to discussions on these issues.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-624	Madam President, I would like I think it is important that the elected mandate is precisely elected. One can discuss which electoral system one should have in order to get it out, but I think it is about quite fundamental elements of democratic governance that everyone who has a mission perceives themselves as elected representatives and that their mandate is of that magnitude. The fact that the parties in someone's playhouse could replace people during the current term of office seems very strange to me from a democratic point of view. I find it difficult to understand how such a system could be maintained. It is also the case that if a party gets a substantial drop-out, it may have to consider what the work of the election committee it has.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-627	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal to be approved. I would like to thank my alliance colleagues very much for having been able so well to work together, to agree and to write the proposal to strengthen local crime prevention which, thanks to this, has led to the announcement that we are deciding on here later today. I would also like to thank my colleagues from the other parties in the Constitutional Committee for having seen the good and wiseness of the proposal and we can therefore agree today that we need to announce this to the government. Thank you very much! People should be able to feel safe in Sweden regardless of gender, age or where in Sweden they live. The only person who might feel insecure is the one who has committed a crime and needs to be afraid of getting caught. Everyone should know that if a crime is committed, the judicial system – the police, prosecutors, courts and prisons – must have all the resources and abilities to frame the person who committed the crime. But most of all, crime should not be committed at all. That is what we need to get better at; that is the crime prevention work we need to get better at in order to really solve the basic problem of people being insecure in Sweden today. That is also what the announcement is about: how we strengthen crime prevention. Every human being ultimately has his own responsibility for his actions. One cannot reduce a criminal act to either growing up or a social environment. But we know that supporting family policy is an important effort to minimise the risk of someone committing crime. We know that the commitment and responsibility of family and friends, from loved ones, works and is fundamental to creating a social safety net for people. We'd better help each other not to commit crimes. Therefore, civil society also plays a major role. What we clearly point to in the announcement is the important role of civil society in strengthening the social protection net around individuals at risk of committing crimes. The police are also, of course, an actor in this, as are the municipalities. That cooperation needs to be even better than it is today. The chain of responsibility, in particular the responsibility of the municipalities, needs to be much clearer than it is now. Perhaps even more important, as we also say in the announcement, is that the powers must be held by all three actors. We cannot clarify and extend the responsibility for the municipalities unless the municipalities also have the power to take the necessary measures. These are the two lines of the announcement, which we will be voting on later today. With this, I would once again like to thank and support the proposal.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-636	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the KU33 Municipal and regional issues. It is a broad motion report dealing with 40 requests for exercise from the general exercise time of the last two years. The KU proposes an announcement to strengthen local crime prevention. I must admit that I was at first a little hesitant about this announcement, not because it's not very important– I really think it's very good– but because the government has started so much work in this area lately. Brå came just a few weeks ago with a report summarizing some of the things that are going on: During the spring, the Government presented the new national crime prevention programme Together against crime. There, the government gives overall objectives and ambitions for the crime prevention work in Sweden. The programme focuses on society's shared responsibility for crime prevention and to include business and civil society in the work. The areas that have been the focus of crime prevention at national level include preventive work in socially vulnerable areas, organised crime and violent extremism. The Police Authority has worked to develop the organisation and conditions for strategic crime prevention work. New authorities and strategies as well as changes in legislation during the year will be important factors for the development of crime prevention. In early 2017, Brå also received a renewed and broadened mandate to support and coordinate national, regional and local crime prevention work. During the year, support and coordination have been built up, and certain conditions for the work have been identified. A web-based basic training has been developed and carried out in four rounds. The new coordinators at the county administrative boards have gathered in four network meetings, and extensive methodological support has been given to 7 socially vulnerable areas and to a further 16 municipalities with different challenges. This is just a brief summary of Mr Brå's very comprehensive report. At the same time, I think it is important to also provide legal support for the local authorities' work on this, something that has been lacking. This is good, and I support it. I would also like to comment on some other issues that have been raised, such as the Center Party's reservation on the regionalisation process. I've been working on the regional issue since I started politics a very long time ago. My experience is that over the last 100 years each term of office there has been a small window to move on. New investigations and delegations have been set up, and there has been strong pressure to move forward on the regional issue. For many years these investigations and all this work went on, and the counties were completely broken at the end. All the preparatory work was done, but the governors closed the shutters and stopped. The last time we felt that it was more political, and we had hoped for greater support from the Center Party on this issue. We have seen that in the past they have pushed the regional issue hard, so it is boring. However, I am absolutely convinced that the issue of the region will come back once more, perhaps not the next parliamentary term, but quite soon. Something will have to be done about this. I would also like to say something very briefly about the issues on which Jonas Millard has been concerned with terms of reference. There are some proposals there that are not really completely incomprehensible. But it is a little incomprehensible to me that you present them here in Parliament. I believe that the municipal mandate support is a matter for municipalities. They have their own budget. I can be a little perplexed if you want to re-schedule the mandate so that it is the Parliament that in some way decides on the municipal budget and puts proposals on this in your budgets. I think it's something you'll have to look at again. With this, Madam President, I would like to support the committee's proposal.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-649	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Agneta Börjesson, for the questions related to our reservation, which concerns party support. This is, of course, regulated to some extent already in the Local Government Act: Party support must not favour or disadvantage a political party. But this is actually happening today – parties are becoming disadvantaged or disadvantaged. I myself have been involved in local politics and have seen the sharp thresholds that may exist. I do not think that Parliament should sit and dictate, for example, what amounts should be paid for a certain number of mandates. It would be very strange to me. However, I would like us to achieve the ambitions that are nevertheless stated by the law today when it comes to no one being favoured or disadvantaged. This is in fact happening today, because it does not count what some parties get in the form of free premises, appointed officials, councillors and so on. This is a problem, and it changes the conditions for political life, especially for small parties, but also for large parties that cannot be part of any form of cooperation with other parties because it is given different positions and paid services. The ambition is simply that it will be fairer and that conditions in municipalities and county councils will become more equal between the political parties. I only regret that the Swedish Democrats are alone on this issue.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-652	Madam President, I would like I interpreted it as meaning that it could change a great deal and in some places be more expensive in the municipality if this were to be done. If it is simply a matter of complying with the legislation and there are places where local parties feel that the legislation is not being complied with, they can actually appeal to the Administrative Court of Appeal. I've done that myself once and got it right, so it's possible. I don't know if I'm gonna tell you, but I can. The law is supposed to work.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-653	Madam President, I would like It is reassuring that we are two KU members who agree that the law should work. On the other hand, my view is that the ambition that exists today is not being properly respected. There are injustices in the present party support system, and it is de facto the case that parties are disadvantaged. This is because of the fact that I highlighted in my first reply, namely that some parties may receive support in the form of, for example, free premises or the employment of political officials. There is no offsetting for this in the cash party support. In addition, very sharp thresholds can be built in, and this has also been tried out in administrative courts in the past. The law is written as it is today, and I think that we should get to grips with this. I do not want us to regulate the details in any way with regard to thresholds and the like. Generally speaking, the Swedish Democrats think that we should reduce party support somewhat, and this is an issue that we have been pushing both here and in our municipalities and county councils. It is an opinion which, unfortunately, has not, at least not what I know, received support from the Green Party in any context. I wish we could have a deeper discussion. I also feel that there are some misunderstandings on the part of the Green Party, but we have every opportunity in the coming time to discuss these issues and see if we can also reach some kind of consensus. I feel that we share the picture of the problem.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-656	Madam President, I would like Nor do I think it would be good to regulate in detail things that the municipalities should do themselves within their own municipality. I think it is extremely important that local self-government and the ability to control their own budget should remain in place. Then it is not at all unlikely that you need to review the mandate support and the municipal law in the future, but the important thing is that there should be no detailed regulation from here in the Riksdag on this matter.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-657	Madam President, I would like In this debate, too, I had intended to be brief because the committee is united in this and in its wisdom has recognised the importance of the role of municipalities in the prevention of crime. The committee has therefore supported, among other things, the Liberals' motion, which has been a favourite in replay for many years and now finally has to make an announcement. In her speech, Ida Drougge highlighted the importance of preventive work and the role of municipalities in it, and this cannot be pointed out enough. I heard a previous speaker quite correctly point out that a great deal has been done, of course. But it can also be said, and we have clearly seen this in other matters, that everyone's joint responsibility easily becomes nobody's responsibility at all. The announcement therefore clarifies that the role of municipalities in this work is extremely important. I thank the government parties for the cooperation we have had. However, Madam President, since the report raises several important issues, I would like to take this opportunity to highlight something that is particularly close to me and to the Liberals. No one will escape the fact that Sweden's municipalities face major challenges, including as a result of demographic change. It is difficult for smaller municipalities to cope with their tasks. We have 290 municipalities from north to south. They vary in size from over 2,400 inhabitants in Bjurholm municipality, I learned the other day, to over 950,000 in Stockholm municipality. All of our lives are followed by the municipal services. We're born and need child care. We go to preschool and school. We're on public transport. We'll be patched up in health centers, and we'll get help in the older days to take care of ourselves. We drink water from the tap, throw the garbage in the barrel and so on. And it is the municipalities that will make sure that all this and more work, so that everyone's everyday life, whether we live in Bjurholm or in Stockholm, works. In general, the activities of municipalities are actually good. Compared to many other service industries, municipalities receive a high rating from us residents according to the satisfaction index that SKI, Svenskt Kvalitetsindex, uses. But many of us here also have experience as a municipal politician and know how many municipalities conjure their knees in order to meet both the legal requirements and the additional demands of our citizens and citizens. Despite the proposal for a general right to municipal contractual cooperation, which the Riksdag is now considering and which will mean that municipalities can transfer activities to other municipalities through a contractual collaboration, we will probably need to do more in this area if we seriously believe that the whole country should live and that one should be able to live well throughout the country. In view of the ongoing municipal inquiry, which is tasked with analysing how municipal compilations and possible other measures can help to strengthen the municipalities' ability to meet the development of society in particular, I agree with the committee that the ongoing investigation work should not be pre-empted and therefore discourages the exercise requests this time in this area. But the Liberals intend to come back on this issue, perhaps mainly at local municipal level, because it is precisely there that one best knows what the citizens of one's own municipality need. I therefore support the proposal in the report.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-665	Madam President, I would like I thank you, valued Constitutional Committee, for allowing me to enter your beautiful room. It is this year 100 years since the club fell into this neighborhood and it was decided that every man and every woman of age would have the right to vote. In 1921 democracy became real when both men and women were allowed to vote. Someone has said that we should be raising statues over Branting and Edén, the leaders of the Social Democrats and the People's Party, who brought this forward. I think you can do that. Branting is in place. But it was the many people who actually, in their longing for human dignity and authority, brought democracy forward. It is for the sake of the many people that democracy must be nurtured, protected and respected. Madam President, I would like In Jönköping we have the Western Square where you can buy textiles, vegetables, eggs and so on. If I go there on a Saturday and buy beetroots and get them in the bag, I don't want them turned into parsnips or potatoes when I get home. If I take the ballot of a party and choose a chosen person, I want him to remain in that party, for it is not the individual beetroot, potato or carrot that I have chosen but the collective. I respect the reasoning of the Constitutional Committee with regard to direct elections. There are some who deserve to be elected, but they are not all granted. However, in the indirect elections, once you are a municipal councillor or chairman, it is unreasonable for a party change to remain in office. This has happened in Jönköping, where members have left a party and formed a new one and remain in heavy positions in new form. I find that unreasonable. Madam President, I would like When you run out to Stadsparksvallen in Jönköping, where football is to be played, you rip off your shirt in joy when you have scored. Then the judge blows his whistle and gives a warning. But if you run into the chamber here in a blue sweater and trade it for a black one overnight, you won't get any reprimand at all. I think it should be a strong whistle signal to this valued Constitutional Committee to address this issue.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-673	Madam President, I would like We are here today to debate the Culture Committee's report on culture and leisure for children and young people. I shall begin by calling for the proposal to be approved in the committee's report. The report deals with a number of issues concerning children and young people. In my speech, I will mainly talk about culture school and the importance of literacy among children and young people. Madam President, I would like Culture and leisure for children and young people is a subject that has been debated extensively recently, and rightly so. There is a reason why the right to culture is included in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is through culture and leisure activities that children and young people can explore their creativity, curiosity and independence. It is when we give children and young people the opportunity to explore their world through culture, music or other leisure activities that we build the foundation for a youth whose sense of place in society is as strong as it can only become. We are building through these young people the society that they will shape in a few years' time. I will never forget the day I was 11 years old and my father came home with a big and clumsy box. In this box was a guitar. He had bought it after I had once said in passing that I wanted to learn to play guitar. Unfortunately, Dad had forgotten to buy a case for the guitar so that I could carry the guitar on my back. So once a week I had to carry this clumsy cardboard to the school of culture. It made me absolutely nothing, because I loved going to guitar lessons. Not only did I learn to play guitar but I also learned to read music. And my guitar teacher Sten also taught me to appreciate different music genres. It was through the cultural school that I and many other children experienced and learned things that we had not otherwise been allowed to do. Thanks to the music, we also met children who did not attend the same school because we lived in segregation. Our worlds were different, but we could jointly look at each other and sky with our eyes when Sten chose another rock classic for us to play on the guitar. I am therefore pleased with the government's historic commitment to cultural policy. We have, among other things, set up a national cultural school centre to highlight the importance of the cultural school and to increase the quality of the music and culture school. It upsets me that there are still children who, because of class differences, do not get the opportunity to take part in music, sports and culture. We're missing so many children's potential. The government's continued efforts to keep the fees down in the cultural school are therefore particularly important. Madam President, I would like I'm going to continue with the story of Amne, eleven years old. There wasn't always much to do at school when you were in middle school. The school that I went to was the fall, even of crappy, and large parts were under renovation. But there was a room at school that had escaped the scribbles on the benches, the chewing gum under the chairs, and the snuffers on the ceiling, and it was the school library. For me, that room was magical. My school library was kept under the strict supervision of the librarian Jeanette. She was angry with me once when I accidentally turned her in, but it never deterred me from going in there. It's a cliché, but every time I opened a book, it was like stepping into a new world. Today, I am very good at quizzes, and I firmly claim that this is a remnant from the time in middle school when I read two to three books a week. The books opened up completely new possibilities for me, and I learned things that I still use today. Libraries are one of our most important social institutions. It is an open democratic space where we can freely borrow books and learn to be source critical in a world where source criticism is becoming scarce. The government has therefore, during this term of office, made major efforts to increase the availability and supply of libraries. We understand that libraries are an important meeting place and that access to them is ultimately a question of democracy and equality. We know today that reading ability and access to languages are of great importance to the development of children at an early age. We also know that children with little habit of reading at home tend to opt out of reading for the benefit of other activities – and that it affects school results. We have a major challenge when it comes to bridging the knowledge gaps in reading comprehension that can be seen in the PISA measurements. The research shows that parents' educational background and socio-economic status affect children's learning outcomes. But one point in this is that research also shows that students' reading habits and motivation for reading are more important to study results than parents' background. This means that if we can arouse interest in reading at an early age, we will also be able to bridge this knowledge gap. The government will therefore continue to invest in reading promotion initiatives for children and young people, especially for children of pre-school age. Preschools play an important role in encouraging children's curiosity and creating interest in reading. However, kindergartens today do not have access to libraries in the same way as schools do. Therefore, the government provides money so that all Swedish preschools can buy books and start small libraries at preschool. In this way, we can give preschools the opportunity to build the foundations for children's study careers and as early as possible to overcome the gaps in study results that arise as a result of parents' study background. Every child in Swedish preschool must have equal opportunities to read and listen to books. Not all children will think that the libraries and the cultural school are the best there is, as I did when I was little. It is natural that we have different interests, but every child must have the opportunity to find his or her interest. It is an active government strategy to give all children and young people that opportunity. The report we are debating today deals with many good motions on how to improve the everyday lives of our children and young people and how to ensure their right to culture and leisure. The spirit of the motions is good, but we believe that the government is already doing what is stated in most of them. We have a clear children's and young people's perspective in our efforts, and we are actively working to give all children and young people equal access to culture and leisure time. Finally, I would like to say that it is crucial that we work to create a society in which children and young people do not have to live in fear of being married away, where children and young people should not be exposed to threats and hatred online and where children and young people should have a safe and secure schooling. This means that we need to create a safe environment where children and young people can thrive – a society where children are simply allowed to be children.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-689	Madam President, I would like There are a number of reservations about the KrU6 report, which we are now debating. We support all the reservations that are moderated, but I only ask for the approval of reservation No 2. I understood from Amne Ali that the Social Democrats and government parties are not behind their reservation but agree with the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats that we must do more for the Creative School. It's great that you have come to this understanding – you didn't ask for approval for your own reservation. It is good that we can get even better conditions for the Alliance's efforts on the reform we introduced, the Creative School. Much more needs to be done. We had hoped that the government parties in the spring change budget had invested a large amount of money in the Creative School. If there is anything we need to invest more in and go through more, it is the cultural effort that reaches all children, and that does Creative School. It reaches the children from preschool and throughout school life, and we Moderates also want it to include high school. No matter how good the cultural school is, it does not reach all children. Amne Ali mentioned that not all children have access to the cultural school, but no proposals are made to improve access and access for all children. Among other things, there are no suggestions on how to shorten the queues. Only the municipal cultural school and their teachers apply; there is nothing about opening up opportunities for others – such as ballet schools not run by the municipality, or study associations – to participate. Since it has now gone into the detailed management of the municipalities' location of cultural schools via direct state grants, it should have done so. If you now want all children to be reached by the cultural schools, you should have made efforts to open up for other cultural school organisation to organise this, but you do not. Nor is anything done to enable children who cannot afford to attend the cultural school to have access to the cultural school. So it is very empty barrels that rattle on the part of Amne Alis and the government. In addition, instead of discussing the matter in KrU6, there are issues that are apparently to be included in our amending budget, but what I and we know will not be presented to Parliament until next week. Can we not stick to the matter we are discussing here? It is said in the petition that you have a clear perspective on children and young people. Yes, it is a good thing to have a clear perspective on children and young people, but there is a big difference between having a clear perspective on children and young people and making this the main priority of cultural policy. This is what we Moderates and the Alliance did throughout our reign – it was clear that the main priority was children's and young people's access to culture. Let's put it first. Of course, the municipal cultural schools give tens of thousands of children throughout the country the opportunity to express, explore and formulate their own thoughts, words and feelings. Together with the Creative School, which is mentioned here, they give a whole. In Creative School, all children have access to creative stimulation. This is not yet the case in the municipal cultural school, but it is very important to emphasise that this is the case. There are many other actors in the cultural field who are aimed at children, such as the church's children's activities with choirs and theatre activities, which could well be included in this. I have previously mentioned individual ballet schools, which exist in many municipalities, as something that could be included. The same applies to theatre workshops. So there is diversity, but the current government does not want to include this. The government wants it to apply only to municipal cultural schools and municipal activities. In the bill that has been put on the board of the Riksdag, they want to direct the municipal cultural schools, which are a municipal responsibility, instead of allowing the municipalities, together with the state, via the Swedish Arts Council, to make arrangements with tax money to invest in culture and discuss it so that it can be as much as possible. Instead, the government risks the whole model of cultural cooperation, just as it risks the whole of Filmsverige, with the proposal it has put forward. With what we have now heard that we are going to put on Parliament's table, we are trying to patch and fix things that have already been torn apart. It is very sad that it should be this way. We should have a different order. I would like to conclude where I agree with my colleague Amne Ali, namely that we should not have children's or young people's marriages. This discussion has taken place in another committee, and then the government parties have not been on board. But we can agree with you in the government parties that no children or young people should be able to marry and be married in this country.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-701	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 3 and 9. In this report we have a number of issues that are important for children and young people, which are our future. We will come back to our proposals for the Culture School in the report on the Culture School Bill. I intend to dwell on something that has received a lot of attention recently. Last year, when I was standing in this Chamber, I talked about the importance of being able to choose one's partner by myself. No one should be forced into a marriage, and child marriage should be unthinkable. Last year, the parliamentary civil committee issued an announcement to the government that meant that the government was expected to take a strong stance against child marriage and forced marriages. Despite the fact that this important announcement was already made last year, the Committee on Civil Liberties had to make a statement to the government on this issue again this year. When it came to a decision, the government parties and the Left Party voted against the Riksdag's announcement that children's marriages where the marriage took place abroad should not be recognised in Sweden. This has aroused strong feelings among us Swedish democrats, in other parties and among citizens, Madam President. After this came to light, the Social Democrats have expressed a different view, which is not in line with the action of the party in this House. The social democrats say in the media that they are against child marriage, while not supporting the aforementioned announcement to the government. It rhymes very badly in my ears, Madam President. Our position on these issues has been stable over the years. We maintain our attitude. We Swedish democrats still want to set up an investigation to see what can be done to tighten up the law and enforce it in order to prevent forced marriages in our country. In order to combat child marriage and forced marriage, we propose the introduction of a well-functioning system with a 24-year limit, which, among other things, Denmark has introduced. For marriage to be used as a reason for a residence permit in the country, both parties to the marriage shall be over 24 years of age. With this rule, according to Danish parties, fewer people are subjected to forced marriages to give family or friends a residence permit in the country. Since this system works very well in Denmark, we should be able to introduce it in Sweden as well. It should of course also apply to forced marriages that take place outside Sweden's borders and include Swedish citizens, so that you cannot go to another country and get married and then come back and get the partnership approved or registered. Madam President, we should be able to learn from our neighbours and their successes. It is remarkable that the government parties and the Left party were unable to vote for a proposal for Parliament on this subject. It seems to me that, despite its high stance on equal opportunities, the government does not take this issue seriously, in our opinion. The current government says it will present a bill, but it is only after the elections in September. According to Swedish custom and legislation, marriage should be a mutual and voluntary act.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-713	Madam President, I would like In my own speech, I mentioned the importance of libraries. That is where we could learn the importance of source criticism. We know today that it is a scarce commodity, but I never really thought that the representatives of the Parliament would be able to spread such things. The government will soon come forward with a proposal. We are currently having an ongoing investigation that is about tightening up the substandard legislation on child marriage that the Alliance has previously presented. Everyone here knows this. What we've done is wait for what the investigation will come up with. This means that the government will come up with a sharp proposal on child marriage – a proposal that reinforces the substandard law that the Alliance previously put forward. I want to make that clear. When we live in the time in which we live today, I think that we, as parliamentary representatives, have an extra responsibility to deliver the facts, whether it benefits one's party or not.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-716	Madam President, I would like It's nice, Amne, that you're standing here talking so good. But now, as you heard when I spoke, the Committee on Civil Liberties has given two confessions, and you do not want to follow them. You're talking about responsibility and democracy. Then you should have been able to follow the announcements that have been made so that we can put an end to this?
i-16549c8b2ba66885-717	Madam President, I would like Yeah, that's it. However, we know very well that the Riksdag operates in such a way that when investigations are set up, we expect the profession to come up with proposals that we will consider, and that is what we are waiting for right now. We don't say: Now all children can come here to Sweden, and it's okay for them to get married. What we do is wait for a proposal that is so strong that it works in Sweden, a proposal that is correct and correct according to children's science, to strengthen the Alliance's previously substandard law.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-719	Madam President, I would like I think we all want to end child marriage, or forced marriage for that matter, and that it should be decided, because there is nothing we want here in our country. In the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, the Social Democrats expressed reservations in the CU8 report, including the text:... it cannot be entirely ruled out that situations can arise where a foreign child marriage should be recognised in order for Sweden to live up to its international commitments. ..................................................... What should citizens believe in?
i-16549c8b2ba66885-722	Madam President, I would like Access to culture for children and young people is one of the areas of cultural policy where we see the most obvious differences in ambition between the government parties on the one hand and the alliance parties on the other. The cultural school is an example of this. We now have for the first time state support for the municipal cultural school, based on the ambition that we want all children and young people to have access to cultural school regardless of the municipality of origin. All alliance parties want to remove the grant completely, the Center Party based on some kind of rhetoric that they do not want direct funding in the field of cultural policy for the municipalities. Then one might think that the Center Party, on the other hand, would like to increase the funding for the cultural cooperation model. No, the Center Party is the alliance party that cuts the most resources into the cultural cooperation model. That is, the Center Party takes at one end and takes at the other end. Of course, the school only reaches those children and young people who seek out for their activities. To reach all children and young people with culture, the school is the most important platform. The government has come forward with a bill to reintroduce aesthetic subjects on all national upper secondary programmes. And it is with sadness in my heart that today I take note of the fact that the alliance parties want to reject the bill. It does not want all young people in upper secondary school to have access to aesthetic subjects. Do you understand the harm you do to the young people? Cecilia Magnusson talks about Creative School. The government has during this term developed Creative School and included preschool in Creative School. But Cecilia Magnusson's rhetoric is not connected here. On the one hand, she says that it is wrong with targeted funding for the cultural school, on the other hand that funding for the Creative School is not wrong, an activity for which the municipalities are responsible. The rhetoric is not connected. Of course, we will have grants for both culture school and creative school. Nor is KD's rhetoric connected here. The Christian Democrats are the party that goes forward and wants to make cuts in the funding for the Creative School. Roland Utbolt is happy to explain which part of the Creative School's activities the Christian Democrats want to remove. Culture for children and young people is, of course, not just about what is exclusively aimed at children and young people, but about making culture more accessible in general in the institutions that exist. Here we see very positive happening. The museum sector is one example. Then I am thinking not primarily of how we have politically strengthened the conditions for children and young people to take part in the museum's activities with the reform with free admission but also of how the profession has developed the activity to target more exhibitions directly to children and young people and not only as part of an exhibition, an exhibition in the exhibition, but often with large exhibitions aimed at children and young people, for example at the Museum of World Culture in Gothenburg. A few weeks ago, the Committee on Culture had the privilege of making a study visit there and seeing the fantastic exhibition activities. Here I would like to address a question to the Swedish Democrats. We have previously debated the fact that the Swedish Democrats have proposed that the Museum of World Culture in Gothenburg be completely dismantled. Do the Swedish Democrats stand by this position, or after seeing the Museum of World Culture behind the scenes, have they been able to develop their politics and back away from their position? As regards access to culture, we had a very bleak development during the year of the Alliance's government around the country. Every tenth library branch was shut down in the country. As much as one in three cinemas was closed down in the country. When the Alliance took office in 2006, there were approximately 600 cinemas in the country. In 2014, only 400 cinemas remained – an extremely gloomy development. During this parliamentary term, we have worked to reverse this trend. We now have a grant for libraries. And we have an allocation for the rural cinemas, an element that we are now strengthening from the 25 million already in this year's budget to an additional 15 million SEK, i.e. a total of 40 million SEK for the rural cinemas to create better conditions to reverse the trend. As a representative of Uppsala County, I am happy to see that new cinemas are now starting. In Östhammar we get a new cinema during the year. There is much to say about Cecilia Magnusson's speech. I would like to begin by saying that we, both the Green Party and the Social Democrats, are, of course, in favour of reservation 5, but for time we are not in favour of it, just as Cecilia Magnusson is not in favour of the reservations of all the Moderates. I had expected Cecilia Magnusson today to apologise for all the errors she made in the previous debate of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and the Media, and for the misstatement. She has now had time to think and should have been able to apologize for some things. Among other things, she said at the time that I would have argued on one occasion that I want to increase VAT in different parts of the cultural area. I have never made such a statement. Cecilia Magnusson knows that, but she still makes such a statement. Cecilia Magnusson also had difficulties on the last occasion to account for how big cuts the Moderates make in the field of culture. It is 1.2 billion that the Moderates cut down on the cultural field. Remember, Cecilia Magnusson, that it is 1.2 billion you are cutting down! And a large part of this is about culture for children and young people. The Moderates say that in cultural policy they give priority to culture for children and young people. If that is how they deal with an area which they prioritise, then one might wonder how they deal with the other areas which they do not prioritise. Despite the fact that we now have the strongest cultural budget ever in Sweden, we are making strong progress in our amending budget and providing an additional SEK 75 million to the cultural area, SEK 15 million to rural cinemas, as I mentioned, and in addition to that SEK 60 million directly to culture for children and young people. We have not yet dealt with this in Parliament, but I dare say that the Moderates will reject all these resources. Cecilia Magnusson can correct me if I am wrong on this point.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-737	Madam President, I would like The Left Party has several motions raised in the report that we are debating here today. Unfortunately, it is proposed that they be rejected. I agree with the reservations that I have put forward in committee, but I choose to accept only reservation 6 here today. We want all children to have the opportunity to experience and try different cultural expressions. A great deal of political effort is needed to make it a reality. Together with the government, the Left Party has made investments in the cultural school, expanded the Creative School to include preschool and made a big effort on libraries, both school libraries and public libraries, which feels very positive. As children and young people's right to culture is also a national cultural policy objective, which we have established here in the Riksdag, all authorities in the cultural field must integrate a child's perspective into their activities. We feel very positive about that. As with much else, people's cultural patterns are established very early. Of course, children who have experienced professional culture and had to try theatre or other creative activities, such as art, are easier to imagine a future career in the field. We see that cross-recruitment to artistic education is a serious problem in Sweden, and we need to start with the children in order to get to grips with this. In the adult population, cultural habits are very different depending on background, educational level, gender and income. All these pieces play a major role in how we practice culture ourselves and how we consume culture as an audience. We in the Left Party are convinced that all people need culture in their lives and that society would be poorer and worse without culture. That is why we see it as a fundamental democratic issue that everyone should be able to take part in cultural life. School is the obvious arena where all children are. In preschool, we still don't really meet all the children. Therefore, we believe that the reform Creative School has been a positive factor for children to meet professional culture early on and for professional artists to work with children and young people in a natural way. This project has been going on for ten years and, as I said, there are great gains in it. However, we see some problems, a back-up that has not been mentioned in previous posts. It is up to municipalities and independent authorities to apply for this state grant, but not everyone does, unfortunately, despite the fact that there has been so much time and that those who make use of the grant are generally positive. What is said in the school evaluation is that this becomes more temporary sparklers. There will be something fun happening for a few hours, but it does not leave much impression in the business. It will not be an integral part of school activities. We see that there is a great deal of room for improvement, and so in our motion we propose that Creative School should move to the education budget and become an integral part of school activities. It would mean a clearer focus for the school to work with the aesthetic learning processes and that you can do it together with professional artists. It also gives local artists a safer labour market to see this as a natural part of school activities. This would mean that more children on a daily basis will benefit from cultural life. In the same exercise, called Culture for all children, we also suggest a survey of how the cultural institutions work together with the school, how they interact today and how it could develop in the future. More parties should be able to support such a survey so that we can have a better interaction between the school system and the cultural institutions. Madam President, I would like So a few words about the debate here on child marriage. We were lumped together with strange claims. When the Child Marriage Act was strengthened in 2014, we felt that the tightening up was not enough. The Left Party was then the only party to say that it was not enough and that further tightening was needed. I think that it should be admitted from several quarters that history has been written in such a way. The Left Party was clear in 2014, and we are clear now as well. As the representative of the Social Democrats pointed out, we are waiting for an investigation. I have spent a short time in Parliament, but I understand that it is practice and usual manners that we wait for the investigations that are going on and do not throw forward proposals at the last second and say, look here, you do not want to support our proposals, when investigations and proposals are on the way. At the beginning of the year, a report dealt with public services. Then all motions from all parties were rejected. Perhaps the Swedish Democrats supported one of their movements, but otherwise all parties said that they wanted to wait for the ongoing public service inquiry. It is exactly the same with the investigation of child marriage; there is nothing strange. However, for those who listen to the debate, it is important to point out that this is what we are doing and that there is no strangeness. It is sad if we try to smudge the parties who want to make sure that they are tightened up in this area.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-755	Madam President, I would like Some corrections need to be made regarding the Creative School. It is not a project or an irrbloss, it is a serious business. The school or the municipality must make a plan for how it is to be implemented, what to do and to what extent, and you must report afterwards – in the sense that you should think through and prepare for your own funding in order to give students the creative awakening and confirmation that cultural expressions can provide, and this will result in students getting a better knowledge acquisition. I am therefore opposed to the simplified description that it is a project and an irrbloss in school activities – not so. However, we fully agree that these activities need to be developed. That is why there is an announcement in this area. When it comes to child marriage, it's great that we get influences. The majority of committees have made announcements in 2017 and 2018, but the government base does not even want to focus on it. It is a strong message to the investigation and government parties to ensure that no child under 18 years of age in this country has to get married.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-758	Madam President, I would like Creating school is a good business. That is why we want it to be extended to reach all children and to become an integral part of the school. The fact that I call it Santa Claus is based on the investigation that was carried out in 2013. Here you say from school that Creative School is fun, that the students appreciate it and that it is a positive element but that it does not put deeper impressions, does not change the school's way of working and that the teachers see it as something that comes beside and not as a natural part. When, after ten years, we look at what has happened and at the evaluations that have been carried out, we see that we need to take another step. I am aware that the municipalities are making a serious plan. I myself have been a municipal politician and worked with Creative School and seen that it is positive for both artists and students. However, for school activities this should not be a trace aside from which one can choose to have or lose. It is not certain that when prioritizing in syllabuses and lesson plans you feel that you can set aside time for Creative School. We therefore believe that this must become a natural and integral part of children's everyday lives. That's how we look at Creative School. As I said, we have a motion in this area. We also have a special opinion on your motion, because we see that we need to move in this direction. When it comes to child marriage, we differ a little more in history. The reason there's an investigation going on is because the government wants to see a tightening up. Otherwise, you wouldn't have set up the investigation. It is therefore a little unnecessary, if you do not want to take cheap political points, to make these announcements when there is actually a tightening-up going on. It is great that everyone will vote in favour of this when there is a proposal. This was not the case in 2014, but the Left Party has been clear on this issue for many years.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-766	Madam President, I would like When it comes to Creative School, the School Act states that children and young people should receive creative stimulation in their learning. The Alliance government introduced the Creative School because the schools failed to do this and because the Ministry of Education did not want to set up funds for it. Then the Ministry of Culture took their tax money and sent this stimulus to the schools so that the students in their acquisition of knowledge would receive a creative stimulus and an initiative: you can and you should. You're welcome. You're welcome. You're welcome. That is why it is important that we drive the Creative School further and develop it. And this can very well be done within the cultural cooperation model. But that reform is the government parties, together with the Left Party, about to shoot at bay. Around the municipalities there are many who wonder if S-MP-V does not want the cultural cooperation model. Not one, but several times have you sent cultural funds next to the cultural co-operation model. What's next? It's a dangerous game you're playing on the government side right now, in terms of credibility.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-769	Madam President, I would like I thought maybe we could agree on something there, Cecilia Magnusson. But then you throw in claims about the cultural collaboration model again. You and I debated that last time we had a debate in this House. You're saying that somehow we're trying to undermine the model. But that's not the case. We have provided more money for that model during this term of office. And we have previously talked about that our investment in cultural schools is not a governance but a way to support municipal activities. I want to go back to Creative School. In our exercise, which it really sounds a bit like you could support, we have an idea that schools could have cultural educators. They could take on the overall responsibility that cannot be achieved on the usual school day, for example to cooperate with local cultural institutions and local artists. We see this as meaning that the school could become a stronger player in local cultural life. How would this relate to the local cultural cooperation model? It's really exciting if you can connect to the school's work as well. So there are a lot of positive things to do, both in terms of the role of schools and in terms of developing the cultural cooperation model. We are in favour of more power and money being spent on municipalities and regions in order to implement a positive cultural policy.
i-XFiusJ5SoNTDtPAuJMsR5j	Madam President, I would like " I just put my feet in the air and move them around. " It's a famous quote from Fred Astaire, who was one of Hollywood's biggest movie stars in the last century and perhaps the biggest dance star on film of all time. Fred Astaire responded to what he meant by his dance. What was his message about the dance? "I have no desire to provide anything by dancing," replied Fred Astaire. " I have never used it as an outlet or a means of expressing myself. It's just dance. I just put my feet in the air and move them around. " " I have no desire to prove anything with my dance. I'm just dancing. I just lift my feet up in the air and move them. " That's the way it can be with dancing, yes, with culture at all. It's only there for its own sake. Culture has its own value. At the same time, culture provides so much more. Art, culture and education are the core of civilization. It accommodates our accumulated experiences in a multifaceted form, where we can gain an understanding of ourselves, each other, our past and our future. That might sound loud. But I think we can all find examples where culture has affected us in some way. We have also heard this from many here in the speaker's chair today. Culture may have given us a new perspective or created completely new conditions for us. That is why it is so important to also give children and young people the opportunity to meet with culture and participation in culture. Madam President, I would like I can give a lot of examples from the time when I myself worked as a dance teacher that both me and my students got experiences and learned something new through the dance. It could be small experiences or perhaps life-changing discoveries. One example that's stuck in my memory is the guy who was severely bullied. I'd have a dance with his class. There was a bug on the schedule. This guy snuck into the gym and sat down on a bench at the bottom of the corner. He tried to make himself as small as he could not be seen. But the classmates didn't miss him. Smuggling was thrown. You even went for him physically. At least the dance class started. Of course, I didn't tolerate harsh words or jumps during class. And everyone got to dance with everyone – equal terms for everyone. Of course, it also included learning manners and sense on the dance floor, such as how to invite and thank you for the dance. On the fourth occasion with dance lessons, that is, after three weeks, this guy first entered the gym. He stretched and walked straight in the back with a confidence that he had certainly not shown before. I hardly recognized him as he stepped into the middle of the hall and wondered if we would not start soon. And when the rest of the class sloped in, no one said a few taunts. It was the other way around. Talked and laughed with the guy. And no one made ugly faces behind his back when they were going to dance. Surprisingly, I slowly began to figure out where this confidence and the turn in the conduct of the rest of the class came from. Turns out they had a class party a few days earlier. Then the girls would be in line to dance with that particular guy, when he was the best dancer in the class. In addition, he knew how to conduct himself and ask and thank him for the dance. The dance lessons at school had given this guy confidence and at the same time given the classmates tools to behave and relate to each other. With this story from reality, I would like to point out the importance of culture in school. I know that there are similar stories and experiences from cultural workers around the country, not least from cultural workers who have participated in the creative school. Madam President, I would like Creating school, which is run from a motion from the Center Party, means that all students in a class get to experience and participate in culture under the leadership of professional cultural creators. It is an important contribution for children and young people to be able to communicate with culture and also to practice culture. Being able to take part in, but perhaps even more to practice, culture brings an incredible amount back. However, it is not only cultural creation itself that develops when a child or a youth is given the opportunity to take part in culture and creation. Whether it is writing, painting, dancing, playing music or any other cultural expression, the individual develops in many ways. Developing one's talent in a cultural activity strengthens the child's faith in himself and understanding of others. Children's and young people's opportunities to take part in culture and to develop their talents are, of course, an important political priority. An incredible added value is created when culture through professional cultural creators is given space in school. Evaluations of the Creative School also show, among other things, how children's and young people's participation and influence develop when culture takes place in school. It has also contributed to improving the climate of cooperation in schools and to strengthening students' self-esteem and self-confidence. In addition to the students' development on several levels, I believe – no, I am convinced – that the cultural worker also has new important experiences and knowledge. At the same time, it creates jobs for professional artists and cultural creators. Madam President, I would like The government has just come up with a cultural school bill. We shall therefore come back to this debate. In this context, however, I would like to highlight briefly also the important and valuable activities of the municipal school of culture. We from the Center Party want the municipal cultural school also to exist in each municipality. On the other hand, how the business is organised must be determined on the basis of local conditions. The School of Culture is a municipal activity. The Center Party does not want any government policy that risks destroying good local activities or that is not adapted to the conditions even in smaller towns. The solution lies in the fact that the cultural school is just municipal, without government control and touchsticks. Madam President, I would like As I said, we will have to come back to this when the bill on the cultural school is to be discussed here in Parliament later on.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-790	Madam President, I would like When Per Lodenius speaks, he sounds just like an environmental partyist. He speaks extremely positively about dance lessons in school and the value of culture in school. But when it comes to the actual decisions, the Center Party no longer stands up for this policy. Earlier today, it was announced that the alliance parties reject the government's proposal to reintroduce aesthetic subjects in upper secondary school. Per Lodenius has said in previous debates that he regrets that the Alliance government removed the aesthetic subjects from upper secondary school. Per Lodenius has previously sounded like he would support a reintroduction. I want to ask you, Per Lodenius, why this hating? Why are you no longer standing up to reintroduce the aesthetics of upper secondary school?
i-16549c8b2ba66885-792	Madam President, I would like The aesthetics of high school are important. They should be available and be possible to choose, and they should be prioritised by students. I might think they could be mandatory. But that space does not exist right now, because there are so many other topics that are also important. We are currently prioritising the topics linked to the specific programmes chosen. These are the substances that should be prioritised as regular substances, so to speak. That's how the Center Party has looked at this. However, we want to continue to look at how culture can develop in upper secondary school. For example, Creative School could also enter upper secondary school, which could mean a real boost for upper secondary school, because Creative School comes from outside and does another part. I can see the advantage of the aesthetic subjects being present in high school, but there is currently no space in the curriculum to accommodate them during the time students attend school. However, we from the Center Party are looking at whether you could have more days of lessons, i.e. longer school years, and possibly even extend to ten-year primary school. It is therefore a question of the fact that there is no room today. The important thing is to give priority to the specific subjects targeted at the programmes on which you are going.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-796	Mr President, I would like to Now Per Lodenius sounded more like a common center party. It was a hating back and forth – neither one nor the other. Maybe it'll be something in the future. Now there's no room, but hopefully then. I hope the Center Party can finally land in space. The Government has proposed in the bill where space can be taken, namely within the framework of upper secondary school work. What is so tragic is that the Alliance acts as if the aesthetic subjects stole time from other teaching, even though all the research shows that aesthetic activity, on the contrary, adds something and makes it easier as a student to assimilate the theoretical subjects. As far as the cultural school is concerned, I would argue that Per Lodenius makes complete errors when he says that there is some sort of government governance. It's not about running the cultural school. It's about supporting the business. I've been around and talked to cultural school managers myself in different municipalities. They say the same thing: this is support. We feel that we can fully direct and shape our operations in the way we find it best. However, the overall effect of state aid is that more children and young people can now enter the business. What the Center Party says it wants to achieve, we achieve with state support for the cultural school. The rhetoric of the Center Party is that it does not want direct state funding for the cultural school, because it is municipal activity. At the same time, however, direct state support is given to the Creative School. Of course, state support for Creative School is good. But the rhetoric is not connected. You don't want state aid for one business but you say okay to state aid to the other. Why do you treat businesses so differently?
i-16549c8b2ba66885-801	Mr President, I would like to Tragic, says Niclas Malmberg. Yes, it is tragic when the Green Party tries to explain how one feels that one from the state should decide on distribution and on the laws and rules for how municipalities should manage their activities. Creating school is a voluntary activity for which money can be applied. What the business should then contain is determined on the spot from a local perspective. When it comes to cultural school, they want to set clear government-led targets. It is in the nature of the objectives that one should manage the business. Education of educators for the cultural school is of course a government matter. Higher education is a government matter, and it is the state that is responsible for that. However, cultural school activities are municipal activities. Right now they have government-led and targeted contributions to the cultural school's activities from the government. It goes without saying that cultural schools must adapt in order to receive these subsidies. Creative school is a completely different type of activity, where the contributions are not governing in any other way than that it should be just a creative school activity and a cultural activity. It's something completely different. It is an activity that takes place during shorter periods and is not a permanent activity such as the cultural school. There are two very different things that Niclas Malmberg talks about. It is also tragic that it seems to be the policy of the Green Party and the Government to raise money in various ways, for example by increasing the price of tickets in rural cinemas by increasing VAT and giving back so-called investment aid, which you can only apply for if you can spend money yourself, which means that the cinemas today have to close down. The start of a cinema in Östhammar is due to the closure of other cinemas in that chain. Today, the cinema in Östhammar is run by an association. It is not that you start a new cinema, but it is a smaller chain with small cinemas that take over it while other cinemas are closed down. This is where you can get reasonably good profitability.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-805	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Academy is in windstorm. One might wonder what made our beloved Astrid Lindgren not receive the Nobel Prize in literature. But it may be because of what has been revealed in recent times. What would be genius and taste has become intrigue and friendship corruption. The awakening is a parachute jump from the dream. This is how it can be illustrated, and so is the first line of Tomas Tranströmer's first collection of poems from 1954. He became well-deserved Nobel laureate in literature. It must be considered a very good choice, so let's leave the Swedish Academy for a while to read some wonderful metaphors of Tomas Tranströmer. Before that, however, I would like to thank Per Lodenius for a very touching example of what might happen in school. Surely it is only in the Committee on Culture that such stories can be shared. Tomas Tranströmer writes in his poem The formulas of Winter: Three black oaks out of the snow. So rough, but dexterous. Out of their huge bottles will the greenery foam in spring.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-811	You've seen so much. The reality has been so hard on you, but here's the summer at last: a major airport – the traffic controller takes down load after load of frozen people from space. Mr President, I would like to We are debating culture and leisure for children and young people. In June 2014, the Parliament decided on a new goal for all government decisions and actions concerning young people aged between 13 and 25, namely that all young people should have good living conditions, the power to shape their lives and influence social development. All young people must have good living conditions. It's a beautiful and ingenious thought. What is serious – and we are all aware – is that there are so many children and young people who, because of economic and social vulnerability, do not take part in the cultural offering. We have said in the Alliance that free admission to state museums is an unnecessary reform and that money should instead be spent on getting more of those who, for various reasons, including social and economic, are prevented from cultural activities to enter a world of creativity and meaning. We believe in interventions, i.e. outreach activities aimed at those who are not motivated. El Sistema is one such initiative, which I would like to mention. It may be unknown to many, but it is an important institution in terms of culture for children and young people. El Sistema started in 2010 in Hammarkullen in Gothenburg, when Gustavo Dudamel and Gothenburg Symphony gave concerts there. After five years, El Sistema was present at all Gothenburg cultural schools and in 17 other municipalities, including Malmö and Södertälje. In Sweden, an important goal for El Sistema is to counter segregation. The children's families are also activated at evening meetings. Yet, of course, much remains to be done. Culture is more than music, but as a musician I also know what an opportunity it is as a young person to get away from simple contexts far from the big cities into a cultural and creative environment. I have made that journey myself, and I am convinced that without the music I would not be standing here today either. Those of us who are cultural workers know the importance of culture. We Christian Democrats want to build a modern cultural policy that protects the intrinsic value of culture and see its potential to contribute to all sectors of society, with arm's length distance between culture and political decision-making. Mr President, I would like to Not everyone gets a share of the general welfare. The leisure money introduced by the Alliance came into use in the municipalities but was removed by the left-wing government with Social Democrats and environmentalists, with the support of the Left Party. Have you ever heard of the holiday money before? The leisure allowance is intended for children in grades 4 to 9 who live in households who have been supported by income support for at least six months in the last 12 months. The total was a maximum of SEK 3 000 per child per year and covered actual expenses for participation in regular leisure activities. Now it's gone. The government removed it quite quickly, and we Christian Democrats want to introduce it again. There are two arguments against leisure money. One is that it would be stigmatising. But the fact is that it is in the field of social services, so there is nothing public about it. The second argument seems to me to be rather weak. They say that they believe in the general welfare, and so they mean that everyone should receive the benefits. It is just that families living in very weak economic conditions are hopelessly excluded. A leisure allowance for a school trip or tuition fee to cultural school or other activity would mean a lot to the family and the child living in such a situation. Gradually, I hope that my colleagues in the Committee on Culture, in all the parties that are so far opposed to leisure money, will give way so that it can be reintroduced as we Christian Democrats want. Mr President, I would like to Creation school was one of the alliance government's biggest cultural policy reforms. It came in 2008, and the idea was a collaboration between the school and professional cultural life. In the Alliance, we welcome the fact that the current government has chosen to maintain the reform. Evaluations show that the reform reaches many pupils, and this is not least important when it comes to those students who do not attend municipal cultural schools or come from culturally interested homes. However, there are still things that need to be developed within the framework of the Creative School, for example that some smaller municipalities do not apply for funds to the same extent as larger ones and that free schools to a lesser extent than municipal schools apply for support. The reasons for this need to be analysed in order for the reform to reach even more children and young people in the long term. Let me finish where I started – in Tomas Tranströmer's poem that I have been in love with for many years. I want to read one of his poems called Romance Arches. In the vast Romane church, tourists were crowded in the half-dark. Vault gaping behind vaults and no overview. Some light flames fluttered. An angel without a face embraced me and whispered through the whole body: Inside you, vaults open up behind vaults endlessly. You'll never be finished and it's all right. I was blinded by tears and pushed out on the sun-sounding piazza along with Mr and Mrs Jones, Mr Tanaka and Signora Sabatini and inside them all opened vaults behind vaults endlessly.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-827	Mr President, I would like to Niclas Malmberg put a straight question to us Swedish democrats, and I would like to answer him as best I can. This is not really my area, and it has been some time since this was discussed. I think it was some bill 2013 or 2014 when we had a couple of reservations and so on. Now I've found out and read and taken to heart. It is true, Mr Niclas, that we have some doubts about world culture museums. I think I can figure out what you are thinking about; you may be referring to Gothenburg and we would like to see it closed down. But above all, we are opposed when it is founded for political purposes. It should not have an ideological focus, but rather a knowledge base.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-830	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a clear answer. Then I can regret that the answer is what it is. Based on the study visit made by the Committee on Culture at the Museum of World Culture in Gothenburg, I had hoped that the Swedish Democrats would come to realize that these are professional museum activities based on exhibitions and knowledge. It's not an ideologically driven museum. I hope that the Swedish Democrats will continue to look at this issue and reconsider their policy here. I mean, you're all wrong when you want to dismantle and remove an entire museum.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-832	Mr President, I would like to We believe that museums should not have political objectives other than being a knowledge institution for you. So we should not work to preserve multiculturalism, to combat xenophobia and so on. That is what we oppose with this museum in Gothenburg.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-833	Mr President, I would like to Not to preserve multiculturalism, says Sara-Lena-Lena Bjälkö. But now we have a society with impressions from many parts of the world. We live in a multicultural society, and there must also be museums that reflect it. However, what the Museum of World Culture in Gothenburg does is not above all to reflect the diversity that exists in Sweden but to reflect cultures that exist in other parts of the world. I think it is very important and urgent that we can take part of these cultures in a museum in Sweden and do not have to go to other countries to do so. I hope once again that the Swedish Democrats will look more at the issue and reconsider their policy.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-836	Mr President, I would like to Of course we're looking at all the questions that come. Of course, there are several world culture museums that conduct a good and nuanced activity by, as Niclas Malmberg mentions, telling about other cultures based on their collections. But we still believe that the Museum of World Culture in Gothenburg, to which Niclas Malmberg refers, does not.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-837	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to debate MJU17 Forest policy, which is based on movements from the general period of exercise. The designs are about key biotopinventory, review of species protection regulations, protected areas, forest social values, bioeconomy strategy, forest use, Nordic cooperation, property rights and compensation issues. In the report, the committee deals with 60 requests from the general period of exercise. The committee proposes four announcements to the government. They are not supported by a united committee. This means that we in S, MP and V have four common reservations. As the report shows, the government is working hard on several of these issues. In order not to take up the time of the House with things that the government already prioritises and is working hard on, we do not call for any of this to be approved. The Government is invited to ensure that the inventory of key biotopes is legally secure and effective and that the classification takes account of local and regional conditions. Mr President, I would like to Swedish forestry policy is based on the two equal goals of production and the environment. A fundamental part of forestry policy is the sectoral responsibility of forestry and the freedom of forest owners under responsibility. Let us remember that the key biotopes concept and then the following inventory were produced on the basis of the bill on freedom under responsibility. This is a tool that Skogsstyrelsen worked out to ensure that environmental considerations were also taken into account when changing the focus from having been a purely decision-making and ordering authority – that's how I used to call Skogsstyrelsen. As a forest owner, I myself have received an injunction for forest ploughing. It was an injunction that I did not think was particularly suitable for the land in question. After the change of legislation there could be a dialogue, and now it is a natural birch rejuvenation that comes on the ground. What happened was that the Swedish Forest Board started working on the key biotopes concept, and eventually I also got a key biotope on the land. It was quite a while before I received compensation for the intrusion that it caused. It was a lot because money was not invested. In time, however, I have received compensation. It is therefore important that the whole area of forest policy is linked. Mr President, I would like to We will hear here the representatives of the Alliance, perhaps the Center Party in particular, argue that the government's forestry policy is a threat both to the bioeconomy and to property rights. In the media, the Center Party has called the government's policy a declaration of war against all forest owners in the country. I might think it's pretty hard. The S-led government has not changed any forestry legislation. On the other hand, the former alliance government did so – in addition, several times. This applies to the Forest Protection Act, Freedom under Responsibility, the EU Nature Conservation Directive, the Species and Habitats Directive, the EU Timber Regulation and the Forest Limits Bill, which was developed by former Minister of Rural Affairs Eskil Erlandsson. It should be made clear that much of the debate on the use of the mountain forest originates precisely from the bill Borders in the forest. The state authorities have found that there are high natural values in forest properties close to the mountains. Several forest owners in Västerbotten's hinterland who own mountain forest are now forced to process for the right to use their forest. It just doesn't feel right. In the past, landowners received compensation if the state had said no to felling, but Kammarkollegiet has now interpreted the law differently so that the compensation for mountain forest risks disappearing. I can understand that several bourgeois Members here have forgotten what the moderate-led government and responsible Minister Erlandsson's party actually decided and pushed through. The same government also implemented the Species Protection Regulation and put forward the Bill Limits in Forests, which became law and which means that forest owners now need special permission to harvest mountain forest. The bourgeois government also led the implementation of timber regulations. The regulation makes it difficult, almost impossible, to sell wood from forests with high natural values, which is reasonable. It is clear that we should therefore have a common political responsibility for this. We cannot now blame the current government for all these changes. Authorities and courts are currently examining how much compensation forest owners should have if the Swedish Forest Board says no to felling of mountain forest with the argument that it has high natural values that need to be preserved for future generations. It is now being assessed whether the law proposed by the bourgeois government and Eskil Erlandsson to the Riksdag may have to be interpreted differently from what has been done in the past. The government has seen and taken hold of the key biotope inventory. New methods for key biotop inventory will now be established in such a way that they have been developed in collaboration with the forest industry, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, county boards and certification organisations. The methods should be tested in 2018 and then evaluated and possibly adjusted. The government has therefore effectively increased the appropriations for this particular purpose in the budget. The Alliance and the Swedish Democrats do not do that, and this does not make the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats very credible on this issue. There is therefore no reason for the Riksdag to make any announcement on this or any other matter, as it is clear that the government is working to ensure that the key biotop inventory is legally secure. It should be ensured that the Species Protection Regulation is applicable and legally secure. The government is constantly working on sustainable forestry and today sees no need to clarify the legislation if it cannot be clarified further from the Alliance what is really to be clarified. The Alliance says that there needs to be a review, but it does not specify what. Then it will be quite difficult for the government to come up with something. We have clear memories of the feeding issue. It was an issue prepared by the former alliance government, worked out on the basis of, among others, the LRF and then convicted by the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats. As a result, it is not easy. Finally, a majority of the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats believe that a review should be carried out of different types of compensation models for forest protection in order to create more effective forms of protection. We note that compensation is given to landowners when, for example, new nature reserves, national parks or Natura 2000 sites are to be formed. Compensation can also be provided under the rules of the Environmental Code in the case of other restrictions of consultation. The practice is that the state replaces property owners with an amount corresponding to the property's reduced market value with a supplement of 25 percent. The authorities should now also be able to offer forest owners with key biotope-rich farming units the possibility of area protection and compensation, which is great. Based on this, the Government has strengthened the funding in the 2018 budget by SEK 250 million until 2027. With regard to the prohibition of logging and the right to compensation in the event of restrictions of consultation, we can conclude that such matters are currently subject to judicial review. The outcome of these court proceedings is important. They must be waited and analysed before any far-reaching conclusions can be drawn on the need for legislative changes. On this basis, we believe that there is currently no need to make any announcements to the government on this issue. In view of the strong suspensions by the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats in the budget in this area, it is clear that these parties lack understanding of the importance of the issue. As the Forest Social Values report shows, the Forest Board points out that protection of forests in urban areas, in particular, would bring major socio-economic benefits in terms of improving public health. There is scientific evidence that the forest is positive for rehabilitation in terms of stress, fatigue syndrome and cardiovascular diseases. There is evidence that schoolchildren with an easily accessible nature at their doorstep produce better results. We Social Democrats share this view and will work to ensure that more of the funds devoted to forest protection can be used for the protection of semi-urban forests. A fundamental part of forestry is its own sectoral responsibility and the freedom of forest owners under responsibility. As well as increasing protection and environmental protection, increased production of forest raw materials is important in a transition to a bio-based society and in phasing out fossil energy. The journey towards a bio-based society has started. The government has indicated the direction. The forest industry is now doing very well, and fellings, logging notifications and profits from the sector are increasing. The industry needs new jobs. The government has also presented an investment in green jobs to bring more people with low skills and more new arrivals into the sector, which will be important. To conclude – I see time running out – I would like to make three social democratic positions clear:
i-16549c8b2ba66885-864	Mr President, I would like to This, ladies and gentlemen, is a very urgent debate. The importance of forests for our country can hardly be exaggerated, but today we have a rather serious situation – a situation with an increasing number of forest owners feeling anxious and uncertain about the conditions for their use, their ownership and their entrepreneurship. Why is that? The forest industry goes like a train, makes big investments and constantly presents new products and uses for the forest raw material, as we try to leave the fossil era and transform into a bio-based economy. Yes, Mr President, this may seem paradoxical, but the situation today is that, after some tough years, the industry is venting morning air, while many timber producers, i.e. forest owners, are waking up at night and wondering whether they will be able to use their forest tomorrow, whether today's generation of forest owners will reap the benefits of previous generations of forestry measures and whether future generations will reap the results of the measures and work of today's forest owners. What, then, specifically has caused this, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Moderates, a very serious situation? I would say that the problem is rather complex and concerns a wide range of issues and perspectives, but to a large extent it is about the fact that today's red-green government does not pursue a clear and long-term forestry policy with respect for ownership and use rights. Now Isak From – as he did in his speech – will certainly protest and say that the previous forestry policy, based on the two equal objectives of the forest proposals, is solid and that the government has not implemented any major legislative changes. This is true, at least the latter, but the problem of the current government's policy is only partly what the government does. At least as much is about what the government does not do and what the government lets the authorities do. The Government has not taken Sweden's forest owners' concerns and views seriously when it comes to the erosion of ownership and use rights and risks being further eroded if the government makes a reality of, for example, the proposal for enhanced rights of speech. The government has not presented any new directives for the key biotop inventory in order to address the major and serious problems associated with the inventory which have affected the forest owners concerned. The government has not listened to the forest owners or the Swedish Forest Agency or the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency regarding the species protection regulation. As early as June 2016, the Directors-General of the said authorities in a joint letter called on the Government to review the Species Protection Regulation in order for decisions based on the Regulation to be taken in an applicable, effective and legally secure manner. But the government has not acted. Nor has the government acted sufficiently clearly, actively and forcefully within the EU to protect the interests of forest owners and the Swedish forest industry. The government has not been able to present a national forestry programme, despite the fact that the work was already begun by the Alliance government. The government has not taken any concrete measures to create the conditions for increased growth in forests and for increased biomass production. On the contrary, one-sidedly priority has been given to the protection of forests and to the removal of forests from production. Thus, the government has not taken advantage of the opportunity to allow the Swedish forest to do even greater climate benefits by replacing fossil and energy-intensive materials and products. This means that important jobs, especially in rural areas, have also been lost. These, Mr President, are examples of important measures and issues that the government has neglected or neglected and which have contributed significantly to the growing concern and uncertainty felt by Sweden's 330 000 forest owners. It is against this background that a majority here in Parliament, on the initiative of the Moderates and the Alliance, now wants to address not only one, two or three, but actually four announcements, i.e. sharp calls, to the government. Firstly, to ensure that the inventory of key biotopes is legally secure and effective and that classification takes account of local and regional conditions. Secondly, the government's review of the plant protection regime to ensure its application is effective and legally secure. Thirdly, ensuring a good incentive structure for sustainable forestry. Fourthly, a review of different types of replacement models in the protection of forests is being carried out in order to create more effective forms of protection. This, Mr President, is four announcements dealing with important issues for Swedish forestry, from both an environmental and a production perspective. These are questions that are intimately linked. In order to ensure a good incentive structure for sustainable forestry, I and the Moderates believe, the problems of both the key biotop inventory and the application of the Species Protection Regulation must be resolved. This responsibility lies with the government, and it is high time the government took on this responsibility, to say the least. The problem today is that the application of both the key biotope inventory and the species protection regulation means that landowners who have used their forests with great concern for biodiversity and thereby created high natural values are often penalised by restrictions on their ownership and use. I am really genuinely concerned about the reverse incentive structure that is becoming increasingly established. And even more so, I am concerned about the fact that the government does not seem to share my concerns. In order to further develop environmental concerns in forestry and in order for us as a country to have a chance to achieve the high environmental goals we have set ourselves, Sweden's forest owners must continue to do more and take greater responsibility than the law requires. Sweden's forest owners must continue with great commitment and curiosity to develop management methods and measures that lead to both increased growth in the forest and a rich biodiversity. Mr President, I would like to My point, then, is that environmental objectives can only be achieved through a large and voluntary commitment by Sweden's forest owners. This in turn requires respect for ownership and use rights and a structure that encourages instead of punishing forest owners who use their forests in such a way as to create high natural values. Mr President, I would like to I would like to stay here for a long time to talk about the many and great values of forests, about the key role of forests in the climate transition and about the additional proposals that we Moderates have made to develop Swedish forestry and the Swedish forest industry, but with respect to the allocated speaking time, I must try to limit myself. Of course, I support all the moderate reservations contained in the report, but for time-winning, I am only in favour of reservation 9 on bioeconomy strategy. In conclusion, however, I must really inculcate the need for a long-term forestry policy with a view to continued increased forest growth and the possibility of an increased withdrawal from the Swedish forest. This is important for so many reasons, not least for the climate. I have, on behalf of the Moderates, been involved in negotiating the world's most ambitious climate targets within the Environmental Objectives Committee. It is clear to me and the Moderates that the Swedish forestry industry plays a crucial role in achieving these climate goals. From the forest we can get sustainable building materials, green chemicals, textiles, fuels – yes, everything we get today from coal and oil we can get from the forest. But then the forest must be managed and it must be used so that growth is strong and so that forestry can supply the raw material needed by the industry. A few years ago I first heard about Domsjö Fabriker's fantastic plans to make huge investments in a new biorefinery in Domsjö outside Örnsköldsvik. The investment was estimated at somewhere between 15 and 22 billion and would thus be the largest investment in the Swedish forest industry ever. The investment would mean 4 000 – 5 000 jobs and a huge amount for the work to replace oil-based products with sustainable, renewable products from the Swedish forest. But now Domsjö is putting the plans on ice. Why? According to the Entrepreneur newspaper, this is done because of the government's forestry policy. The company is too worried and unsure about whether the raw material for the industry will exist. Mr President, I would like to Domsjö's message is not a small warning signal, but in my ears it is a loud siren that warns of something really serious. Forestry and the forest industry play a key role in climate change and in the transition to a bio-based economy. But the keys must be used. The forest must be cultivated. And since forestry is a long-term business with orbital times in many cases over 100 years, the policy must also be long-term and reasonably predictable. Today's forest owners must feel confident that future generations will be paid for the investments and work that are being done today. Otherwise, the whole model of Swedish forestry is demolished and thus also the foundation of the Swedish forest industry. The forest has more to give, but in order to better exploit the potential of the forest, the Swedish people need to fire this government in September.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-891	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Johan Hultberg, for your speech. It was very nice. It sounded almost sossigt a bit: Strong environmental considerations should characterise forestry and forestry must do more – it can work a little harder. We are probably in full agreement on that. With regard to future investments, a rather large investment has just been presented, as Sunpine is doing in Piteå to produce biofuels from pine oil. I can imagine that the industry is a little worried about the upcoming elections. Are you going to continue the transition towards a bio-based society or are you going to change something? That is rather the big question that the industry is asking. What exactly does politics want? The bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats paint the government's policy as a complete failure. At the same time, we see that the industry is doing better than ever. More investments are being made. More money goes to the forest industry and more money comes out of it. It doesn't really stick together. When it comes to the issues of ownership and the right of speech, which Johan Hultberg touched on, can I ask: Does Johan Hultberg know the Änok case? There, the Supreme Administrative Court ruled that environmental organisations had a right of appeal. Politically, it does not have to be changed in any way. The Supreme Administrative Court has already decided that it had a right of appeal. Environmental organisations were given the right to speak. Änokfallet is also the basis for much of what is happening now and in the future, especially when it comes to the mountains near the forest.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-895	Mr President, I would like to Historically, the Moderates and the Social Democrats have found it quite easy to come to an agreement on these issues. We have been two state-supporting parties, both of which have seen that forestry is an important part of the backbone of the Swedish economy. The forestry industry has meant a great deal to create the prosperity that we have today. There are two parties that have also seen the forest's potential for the future. Unfortunately, however, I can see that this government has not been able to pursue a policy that has taken advantage of that potential. I am deeply concerned, Mr President, that this government, and obviously also the Social Democratic Party and Isak From, are deaf to the loud, and rather agitated, voices that are now being raised from forestry. It concerns key biotop inventories, it concerns the proposal on the extension of the rights of appeal and it concerns the species protection regulation. What happened to the national forestry programme? This government claims to be working hard, but of course it does not come out very much. Mr President, I would like to I pointed out a paradox in my speech, namely that the industry is doing very well right now – there is a great demand for forest-based products – but at the same time, Sweden's forest owners are writhing at night in concern that the Forest Board's car will roll into the courtyard the next day. For me, it's a serious warning sign. Forest owners should not get a lump in their stomach when they see the Forest Board's car. Then something is seriously wrong. Then it is the responsibility of this government to try to steer up the problems that we see. When I listened to Isak From's speech, I was surprised that Isak From is trying to blame instead of taking responsibility for the serious problems that we see and that the representatives of forestry are jointly bringing forward and pointing out. Why isn't the government acting?
i-16549c8b2ba66885-900	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my speech, there are four announcements from the bourgeois majority in the committee and the Swedish Democrats that the government should make different reviews. At the same time, I argue – and this is clear from the report – that the government has started a direct job. As a result, for example, of the Änokdom, a new method will be reviewed and implemented that will be evaluated. Shall we review it one more time before we evaluate? Or what does Johan Hultberg want? It will be a little paradoxical for the parties that are sitting on the government to do about something, although it is very diffuse what we are going to do again. It is clear that there are a number of court proceedings to await. As we have said, if the court proceedings indicate that the legislation produced by the former bourgeois government does not work and is detrimental to forest ownership, we must change it. But then we must receive a clear message from you, and there has not yet been such a thing. In the judges to date, property rights are constitutionally established. It is about the case of the bomb wall, the court judgements and other court opinions which state that a state authority cannot go beyond ownership. It must be taken into account, and it is very clear. Not least the bourgeois parties may chase up some forest owners because this is a complete disaster. However, these are a few per mil of all logging claims that are being appealed and restricted. In the mountain forest it is 10 percent. That is why efforts are needed to find out what and how we are going to do.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-905	Mr President, I would like to Unlike Isak From, I do not think that ownership should only be taken into account, but it should be respected. That's the problem here. The government obviously does not seem to do so fully. Nor does it seem to give a clear mandate to the authorities to do so. I agree with Isak From that much of this is not about legislation, but about a slippage that has taken place in the authorities. And it is the government and no one else who is responsible for controlling the authorities and overcoming these concerns. Isak From wishes me to be clearer. Let us look at the species protection regulation. The Moderates believe that the government should listen to the responsible authorities who say that today's Species Protection Regulation is not sufficiently applicable and that its application is not legally secure or effective. They have therefore appealed to the government to carry out a review. We have written interpellation after interpellation and asked for a question here in Parliament about this review. The government's response has always been that the question is being prepared within the Government Office. At some point, Isak From, there must be an end to the preparation and time for action. As far as the key biotop inventory is concerned, the Social Democrats in their reservation say that forest owners must accept the way in which they work and understand it. But forestry has not. It's enough to read last week's issue of Land. In the statement by representatives of the various forest owners' associations and other actors that it has now been a year without them having been able to see any changes affecting reality. The new methodology applies only to north-west Sweden. In an article in Today's Industry we could read last Monday that there is a risk that the use of the key biotopes concept can be a declaration of war against all forest owners in Sweden. This is a serious signal that I think the government should listen to.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-917	Mr President, I would like to More than half of Sweden's area consists of forest. Its importance has many different dimensions, not least in terms of outdoor life, tourism, cultural heritage and biodiversity. At the same time, forestry is one of our most important industries and is an extremely important link in the chain that holds together our entire economy. It is about 130 billion in exports and 70 000 jobs. Mr President, I would like to A world-class forest industry is the cornerstone of the Swedish economy. Ultimately, this forest industry is also based on good availability of high-quality raw materials. The Swedish forest is a national matter. There is currently potential for increased use of forest opportunities, which can generate several thousands of new jobs and even more export revenues. In Sweden we have an enormous resource in the form of knowledge and experience in forestry. This is something that we Swedish democrats want to develop further, but then we must also ensure that it remains economically viable to own and farm forests in that country. In modern times we in Sweden have never had as much forest as now, and the amount of forest is increasing. Essentially, the state of Sweden's forests is much better today than it was 100 years ago. In total, according to Skogsstyrelsen, more than 30 percent of Swedish forests are excluded from active forestry, if voluntary provisions and unproductive forest land are included. Mr President, I would like to The meanings differ as to how much forest is set aside for natural purposes in Sweden. Some operators indicate lower figures, while statistics from the Swedish Forest Agency show that as much as one third are excluded from forestry. These are differences arising from different definitions. There is also a difference in how the government, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency report figures for protected forests. For the debate, it is misleading when even the world of authorities cannot agree on common concepts. Ultimately, it is crucial whether the international forest definition of the United Nations, FAO, or the home-made forestry concept – productive forest – is used. Mr President, I would like to The Species Protection Directive means that in practice forestry would be prohibited if the Directive were strictly complied with. It contains a ban on disturbing birds or damaging their breeding grounds, regardless of where they are. The implementation of the directive in Swedish legislation, mainly through the Species Protection Regulation, goes far beyond what the directive says, especially with regard to birds. The reporting has mainly been handled by Artdatabanken and the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences and without the necessary transparency from others who may have an interest in knowing more about the nature conservation work carried out in the forest and its importance for endangered species and habitats. In view of these uncertainties in the reporting and reporting, it is not appropriate to use that evidence to evaluate either the environmental objective of living forests in general or whether certain habitats have favourable status or not. It's time for the government to rewrite the Species Protection Ordinance. Sweden should instead set conservation targets based on its own definitions of different nature types and evaluate conservation work towards these goals. The government must also clarify whether the assessment of the favourable conservation status is to be carried out at local, regional or national level and how the landowner is to be replaced if prevented in ongoing land use. Mr President, I would like to The creation of the Key Biotopes has become a major disadvantage for many landowners, who often end up in an expropriation-like situation without the possibility of reasonable compensation. The industry cannot, on the basis of the requirements of the various certification bodies, buy wood from forests classified as possible key biotopes. However, no system exists today for compensation for infringements or for financial compensation in any other way linked to possible key biotopes. In order for an area identified as a possible key biotope to lead to an economic settlement with the landowner, it must be protected in a formal agreement, usually as a nature reserve or biotope protection area or with a conservation agreement. The government's original purpose of commissioning the Forest Board to inventory key biotopes was to obtain a material on how forest areas for official protection could be prioritised. Although the Swedish Forest Board decides not to provide formal protection for a possible key biotope, this area remains in the list of key biotopes and cannot therefore be effectively harvested. New positions on possible key biotopes are very rarely taken, and procedures for removal of possible key biotopes that do not lead to formal protection are lacking. The Swedish Democrats therefore believe that the key biotopes concept as a whole needs to be revised so that certain sensitive habitats are not over-represented or under-represented. In addition, the Forest Board should continuously de-register key biotopes that are no longer appropriate. A system of financial compensation linked to the key biotopes therefore needs to be put in place. Mr President, I would like to In a departmental spromemoria, the government proposes to introduce a road wear tax on heavy goods vehicles over three and a half tonnes. Under the current proposal, European roads, other national roads and primary county roads are to be included in the taxation system, with the exception of roads with less than 500 vehicles per day. No matter what kind of tax at a distance the government imposes, it will be placed on top of already existing taxes. They are, as we all know, quite high. A road wear tax would hit extra hard in northern Sweden, where distances are longer and alternative transport options are lacking. For the transport of forest raw materials, there is also rarely a solution other than truck transport. The Swedish Democrats are opposed to the introduction of such a road-wear tax. Mr President, I would like to Ownership is a fundamental part of democratic society. The well-functioning Swedish forest model with two overall and equal forest policy objectives, the environmental objective and the production target, has served us well and should continue to develop further in consultation with the forest industry. Individual ownership enables freedom and self-determination, and it is necessary in a democratic society. But we are now seeing that self-determination is increasingly restricted from environmentalist government officials and organisations. Legislation and overinterpretation of international conventions must not lead to restrictions on ownership or the right of disposal of the landowner. The Swedish Democrats are clear that landowners' rights of access to justice and financial compensation in the event of restrictions and restrictions on the use of land must be ensured. We believe in the right to own, use and control their own forest. A successful forestry policy is achieved through voluntary and knowledge rather than through too detailed laws and regulations. Having said that, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 7.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-936	Mr President, I would like to We are debating forestry policy today. It is an important policy area. The forest is important to all of us. Some of us love to pick mushrooms and berries. Others like to take a run or walk with the dog in the woods. Some people like to hunt. Many draw power, and recover, in the forest. The forest also provides us with renewable materials that are needed in the sustainable construction of society, so that we can build in wood instead of concrete and so that we can have food packaging of cardboard instead of plastic. Much of what is currently being done by oil-based raw materials could be done by materials from forests and from forest ecosystem services, that is, nature's free services. The forest also acts as a carbon sink and has a smoothing effect on temperature, precipitation and runoff. A real forest also contains a rich biodiversity. The Forest Board has in a recent report compiled a list of the 30 most important services the forest offers us people. It is an interesting and important reading to increase knowledge about all the values of the forest and for us to know how to manage the forest so that we can continue to enjoy all these services. The key to how forests must be managed and used is that forest ecosystems maintain their ecological function, biodiversity and production capacity. Today's use of the forest must not deteriorate tomorrow. There we still have a long way to go in terms of both protecting more forest and changing to more nature-related forestry. Mr President, I would like to It is important to keep track of history when debating politics. This also applies to forestry policy. On Easter weekend I had time to read a book that has been on my bedside table for a while: South on my own legs: the way back after the crisis of Pär Fornling. It is an interesting book about Södra Skogsägare and the Swedish forestry policy from the late 70s to today. In particular, the description from the early 1990s, where many of today's debates have their roots, is interesting. At that time we still paid forest owners a forestry fee, a fee that with today's rateable value would be about SEK 4 billion. Forestry was highly regulated, with a dominant production interest. Those forest owners who wanted to save deciduous trees and use methods other than horticulture, or completely refrain from felling, could be prosecuted. Gigantic palate spread out into the Swedish forest landscape. The environmental movement acted and protested in Sweden and the rest of the world. Swedish forestry did not take a high course. Large paper buyers and consumers threatened with buy boycotts in Sweden and abroad. It was then that forest owners' interests that Södra Skogsägare, the environmental movement and politics joined forces. We got a new forestry team with two equal goals, environment and production. The regulations were removed, and we were given freedom under responsibility as forest owners. In return, forest owners promised to voluntarily protect valuable forests. The environmental certifications FSC and PEFC were introduced. Mr President, I would like to Today, 63% of the productive forest land is certified in FSC or PEFC. As an environmental friend, you can have a different opinion about how the Swedish certification works. But as a politician, I think you should stay out of certification. It's not our job to control it. However, I look forward with great interest to the new, updated certification rules for FSC, which are reported to be coming later this spring. Their strengthening is important both for improving the state of our forests and for the reputation and profitability of the Swedish forest industry. Mr President, I would like to Today's debate is, among other things, about key biotopes and about their inventory, registration and protection. A key biotope is an area with a special nature type that is of great importance to the endangered and red-listed species of the forest. The Swedish Forest Board has surveyed key biotopes since the 90s to a greater or lesser extent. During spring 2017, a break was made with the inventory and registration in northwestern Sweden. But the work has now been resumed after a new inventory method has been developed together with the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the county administrative boards. It will be tested in 2018 and then evaluated and possibly adjusted. It has been said earlier in this House that there is no legal ban on the harvesting of key biotopes today. But key biotopes must not be harvested on FSC certified land, and many timber buyers also do not want to buy wood from key biotopes, simply because consumers do not want to buy it. The bourgeois opposition and the Swedish Democrats apparently see this as a problem, just as they see it as a problem to invest in increased production of organic food in Sweden despite increased consumer demand. Mr President, I would like to As a consumer, you should feel confident that the certification requirements are met. As a Swede, you should feel confident that valuable forests are protected. Since the 1990s, the state has helped private forest owners with inventory and registration, but in the absence of funds much remains to be done. The Government will therefore commission Skogsstyrelsen to make a nationwide inventory. The Green Party also believes that forest owners with very key biotopes on their land should be entitled to compensation regardless of whether they are certified or not. The Government has therefore allocated an extra SEK 250 million per year to this for ten years. Mr President, I would like to Protecting key biotopes is a form of forest protection. Some are done voluntarily through the certification, and some are done through biotop protection in collaboration with the Swedish Forest Agency. Conservation agreements, nature conservation areas, national parks and Natura 2000 are other forms of protection that exist today. Parliament's objective, which was adopted under the alliance government, is that 20 percent of the productive forest should be protected. It is based on the Strategic Plan, the Nagoya Protocol, adopted in 2010 under the UN Convention on Biological Diversity. There's still a bit to go. According to our authorities, only barely 5% of the productive forest land has statutory protection. The protection is also very unevenly distributed. Large areas of coniferous forests near the mountain chain are protected, while about 2 per cent are protected in the rest of Sweden. During the alliance government, the Riksdag decided on a milestone for forest protection. The formal protection of forest land will increase by about 150 000 hectares and the voluntary provision of forestry by 200 000 hectares by 2020. But none of the two objectives will be achieved by the current pace of protection. As far as formal protection is concerned, some 90 000 hectares remain. There's two years to go by 2020. The pace must therefore be stepped up. The government has therefore allocated more money for forest protection, that is, twice as much money as during the time of the alliance government. The problem of the Alliance government then, and the Alliance's problem now, is that, although it has decided to increase forest protection, it is apparently not prepared to pay the forest owners. When the Green Party and the Social Democrats took over the government, the forest owners were in line for compensation. Many of them had been in line for many years. Now it's being grazed. Forest owners receive their compensation, and the pace of protection has increased. Not more forms of protection are proposed in the report by the bourgeois parties, but money is proper for the forms of protection that exist today. But, Mr President, protecting forests is not enough to meet national and international environmental objectives. A transition to sustainable use of forest land is also necessary. In addition to protecting 17 percent of biologically valuable and representative forest areas by 2020, Sweden has undertaken to also manage areas used for sustainable forestry to ensure the conservation of biodiversity. It is therefore not only about leaving untouched areas but also about managing the forest that is managed in other sustainable ways. Trakthyggesbruk has been applied in Sweden on a large scale since the 1950s and has brought revolutionary changes to the Swedish forest landscape. Forests of different kinds of trees of different ages have been replaced by plantings of trees of the same age. The Green Party wants to see farming methods that create forests with diverse trees, leaves and leftover dead wood. Non-poor forestry practices should be promoted, as they have great benefits for biodiversity, outdoor life, tourism, reindeer nutrition and cultural values. Interest in clean forestry is growing. I'm glad to hear that. At the same time, however, it is still a very small part, only a few per cent, of the productive forest land that is managed using non-hygetic forestry methods. The Government has therefore doubled the Swedish Forest Agency's funding for advice on level-free forestry methods. The Green Party also believes that those forest owners who want to switch from woodland to woodland-free forestry should be able to receive conversion aid, just as it is now possible to obtain aid for conversion from conventional to organic farming. The Green Party also believes that the state should set an example in its forestry. Therefore, the Fortifications Agency and the National Property Board have been tasked with making more use of their forests with clean methods. The Green Party believes that Sveaskog should also be given a renewed assignment and a reduced yield requirement. Sveaskog is Sweden's largest forest owner and should take the lead in terms of both protection and sustainable forestry. We have debated this in Parliament in the past. With that pass to the responsible on and for Sveaskog I end.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-959	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Stina Bergström, for your speech. It is always interesting to listen to Stina Bergström. We disagree on a lot, but there are some things on which we will hopefully also agree. One thing that we agree on, on which I was pleased to hear Stina Bergström lift up, is precisely the potential to use the forest to leave the fossil era and transform into a bio-based society. At the same time, this is the fundamental problem of the Green Party, in my opinion, dishonest rhetoric. The rhetoric is very much about leaving the fossil and increasing the pace of climate change, but once it comes to the end, you never hesitate to impose restrictions and constantly prioritise increased protection. One always seems to turn a blind eye to the fact that every hectare of sheltered forest is a hectare that can become renewable fuels and cannot become textiles that can replace polyesters, which also cause major problems with microplastics. It is high time for the government, especially for the Green Party, to settle with the rhetoric that is not entirely connected. That's what we Moderates and the Alliance want. We want to review the forms of protection and we want to see if it is possible to develop contractual solutions to achieve the objectives set. But it's interesting that for the Green Party, methods mean goals. It is the clean in itself that is a goal for Stina Bergström. For me, it's high natural values. We have seen that voluntary work creates the high natural values. Forest farmers' freedom under responsibility has delivered everything that Stina Bergström wants in the form of more leaves, more dead wood and so on. Does Stina Bergström see forestry primarily as an opportunity or as a risk?
i-16549c8b2ba66885-965	Mr President, I would like to Of course, forests and forestry are a great opportunity. Just as Johan Hultberg says, forestry is needed when we change to a sustainable society. There is a large amount of biomass available in forests. Today we use a lot of the raw material from the forest to paper pulp, and much of the raw material is exported. 80% of our forest products are exported abroad. When it comes to the use of the raw material from the forest, it is obvious that more should be done, but the raw material should also be used in a smarter way. I am from Värmland, and a few weeks ago I was at Stora Ensos's paper mill in Skoghall. We received information about, among other things, their work with a new milk pack, a so-called green box. It's made of unbleached sulphate pulp. There are fewer stocks compared to conventional milk packaging, and this means that you can use 25 percent less material in the cartons. It is important when we talk about the bioeconomy and the future. It is about the positive thing about forestry and new technologies.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-968	Mr President, I would like to I cannot help but marvel at the enormous, yes, self-confidence that may be expressed by Stina Bergström and the Green Party. First of all, it is Stina Bergström who knows best what methods the foresters should use. Then, at this turn of the line, I learn that it is not the market or the companies that know best what to use the resources for. It sounded at Stina Bergström that it is a problem that it becomes paper and that we have a large export industry based on the Swedish forest. I think this is a strange approach, an approach that concerns me. It is also recognised from the discussions at EU level, where there is talk of a cascade principle. Political direction should be given to where the raw materials should go. I believe that this is a dangerous path to embark on, so it would be very welcome if the Green Party's Stina Bergström could clearly say: No, it is not the policy's task to control the raw materials. It is the policy's task to provide long-term conditions for forestry to develop and deliver both biodiversity and more material for the bio-based economy. I would like to ask Stina Bergström how she views the fact that the policy of her government contributes to the fact that we are actually slowing down climate change and that Domsjö's major investment is being put on ice. This investment could have helped to produce more textile pulp that could have helped us phase out oil-based products. It could also have helped us tackle the problem of microplastics that I was dealing with, which we know is linked to the use of polyester. Microparticles are released when we wash our oil-based clothes. With the forest, we could have tackled that problem too.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-971	Mr President, I would like to I have to say that it feels strange when Johan Hultberg says that this government is slowing down climate change. I do not believe that there is a government that has done so much to reduce emissions and speed up climate action. Johan Hultberg may remember that last June we produced a new climate law, a new climate policy framework, in this House. Johan Hultberg himself was involved in negotiating this. I'm proud of that. The h is the government has made over 50 different contributions to the climate. Forests are an important part of the climate, but we must not forget that forests have other important functions for both climate and biodiversity. What we talk about when we talk about forest protection – I find it strange, and I will come back to it in this debate – are objectives that have been decided in Parliament for how many additional hectares to protect, statutory and voluntary. Those targets were adopted under the alliance government, and these are the targets that our government is trying to achieve by 2020. There's two years left. There are still 90 000 hectares to protect by law, and that is why we have allocated more money so that forest owners can be paid for this. The objective of the voluntary protection of 200 000 hectares, which we decided in Parliament under the alliance government, is not achieved either. Eskil Erlandsson, who was a minister at the time, may tell us in his speech how to achieve that goal.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-974	Mr President, I would like to Ownership and use go hand in hand with me. What someone owns manages and manages it, too. For me as a center party, ownership is not only constitutionally protected – as it is – but also a fundamental right that I think somehow lives in the Swedish people's soul. It is also a guiding principle too much in our society. We believe that the Swedish forest should continue to be cared for and used according to the principle of freedom under responsibility, i.e. that what someone owns has the right of use over but also responsibility for. We are therefore convinced that it is possible for the policy to promote the development of the forest industry and, at the same time, not only to preserve but also to develop biodiversity in our country. Why am I saying this? Because forests are so extremely important for the Swedish economy, for jobs in the Swedish countryside and for the production of renewable energy, for example. But it is also crucial for us to be able to face the climate threat and live up to, for example, the Paris Agreement. It is therefore important that the forestry industry has the right conditions in the future and that the conditions are long-term, considering that few businesses and industries have such heavy investments in the bottom. Part of moving forward in this work – which I actually believe we agree on in general in this House – is that the government is able to present it as the alliance government and I personally started, namely a national forest programme in which we can give the Swedish forestry industry the opportunity to continue to develop. The current government has now been engaged for almost four years in continuing the work that began about five years ago – without having been able to present such a programme. I think it's bad. The program should be there by now. It still shines with its absence. Why am I talking so much about ownership and use, Mr President? Well, in forestry today – which we can often read about in various media – there is a land invasion that leaves the forest owner incredibly powerless. What could be the reason for this? Yes, it is because, among other things, the Swedish interpretation of the Species and Habitats Directive and the Birds Directive has been incorporated into the Species Protection Regulation and, as interpreted by our authorities, it gives the authorities the right to impose restrictions on land without replacing the landowner for it. This has enormous economic consequences for the landowner, who can no longer use his land. Forced removals which limit the ownership of forest land but also other land should not be allowed in cases where compensation is not paid at the time of infringement. The Center Party therefore wants the landowner to receive financial compensation in the event of land infringement that restricts ownership or production-oriented forestry. We also want, in response to a question raised, a comprehensive review of various forms of compensation in order to enable the landowner to receive compensation easily and effectively when creating site protection that restricts production-oriented forestry. Mr President, I would like to We can say that the earth and the forest are Sweden's green gold. The production of the soil and the forest leads to enormous climate and environmental benefits, not only for us but indeed for the whole world, because we export so much of what is produced by the soil and the forest of our country. That is why it is very important that we give rural areas the right tools to carry out modern agriculture and forestry and to take a concerted approach to the business opportunities that, in turn, can lead to jobs in all parts of our country and so that we can, as soon as possible, move to the bio-based, or as someone called it, fossil-free society that I think we all want to achieve. A big gain with Swedish forestry policy is that so far we have actually been quite in agreement on the overall principles and regulations. On the whole, we have agreed on the dual and equal objectives, the environment and production, and also in different ways on the starting points of legislation, namely freedom under responsibility. But now this is starting to slip in a way that has forced us to push through four sharp announcements to the government in order to achieve what I think we all agree on: to preserve the principle of freedom under responsibility on which we, as we have said since the beginning of the 1990s, have agreed. Mr President, I would also like to endorse Amendment No 9, except that I naturally support the statements made in the committee's report.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-986	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Erlandsson, for your speech. In part, Eskil almost sounded like a social democrat when he stood there talking about the importance of the forest, what needs to be done and so on. Eskil spoke of four sharp announcements. As I said in my speech, these are announcements on issues that the government is actually working on. Let's talk about what Eskil was on about property rights and the mountain forest. A number of forest owners in Sorsele in my home county Västerbotten have been forced to sue the state. If it now turns out that ownership is under threat because of the rules and legislation that the Center Party and Eskil Erlandsson themselves were involved in pushing through, I ask: is this the fault of the current government? What is it you really want from the Center Party, in addition to conducting some form of trench war against the government? That's what you actually do. This government is trying to sort this out and find out which part of the legislation we need to change for it to work.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-988	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Isak From, for the question! I believe, like Isak From, and I also said this in my speech, that we very much agree on Swedish forestry policy and how it should be. Isak From's problem, however, is not his own party but, as on a number of other issues, his fellow governments, which I believe has a largely different agenda. The reason why we want to push forward in terms of compensation is that today, I say, a number of forest owners are sleepless at night with concerns about not being able to pay their bills and not being able to answer the question from the bank whether they own something or really do not. It's just, Isak From, that it's the government that has the Rule of Government in its hand– it's not the opposition in parliament. It is the government's duty to give instructions to its own authorities on how to deal with things. Your government has so far not done so in a number of replacement cases.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-991	Mr President, I would like to It is quite clear, as I said in my speech, that our authorities are following Swedish law. It's pretty clear. What Kammarkollegiet is doing right now is reinterpreting the legislation that Eskil was involved in pushing through with the bill Borders in the forest, where it was highlighted that special measures need to be taken in relation to the mountain forest. It says word for word: a mountain forest refers to forest within the mountain area where forestry measures can affect interests that are of vital importance for nature conservation, cultural conservation or reindeer farming, or there are special conditions for forest management. This introduced Eskil Erlandsson's government into the legislation, and it now interprets the Swedish Forest Board and Kammarkollegiet from the Änok ruling on what kind of compensation can be paid. That is the basis for this. And the foundation is also that forest owners should be entitled to compensation. That's why this government has increased the compensation. It is therefore very problematic for the Center Party when it proposes sharp reductions in the same area. The Center Party is simply not credible on this issue.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-994	Mr President, I would like to If a government does not like and stand for what one of its authorities does, it is the government's duty to give instructions to the authority on how to have it on a matter. If this does not help, it is the government's duty to go to Parliament and request a change of law. As far as financial compensation is concerned, I said in my speech, and it has also been said on several previous occasions in other contexts, that we want a different remuneration model. In addition, we have a number of state land that is exchangeable, so to speak, so that the individual forest owner does not suffer from the land invasions that are sometimes necessary for the development and preservation of biodiversity.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-996	Mr President, I would like to Eskil Erlandsson spoke very much and warmly in his speech that forest owners should receive compensation when they have very valuable forest on their land. I think that sounds very good. Nevertheless, I have to ask briefly about something that Isak From was also on the last line. The government now allocates 1.3 billion a year to replace forest owners. The Center Party cuts in its shadow budget 70 percent of this compensation, SEK 868 million. So as a forest owner, if I were to be sleepless at night, perhaps I would do so out of concern that there would be a change of government so that the Center Party would come to power and cut down the compensation to the forest owners.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-999	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Stina Bergström, for the question! I believe that I have answered the question, both in my speech and in the previous line, but I shall repeat the answer. We are proposing a new replacement model on the part of the Center Party. It must evolve. It is possible to compare with leases or leases of use, so that the cost of a set aside protected area is reduced. In addition, the state has incredibly large land in different parts of the country, which is partly owned by a state-owned, very large limited liability company. The state also owns very large areas directly through the National Property Board and the Fortifications Agency, which should be useful to ensure that the individual forest owner is not financially affected by provisions of protected land in our country.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-1001	Mr President, I would like to Using replacement land to change land is something that the Green Party thinks has been very good, and the government is now investigating whether a new package of land change could be made for those landowners who would rather have new forest parcels than replacements. I have to say that I am still a little concerned, also as a forest owner, when Eskil Erlandsson says that the cost is lower with new forms of compensation. Today, as a forest owner, I get 25 percent more than what the forest shift is valued for when I set aside land for a nature reserve. So should I receive less compensation with the new forms of compensation that you think should be investigated?
i-16549c8b2ba66885-1003	Madam President, I would like The answer is no to the direct question. In our intended compensation model, you will receive an annual compensation for the land you renounce, as opposed to the one-off compensation you receive, which, moreover, today is largely lost to tax when you dispose of any private property. So it is not a question of reducing the remuneration actually paid to you, but it will be paid for a long time instead in the form of an usability agreement, which we can call lease agreements.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-1004	Madam President, I would like When I listen to the speeches in this debate, particularly from the bourgeois side of politics, I wonder whether it would not have been more appropriate to call this report forestry policy rather than forestry policy. It is a one-sided focus on the conditions of forest owners and forest companies. I would first like to say to Johan Hultberg from the Moderates, Martin Kinnunen from the Swedish Democrats and Eskil Erlandsson from the Center Party that I fully understand that individual traders or forest owners can sometimes get caught up in the interpretation of laws. Such problems need to be addressed. There are several proceedings that we all know about in Swedish courts. But this is not the big challenge for Swedish forestry policy. The big challenge for Swedish forestry policy is not about how forest companies will have greater freedom to cut down forests in Sweden. No, the big challenge is more about how we can better care for the forest we have, and it is urgent. A few weeks ago, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency presented its review of the work on our 16 environmental quality objectives. Living forests are, as you know, one of these environmental quality objectives. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency notes that, with current policies and adopted measures at best, we will achieve 2 of the 16 environmental quality targets by 2020. It is therefore 14 environmental quality objectives that will not be achieved. This also applies to the environmental quality objective of living forests. I believe that this is precisely what this debate should be about: how do we create a forestry policy that fits within the framework that nature has set for us, a policy that enables us to achieve all environmental quality objectives? Remember Prime Minister Stefan Lövven's statement in the 2014 Government Declaration: National environmental objectives must be met. Unfortunately, we are a long way from achieving this objective. As I said, in the area of forests we are far from achieving the environmental quality objective of living forests. Almost daily we get examples of old forests being cut down. People who return to the favorite forest are met by stubble fields. Habitats for endangered species disappear. In Ore skogsriket outside Rättvik in Dalarna, state-owned Sveaskog wants to cut down a large area with very sheltered forest. This is just one example of this problem. It no longer holds that politics leaves the forest wind by wave. The maxim of freedom under responsibility must be abandoned. The Forest Protection Act states that production interests and environmental concerns must weigh equally. But I believe that this has never worked in practice. It is in principle always the production interests that draw the longest straw in Swedish forestry. In this way we have a forest that is certainly high-yielding, but in terms of biological content it is becoming poorer. The forest grows, as you know, so it creaks. But it is timber fields that are spreading, not forests with great biodiversity and a host of life. We in the Left want to tackle this problem, and we have a plan for it. We want Sweden to have sustainable forestry. Let me give you some examples from our plan for this. We want to protect more forest in Sweden, and we need to ensure that it is ecologically representative environments that are protected. It is therefore not only the size that counts, but also the content. We must also make greater demands on voluntary provisions. We want to review the entire forestry legislation. The best thing would be if the forestry law could be included in the environmental code. The idea of freedom under responsibility must be abandoned. In what other important policy areas do we say that operators have the freedom to decide for themselves? Penalties must be introduced for breaches of the compliance rules of the Forest Protection Act. It should pay to do the right thing, but it should also have consequences if you do the wrong thing. We in the Left Party want greater diversity in forestry. We want national support for clean forestry. We also want there to be greater diversity in that more than conifers should be allowed to grow. We want to see more of, for example, deciduous forests and mixed forests. We believe that environmental considerations and general considerations must weigh more heavily. Today, as is well known, it is the interests of production that weigh most. We believe that the logging of forests with high natural values must be stopped. Here the work on so-called key biotopes, i.e. areas with very high natural values, is absolutely crucial. We welcome the fact that Skogsstyrelsen has now resumed the inventory of key biotopes in northwest Sweden. But we ask ourselves why we should not register what we are taking stock of. This is where the government must act. I hereby agree to our reservation 2 that we want the Government to give the Swedish Forest Agency a concrete task not only to inventory but also to register the key biotopes that are discovered. We want to strengthen the consultation process for the final felling of forests. It should not be so that when you come home from vacation is the forest, where you have gone out with the dog or where you have picked blueberries for decades, suddenly turned into a stubble field. The interested parties should always be able to speak out for a planned felling. That is why the consultation process in the environmental code needs to be strengthened. We believe that so-called production-enhancing measures, such as foreign species of trees, stubble mining, fertilisation and ditching, must be regulated much more clearly in the environmental code than is currently the case. Madam President, I would like In this report, the bourgeois parties, supported by the Swedish Democrats, give four missions to the government – four so-called announcements. I believe that these four missions are four examples of opening doors where work is actually already in progress or proposals that simply fall on their own hands. I will comment on only one of these four proposals. It concerns the proposal by the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats to call on the government to review various forms of compensation models for forest owners in the protection of forests. We want to have such a review in order, as I understand it, to create more effective forms of protection. Friend of order, of course, wonders which of the current forms of protection you bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats are dissatisfied with. Please tell me! You also say that protection will be more effective. After all, it implies that protection should simply be improved. But then I must ask you, the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats: How will the protection of Swedish forests be more effective and better with less money for protection? I would also like to ask you: how can Sweden's forest owners receive adequate compensation for the protection that is done with less money? That is the case; I have here a summary of the government's and the Left Party's draft budget, and then we can see the proposal from the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats. There are five nuances of cuts in forest protection – about half of those appropriations. Once again, I would like to ask you – please ask for a reply to my speech and tell us – how we can get better forms of protection with half the money. How can Sweden's forest owners get the compensation they reasonably deserve with half of the money? Madam President, I would like We in the Left Party believe that the forest is a public good. The forest is something we all have a right to. I think that the debate is very much about whether it is the profit interests of forestry companies or the public's right to land that should govern policy. What's the weightiest? In this case, we in the Left Party say that the voice of the public and the environment as such must weigh much heavier than they do today. Therefore, it makes perfect sense for us to criticise the dogma of freedom under responsibility and promote increased funding for forest protection, demand greater transparency in forestry, demand more and more gentle forestry methods, and strive for greater biodiversity and greater social consideration in Swedish forestry policy – yes, in short, work for more sustainable forestry.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-1027	Madam President, I would like I did not intend to ask for a reply to Jens Holm's speech, but he managed to provoke me in his habit. He also asked me a number of direct questions that I might have a chance to come back to. What made me ask for a reply, Madam President, was the fact that Jens Holm did not present the facts and did not spread direct falsehoods about Swedish forestry. Jens Holm claimed that biodiversity and species wealth in Swedish forests are becoming less and less. That's a lie. That's not true, Jens Holm. Virtually all indicators point in the right direction when it comes to biodiversity in Swedish forests, and this development has come from the model of freedom under responsibility that we have today. We see that forested birds are increasing, both in number and because many of the species that were previously seriously threatened have gained better status. We see in particular that the conditions for many of the endangered species have improved – thanks to the fact that today we have more dead wood in the Swedish forests, because we have an increased proportion of older forests and because we have an increased involvement of leaves in the otherwise spruce and pine-dominated Swedish forests. These are indicators that are very important for biodiversity and can be said to be some form of infrastructure, if you like, for a rich biodiversity. I am therefore provoked, to say the least, when Jens Holm spreads this kind of untruth. We may have different views on the way forward and on the measures to be taken, but I think we should stick to the truth. I also think you have to answer the question why you want to abolish the model of freedom under responsibility, Jens Holm, when it is actually the one that has turned the development of the forest into increased environmental considerations, increased voluntary provisions and better environmental considerations.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-1032	Madam President, I would like The Left Party and the Moderates probably have quite different views on Swedish forestry. While I can agree that many forest companies are today trying to take greater account of the environment than they have done in the past, I referred, for example, to environmental quality objectives. We will reach only 2 out of 16 and we will not achieve the environmental quality objective of living forests. I don't really understand where you get the information about the species becoming more and more viable in Sweden, Johan Hultberg – just look at Artdatabanken's latest review and see that it's exactly the opposite. Smartly enough, you're raising the issue of dead wood. That is the case, of course: If you make a skin, it opens up to some new forms of life. That much I can agree with. But the way forestry is carried out today is a final felling of a forest, which can be an old forest with great biodiversity, many different trees and other biotopes. Very often you replace it with a plantation. There it goes from diversity to monolithic. It was good that you requested a reply, Johan Hultberg, because I wondered about your reservation No. 10 Today, it is half a hectare that is the limit for when a notification has to be made. Apparently, you want to raise it so that there will be fewer complaints. As I do the assessment, we will then have less insight into future effects, and I wonder why the Moderates want that. Above all, I wonder what the real limit is.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-1036	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm is absolutely right – we have quite different views on forestry policy. We can agree on that. I think it was good that in his speech Jens Holm was open with the fact that the right of ownership and use weighs featherlight for the Left Party. Jens Holm was clear that the forest is a collective right. It is not something that derives from private property rights, not, but it is clearly something that is everyone's right. I think this is a completely crazy idea, but it is because we have completely different ideological views on these issues. I think it is extremely important to protect private property rights, from a fundamental point of view, but actually also from an environmental and production perspective. I firmly believe that it is thanks to private ownership and the diversity of ownership that we also have a great diversity in use, with different methods and different considerations that are taken into account. I am once again opposed to the description of Swedish forestry provided by Jens Holm. In a final felling, a wide range of considerations are being taken into account, which are becoming larger and increasingly developed. You leave protection zones next to water, and you leave top men, deadwood, important seed trees, and so on. Thus, great consideration is taken in the used forest. As I said, we also see that we get more leaves, which indicates that the monolith that Jens Holm points out is not at all true. On the issue of Moderate reservation No 10, Madam President, we on the Moderate side believe that we should not, in fact, focus unilaterally on environmental issues. We must also look at how we can simplify for forest owners and create the conditions for increased growth. Therefore, we want to look at whether to increase the cut-off limit. We also want to look at the possibility of ditching and other issues that can boost forest growth and provide us with more climate-smart raw materials.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-1041	Madam President, I would like I note that the Moderates do not have their own proposal on how to change the cut-off date. When I look at what other actors in the matter, including those from the forest industry, think, they do not seem to think that this procedure should be changed. I am also surprised by Johan Hultberg's description of Swedish forestry. He says that there is a diversity and a great variety in forestry methods, but I don't recognize it at all. In Sweden, we have a one-sided focus on horticulture with large end-effects. That is why I mentioned in my speech that we need more variation and that at least at first we need to support alternative farming methods, such as continuity forestry, economically. This is much more applied in other countries than in Sweden, so here I think we have something to learn from others. Johan Hultberg has probably read the Constitution and knows for himself that ownership is not unlimited, but there are restrictions on it. That is also why we have compensation for forest owners when reserves or other protections are created. This is quite reasonable, but as I did in my speech, I note that with Moderate politics there will be only half as much financial compensation for forest owners in Sweden as with our policy. If I were a forest owner, I would be very concerned for that reason too.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-1044	Madam President, I would like Let me say that Jens Holm and I have sometimes been in agreement. That is not the case today. Firstly, do you, Jens Holm, stand for constitutional property rights or not? I interpreted your speech as turning to some kind of Stalinist or communist thinking about property rights. Suppose now that Jens Holm or I buy a house and that someone comes and puts a stamp on the kitchen and says: May not be used! Would that be possible in Jens Holm's mind world? In mine, it is absolutely not possible without my being replaced for this. Secondly, I think that mankind's great challenge today is to move from fossil society to fossil-free society. The forest is the key to finding out what we as people and individuals need – everything from fossil-free, bio-based materials to fossil-free fuels and fuels. The forest is a necessity. We must use and use this biological resource. Thirdly, according to the Environmental Code, matters must be examined on the basis of whether or not it is an ongoing activity. Is forestry an ongoing business or not, Jens Holm?
i-16549c8b2ba66885-1049	Madam President, I would like I will begin with the principled question of ownership. Me and the Left Party are behind ownership. It is constitutionally protected and is in the form of government, in the second chapter if I am not mistaken. The ECHR also establishes ownership rights. However, it also states that there can be restrictions on ownership for environmental, health or safety reasons, for example. In the event of such restrictions, as Mrs Erlandsson said, compensation shall be paid to – in this case – the landowner. That is why I am so puzzled by bourgeois politics, including the policy of the Center Party. You want to halve these allowances. With your policy, the protection of property rights is actually getting worse. How are you going to replace the landowners affected by our political decisions on protection and so on? There I think the Center Party and the bourgeois parties are guilty of the answer. I note that in the budget we increase the appropriation for protection of a valuable nature by about SEK 11⁄2 billion. Instead, the Center Party reduces this by SEK 740 million – in principle a halving of this increase. How do you get it together, Eskil Erlandsson? How do you get the protection and protection of the compensation of forest owners with half that money?
i-16549c8b2ba66885-1053	Madam President, I would like I think Jens Holm is a little careless with our form of government. It is urgent general purpose that can restrict property rights. I am quite convinced that an overwhelming majority of the Swedish people do not believe that the restrictions on property rights that are now taking place quite frequently in different parts of the country are about so-called general urgent purposes that are protected. I am quite convinced of this, Madam President. This means that I have to ask once again whether the Left Party and Jens Holm really stand up for what is fundamental in our democracy and in our welfare: that if you have something you can also use it and use it. In addition, talking about putting forestry policy and management of forests under the environmental code risks creating a morass of boredom similar to what just as many people in our country have experienced in terms of hydropower and the use of water, which man has been doing for centuries. Now it will be examined whether this is an ongoing activity or not. The same applies to the forest. Jens Holm : Is it an ongoing business or not? Can I use what I own or not? Finally, in response to your question, for the third time, I say that we want to examine other forms of compensation, such as access rights agreements, so that annual compensation is paid. We think it's better for everyone.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-1058	Madam President, I would like With all due respect for what Eskil Erlandsson says, I do not know whether he washed his ears a little poorly this morning or whether he is just a little disrespectful when he treats my answers. I said that we fully support what is in the form of government and the European Convention on Property Rights. But what is the subject of this discussion is how we replace or compensate the forest owners affected by political decisions. I think it is very important that we can replace them in a fair way. Unfortunately, we will not be able to do that with your policy, Eskil Erlandsson, because it will only be half as much compensation as with current policies. I think that there is a major problem with respect for property rights. I also think there is a problem in Eskil Erlandsson's discussion to the extent that, for example, I did not hear the word To be honest, I hear a lot of floats about sustainability and other things but not a single concrete proposal on how we can actually increase sustainability and variation in Swedish forestry. At least that was the spirit of my speech. It is quite obvious that we have a slightly different view of how Swedish forestry is conducted today. We see a little differently what the challenges are and what needs to be done. But I am firmly convinced that if we do not stay within the limits that nature sets for us, we will never achieve the environmental objectives that both you and I and our parties are behind.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-1062	Madam President, I would like It feels great to get into this engaging debate. That it is engaging I can understand, because of course I and most other people in Sweden have a personal relationship with the forest. We see it as an obvious freedom and right to be able to use the forest for outdoor life and, as has been mentioned here, to pick mushrooms and berries and perhaps just be in simply. Experience tourism with the forest as its starting point is also a growing industry. People care about the forest, and then there will, of course, be an engaging debate. It is about the right of public access and its role in a public health perspective. Madam President, I would like We must not forget that forests also play a very important role in the Swedish economy. There are, of course, conflicts here when it comes to preserving biodiversity and so on, but this must somehow be combined. In terms of biodiversity, more than half of the endangered species are linked to the forest. Forest work plays a central role in preserving biodiversity and important ecosystems for man. More specifically, the central role of forests in combating climate change has been emphasised. It is about both the growing forest and what we usually call substitution, i.e. replacing substances of fossil origin with biomass from the forest. Research on construction, fuel, chemicals and textiles has developed a lot in recent years. As Johan Hultberg mentioned, it must be ensured that the forest raw material exists in the long term, otherwise the investments will not be made. This was a good example that Johan Hultberg mentioned. Madam President, I would like As I said, there is a conflict of objectives, but I think we need to be able to resolve it, because we still need to see the forest as our great opportunity. I understood that Jens Holm and the Left Party reject the two equal goals of forestry policy, production targets and environmental objectives. But for us Liberals, they are a central part of our policy, and we must stick to them. I believe and hope that there is a broad consensus on this in essence. Both the state and forest owners have a far-reaching responsibility to protect forest ecosystem services, preserve biodiversity and safeguard nature conservation and environmental protection. When it comes to protecting the environment and nature conservation, there is often a very black or white discussion about the practice of horticulture, that it is one or the other. On the Liberal side, we have previously highlighted, and I would like to do so again, the importance of more research into different felling methods and to realise that in one area one felling method may be appropriate while another felling method may be appropriate in another area. It is not so stupid, as Jens Holm put it, but one must be able to have diversity in this case too. As far as the protected area is concerned, we are probably quite in agreement. In addition, we have signed international agreements on the need to increase it. It is then a question of finding effective systems for this and with great respect for property rights. As has been said here, it is not just a matter of surface area, it is also a question of quality in the areas that are set aside and that they are representative of protection. From the Liberals' side, we have pointed out that the remaining natural forests and old forests must be given appropriate protection. That is something that we have also prioritised in our draft budget. On the issue of responsibility, there is talk of breaking open doors. But we can surely agree that it is the government that has the responsibility to conduct politics, change and govern the authorities. As an opposition party, we Liberals take on the responsibility of identifying the problem and putting forward proposals on how to possibly change things. It is on this basis that the Liberals are behind the four announcements here today. As I said, you can talk about breaking open doors, but at the end of the day it is still the result that counts and not the preparation work. I think it can be interpreted as a little impatience to come forward on this issue. When it comes to the inventory of key biotopes, it is, of course, absolutely right to acquire knowledge, and we in the Liberals fully support that. But what the announcement is about is the classification of key biotopes and that it must take account of local and regional conditions so that it does not have unreasonable consequences. The Left Party mentions that the key biotopes are not registered, but we still have to try to see what the consequences are. When it comes to the Species Protection Regulation, the Swedish Forest Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency have asked for clarifications on the area and how it could be applied in a legally secure way in Swedish forestry. That, of course, has to do with ownership. The uncertainty and unpredictability of the system for a forest owner must be eliminated. In order to achieve sustainable forestry, we need to have a regulatory framework that makes it worthwhile to care for our forests. In order to preserve biodiversity, there must be a good incentive structure to care for their forests. It must not be the case, as the system is now, that you as a forest owner care for your forest and achieve great environmental values but feel that you cannot harvest your forest. It is absurd that it is not just a hearsay but that, as a forest owner, you decide to harvest forests prematurely. Just the risk that a key biotope might occur means that you simply do not dare to harvest forests, because the regulations are so unpredictable. Then this with replacement models. We are constantly getting stuck in the budget appropriations for the next few years. From what I have heard so far in the debate, I think we are talking past each other. When we talk about more efficient models, it is about getting long-term models, such as usability agreements, to obtain protection that is appropriate at different times. If you have a lease agreement for one area and the area for some reason no longer meets the requirements, you can actually change the area and rent someone else's area. I do not think we should get caught up in this that we should always have the same system but raise our eyes a little and try to develop new systems. Here I can make a direct connection with the Liberals' reservation No 6 in the report, which I would also like to support. There we point out precisely that the state-owned forest could be used as an exchange forest for the protection of privately owned forests. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency sees this as a cost-effective and fast way to protect forests. It is a method which was established during the time of the alliance government but which has now stopped. We now want to develop this method and see the state forest as an asset in this context. Madam President, I would like Perhaps I should have started with this, but now I will end with it instead. I would really like to highlight forest owners as key people in this context, not least because it is the forest owners who know their own forest and are aware of the purpose of the rules of consideration that apply to them and what they lead to. I am fundamentally convinced that there is a consensus that general consideration is not always enough but that there must be protected land and so on. However, it is important that we get a regulatory system so that you as a forest owner feel that it is predictable how to deal with this. This applies to both investments and how to grow your forest forward. It is in this perspective that both the announcements and the reservations we have in the report should be seen.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-1082	Madam President, I would like It was interesting to have some explanations of the announcements made by the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats in the report. I can't say I've been convinced, but it was good that Lars Tysklind tried to tell me a little more. I intend to dwell on reservation 14 from the Liberals. It's entitled, "Reimbursement for public goods." I also mentioned this with the fact that the forest can give us so much and should be valued accordingly, so here I see that we have a certain consensus. However, I have two specific questions for Lars Tysklind: How will the Liberals finance these new public goods compensations when you have SEK 438 million less in your draft budget than the government has in its budget for the protection of a valuable nature? Liberals also say that plant varieties, farming methods, nutrients and other things can be adapted to local conditions. That sounds interesting, and I take it that you want more variation in forestry. How do you want this increased variety in forestry? Is it, for example, through political decisions and changes to the Forest Protection Act? Are you prepared to provide support for continuity forestry, i.e. more selective forestry, so that you can have this variety, or how do you reason?
i-16549c8b2ba66885-1087	Madam President, I would like I start with how to get a more varied forestry. Perhaps I was a little unclear when I talked about logging methods. I think it is important to invest in research in this area. As usual, the Left Party is caught up in the need to support activities with grants, but we are looking forward to being able to get profitable methods by raising knowledge. When it comes to which species and how to deal with this, it is largely not a political issue, but a question of freedom so that knowledge can be brought forward and used. As far as public goods are concerned, it is a general approach that we have, perhaps primarily, with regard to agricultural policy. We are very much in favour of shifting the focus from the first pillar to the second pillar. You should not go in and support production but contribute to public goods where you make efforts that are fundamentally unprofitable but that benefit biodiversity and nature conservation in general. This also applies to forestry policy. But the focus of our discussion has been on agricultural policy.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-1089	Madam President, I would like I thank Lars Tysklind for his answers. On the question of whether you intend to give new support to public goods, the answer is no, it is to be financed by someone else, namely the European Union. On the question of how to get more variation in forestry, which is really an important grant, the answer is that it is a hope that forest owners will conduct a more varied forestry. I have a supplementary question. Why have you raised a motion for more variation in forestry, and you are quite specific in some things that you raise, when there is no political governance whatsoever in your motion, but just an appeal?
i-16549c8b2ba66885-1091	Madam President, I would like That was a very simplistic view of my answers. Probably I expressed myself unclearly because Jens Holm has interpreted what he wants. As far as public goods are concerned, this is a shift in aid, and here the EU is also involved. But the rural programme can be used in different ways, and we think it should shift towards this type of environmental measure. It is a re-prioritization of money that exists. Regarding variations in forestry, the error is often political governance. Jens Holm may fail freedom under responsibility, but for us a lot is based on it. As I have said, we believe very much that research and knowledge building can provide other profitable methods for forestry. But as politicians, we cannot, of course, talk about exactly how this is to be done.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-1094	Madam President, I would like It was fun to listen to Lars Tysklind's speech. I was pleased that a representative of the bourgeois spoke about environmental considerations and the international agreements that we all support. But then I got a little perplexed. I am also trying to get this right with the forms of compensation and that they must be reviewed. Today we have nature reserves, national parks, biotopes protection and conservation agreements. Is it any of these forms of protection that the Liberals want to remove and replace with something else? Let's look at the biotop protection. Today, about 15% of forest owners have at least one key biotope on their land. Of them, 1 - 2 per cent have more than 5 per cent key biotopes and have a key biotopic property. In the certification it is that you should save 5 percent, so if you are certified you should still save so much. But if you have more than 5 percent, it can feel like you are affected because you have many key biotopes on your properties. This has been noted by the government and therefore allocated 250 million more per year for ten years to enable these forest owners to receive this compensation. This does not have the Liberals and the other bourgeois parties in their budgets. How do you think about biotopes, for example?
i-16549c8b2ba66885-1099	Madam President, I would like What is important is that we have a variety of replacement models, so that we can use the most appropriate model at that particular time. The state must own the land in national parks, so it is regulated and clear. However, in the case of nature reserves and other restrictions on the right of use, a flexible and dynamic system of compensation is important. Eskil Erlandsson referred to fixed-term access rights agreements, and that is something that we think we should be able to introduce. It is not clear that the old systems must be replaced. Their use can be reduced and other systems used. We do not limit how many models you can have, but our idea is that you have a diversity so that there are well adapted compensation systems for that particular occasion. I understand that there have been some discussions on this during the preparation of the forestry programme. It is a pity that one has stuck and not moved forward and has taken that discussion forward or landed in it. At the last turn of the line and at this point, we are constantly talking about budget appropriations rather than thinking about how we can reasonably ensure protection in the future, so that we get a reasonable level of budgetary management and yet can achieve protection. On the total, it won't be cheaper. But you can spread it over time and have different systems.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-1105	Madam President, I would like Of course, you can basically have more compensation systems. I don't think it seems completely wrong. However, I am still trying to understand what additional systems we have that we would need. Again– it can of course get nagging to talk about the budget. But in the end it boils down to being about money. No forest owner will be happier with ten different compensation systems instead of five if you have half as much money in the ten than you had in the five, if Lars Tysklind understands what I mean. So I still don't understand. I had a change of line with Eskil Erlandsson where he meant that they should pay the forest owners per year instead of getting a lump sum. I've been paid myself once I've put land in the nature reserve. I thought it was pretty good to get a lump sum. Then I could buy another forest, in another place, for that money instead of getting a smaller sum every year for the same land. But, okay, if you do that, how could it be as much money for forest owners... if you don't have a lot of money either?
i-16549c8b2ba66885-1108	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to point out that this, protection of a valuable nature and, not least, of forests, is one of the areas that we in the Liberals prioritise in our draft budget. Public funds are needed to cover certain types of protection where lump sums are actually to be paid. I may not have to explain what Eskil Erlandsson means, but this matter of getting money per year is really about getting compensation for the yield that is lost in the use of the forest. And you get that compensation over time. I want to be able to go one step further and have a discussion on the agreements, which are time-limited. If for some reason the forest shows that it is changing so that it does not meet the high values, one can actually move and lease some other forest nearby that reaches the high values. So there are many possibilities if we are just open to seeing other models. It may be that Stina Bergström thinks it is good to get a lump sum, and then one can well discuss it. Other forest owners may want other models in relation to their ownership. Maybe they'd rather have an annual compensation. What I and the Liberals think is important is that we are open to discussing this issue. Now we are not discussing the budget – we are doing so in the autumn – but we often get caught up in how big the budget allocation should be instead of looking at the methods.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-1113	Madam President, I would like I agree with all our reservations in the report, but for time to come, I am in favour of only reservation 12. Today we have a debate on forestry policy. When I sometimes walk around here in Parliament with school classes, we always stop at the entrance, this magnificent hall that was once built for Sveriges Riksbank. You look up at the ceiling, you see motive. Those of you who have been there have seen them. On one of them, at the bottom, you can see Sweden's grain shed – Skåne. The grain was important in those days and is certainly important now too. If you look at the other side, you see motifs from Norrland. I don't know exactly where, but at least they're breaking ore. I usually talk to the students about that somewhere in the middle there should be a painting of forest that is being felled. Because it is important for our country. Swedish forestry, if anything, is important. It has a turnover of as much as SEK 220 billion, and about 70 000 people have their work in the forest. Sweden has about 330 000 forest owners with an average ownership of approximately 45 hectares of forest land. About 50 per cent of all forests in Sweden are owned by individual forest owners. That was some facts. However, it is important to highlight this in the debate. There are many of us who own and run a forest property. Nor should we forget the important role that forests play in the environment and climate. The principle that has prevailed for many is that the forest should be managed with freedom under responsibility. It is an important principle on which it should not be applied. The vast majority of forest owners manage their forests on the basis that it will be managed in the best way until the next generation takes over. Is there any trouble? Do we hear that it is troubling around Sweden? Are there any dark clouds in the sky? Yes, if we take part in debates, read in newspapers or are out listening to what people say around Sweden, we can see that many are now concerned that the Red-Green Government is changing. We hear property rights are in danger. Madam President, I would like Right now, an inventory of key biotopes is taking place in all forests. All of Sweden's forests will be surveyed to discover key biotopes, i.e. areas with high natural values. Classification of key biotopes is an unfortunate grey area that does not take into account the different regional conditions in the country. In practice, the key biotop classification means a logging ban because no sawmills buy the timber. What are the consequences? A forest owner whom I met not very long ago told me that he had a shift with a – as he himself said – fantastic forest that he used to walk around in and enjoy. But he said, "But, Magnus, I'm afraid to keep this. Now I've reported it. I was going to keep the forest for my children, because it's so incredibly beautiful. But the inventory will come here. What happens then? Then the forest, which I have intended to use for my children, may not be used that way anymore. So now I'm going to cut it. " He's not the only one. I've heard cases after cases. Last week a man in Aneby told the same story; he is concerned about what is happening. It is therefore important that the Christian Democrats and the Alliance together want the government to work to ensure that the classification of key biotopes is simply converted into a more legally secure and effective model. It is very good that Parliament is now making four announcements. This concerns, for example, what I just mentioned, legal certainty and effective key biotop inventory, as well as the revision of the Species Protection Regulation, long-term conditions for forestry and replacement issues. All this we do in the Alliance to strengthen the individual forest owner, not to overturn it. This, my friends, is the difference between a red-green government and an alliance government.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-1126	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2, which Jens Holm also called for, so that you will understand that we are in the same party. I'll start by telling you why I don't sleep at night. I am concerned that we would fail and not get a national forestry programme in Sweden. If there is any country where such a programme is important, it is with us. That's what I'm sleepless about. Everyone who has talked about forestry here has said something good, I think. Then, of course, there are differences in what I think is good and not in the respective speakers, but everyone has said something that I could agree with. Lars Tysklind talked about target conflicts. Like him, I think it would be a pity if a national forestry programme could not be agreed on in the light of the conflicts that are being painted out here. For us, the national forestry programme is important. You're the pros. You know forestry and have spokespersons for forestry. That's why I'm going to throw out some things that I think you should think about. A lot of people talk about calendering. What's calendering for you? Is it the bare surface, or is it the whole area, where protection zones are planned with different considerations to be taken into account? There's a difference there. I read something that made me almost poof. I hate it when you try to scare people. The Swedish Democrats are professionals at trying to scare people. They tell you how bad Sweden is doing and that everything is going... well, now you shouldn't swear here. It's a little the same thing with what I read. I will quote what one of the spokespersons here in the debate writes in a newspaper: But much remains to be saved. By changing our forestry, agriculture and fisheries in a more sustainable direction, we can preserve our animal and plant species. ..................................................... Name one species that forestry has eradicated! It would be nice to hear if anyone could mention a species that Artdatabanken states has been exterminated due to forestry. Like Jens Holm, Isak and Stina, I think biodiversity is important, and we should try to preserve it with sound methods. But it doesn't get right when you try to scare and say that everything has gone in the wrong direction for 100 years. No one has been able to say that we have eradicated any species, at least not Artdatabanken. I know there are disadvantages. I was a giant villain myself when I started in the woods in the early 80's. I'm not at all proud of everything I've done. But forestry has improved considerably since then. I think it was Johan Hultberg who said that diversity has a bearing on the fact that there are foresters who have done it differently. I agree. Very good things have been done. But this with freedom under responsibility has also led to leaving seed trees where they do not belong at all. It's doomed to fail. At some point you should even have stricter rules on what to do and not. Either you carry out continuous forestry or it will be caleavage. But I feel bad when I see the bad examples in forestry where you have simply cut up your forest. Madam President, I would like I'm sleepless, worried we wouldn't get a forest program in this country.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-1139	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Birger Lahti, for a very interesting summary of this debate! What you're bringing up is incredibly important. It is actually exciting that in one and the same party there are so great differences in how you look at the forest. I know you have a completely different approach here. You've been working and working in the forest business, so you know exactly what you're talking about. Do you know of any species that has been exterminated? You hear a lot from some people about it being eradicated here and there and that there is a terrible lot going on. So I was going to ask you if you know anything that has disappeared because the forest has been cultivated in a certain way?
i-16549c8b2ba66885-1142	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus, for the question! As you say, I'm a third-generation forest worker. I used to be a farmhand. I have not been the owner, but I have been the farmhand of forestry. Now I have two sons who are, and I'm proud of that too. It was said that, for example, the tjäder needs old forest. But I have also been a hunter my whole life and can see that the feather is back in the used forests, timber fields or what you call them. The skier's coming. It's not that easy to get a monotonous forest. The leaves are coming, and that's good. But the feather has arrived. The only thing I can think of is the Warmland Slave, which someone said disappeared. But it is an extreme example, and the only thing that suggests that it disappeared because of forestry is a wild guess that a felling in an adjacent stock killed it in an area. That's all I can think of. But when you read what's written about it, you can see that it needs rock frulania, a moss, to spread out. So there are no answers there either. Then the white-backed woodpecker has been mentioned, but it has come back. Check out the Art Data Bank! There they cannot mention any extinct species by name. I am not saying this because I want to defend that we should be doing as we have been doing for 50 years. That's not what I'm saying. But I'm saying you shouldn't be intimidated and say it's all fucked up. We will try to improve and protect biodiversity. I think we have the tools. But having this battle all the time does not benefit our country. Forestry is important.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-1148	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Birger, for your answer. I can't say anything but that I agree with you. You take up the principle of freedom under responsibility and what it has meant. We know that there are 330 000 forest owners. We know they've done an amazing job. How do you view the future, given the concerns that are highlighted in different ways, both from your own party and from other parties? What does the future look like, as you see it?
i-16549c8b2ba66885-1150	Madam President, I would like Thanks again for the line, Magnus! In some places, freedom under responsibility has certainly worked well, but certainly foresters have made mistakes that the next generation will have to pay for. I have seen examples where some relatives have shared a property. Some of them have been used in the field. They've taken care of the forest. They've culled. They've cleared it. Then others tried to pick but did it the wrong way. Then we wonder that some got 60 000 net per hectare and that others got 10 000 per hectare. Yes, it's the sum of freedom under responsibility that didn't turn out well. At least we have to agree in this country, because forestry is important. I'm not answering any more than that. In some places, I'm sure it's worked out well, but not everywhere.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-1154	Madam President, I would like Now we are going to deal with the Environment and Agriculture Committee's report 19 horizontal environmental issues. While some of the issues dealt with are horizontal, the report could also be referred to as the Other Environmental Issues. So these are issues that do not really fit in with any of the other reports that we are dealing with. The exercise that is being treated comes from the general exercise time last autumn. They span different areas and have a slightly different degree of detail and concreteness. With regard to the proposals on targets for reducing car traffic and increasing accessibility for public transport, pedestrian and bicycle traffic, phasing out environmentally harmful subsidies and integrating Agenda 2030 into environmental objectives – to take some examples – these are issues where work has been done during the mandate and where work is currently under way. A lot of things will never be finished either – you should remember that. I know it's not a very funny answer: that things are prepared within the Government Office or investigated. And it can be frustrating when it comes to urgent issues. But that doesn't make it any less true. The issue of traffic, especially in cities, is an issue that is primarily dealt with by another committee. But it will of course be an important part of both the forthcoming climate strategy and the letter on living cities. The phasing out of environmentally harmful subsidies is ongoing. We have phased out some exceptions, but much work remains to be done. Some reductions and exemptions will probably be difficult to remove without a broader review in some areas. But our direction is clear. We should not subsidise environmentally harmful activities – quite the contrary. We support the polluter pays principle. It is a fundamental principle of environmental policy. The integration of Agenda 2030 is probably an issue that we will have to return to in this House, in the authorities and within the government. It is perhaps not so much because we are approaching 2020, as is written about in the motion, as because it is a broader approach to these issues. But with that said, I think everyone understands that this is a delicate task. The breadth of the way the objectives are formulated is important, but it must not go beyond the stringency that exists in the environmental objectives system. And we need to be careful that the global perspective in the agenda, which is probably so important, does not undermine the Swedish environmental objectives according to the motto that sometimes shows up in these contexts: that we are still too small for what we do to play any role. I'm not saying that would be the Center Party agenda-- I really don't think so. It's the Center Party that wrote the motion. We share the ambition and, as I have just said, I think we will have to return to the issue in different ways and at different levels. This also applies to environmental objectives. Madam President, I would like The report contains two announcements from the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats. The first is to simplify and speed up the processing of permit processes according to the environmental code. A similar announcement was also made last spring, both from this committee and from the Committee on Industry. I think that announcements should preferably not be made routinely. Then it may be important to look at whether something has happened in the area since the last time. It is important to point out that, when we stood here last spring and adopted such a declaration, the report contained a number of initiatives to simplify licensing procedures and shorten processing times. We can also note that new initiatives and decisions have also taken place since then. A number of authorities have been tasked with improving the efficiency of their processing. The Swedish Agency for Growth has had a special task to map the processing times and the long processing times for the consequences for companies' competitiveness and to come up with proposals for improvements. The mission was finalized on February last, and the case is being prepared within the Government Office. Then there are the more specific issues raised in the announcement last spring on so-called green cream files, i.e. that environmental improvement measures should be given a more rapid approach, and that different deadlines should be set according to the type of case. This type of issue is included in the internal investigation that is ongoing in the Government Office and will be completed in September this year. Not least last year, the government proposed changes to the environmental code that we discussed in committee and here in the House last autumn. A new sixth chapter of the Environmental Code was adopted dealing with environmental assessments. The amendments aimed, among other things, to make it clear that environmental impact assessments should only be made when it is environmentally justified. We also made decisions that more clearly define what an environmental impact assessment should be. This is important for the predictability of the operators involved in the licensing processes, both for the companies and for those dealing with the cases. Another change was the distinction between a large and a small environmental impact assessment, with different levels of requirements. It is, of course, expected to have a positive impact on the scope of the investigations in relation to the needs. The changes in the environmental code came into force in January this year. And in this report, when we discussed the government proposal, we signed up as a united committee on the importance of monitoring developments – in the short term, at the latest after three years, in terms of the administration and work of the authorities, and in the longer term in terms of practice when enough decisions have been made at the highest level. Nevertheless, Madam President, the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats are now making another announcement on this issue. Of course, it is understandable that there may be frustration. These are issues that we all encounter when we are out meeting companies and industry organisations. But we must also respect the fact that these are difficult issues and that they take time if we do not want to create new problems. There are also many things that should not be regulated in detail in this House. It may be mentioned that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, other authorities, the mining industry organisation and a number of companies and county boards jointly, under the direction of the Environmental Institute, have developed a manual to facilitate the examination of mining activities, in particular concerning discharges to surface water. It is a good example of cooperation – and there are others – that cannot be managed in detail from this House or from Rosenbad. The awareness that permit processes need to be improved and streamlined is, of course, in the industry but also in government agencies and here with us. The opposition can of course write any announcements they want. But, Madam President, it is a wide-open door that they are trying to break in, as is, in fact, also apparent from their own announcement text. The second announcement, Madam President, is almost the same as one of the announcements dealt with in the previous debate – the one on forest protection compensation models. The announcement in this report is a little broader than that, but if you read the motion on which it is based, you can see that it is primarily about compensation for the protection of forests. Isak From, my colleague, clearly stated our position in the previous debate, that ownership is a fundamental part of our society and that it is protected by the Constitution. There are various legal and analytical proceedings in progress in relation to judgments that are difficult to anticipate. And as has been pointed out a number of times in here, regardless of the remuneration model, money must be set aside for forest owners to receive compensation for the forest that is protected. It has been said a few times that it is a bit sad to talk here all the time about the budget. Of course it can be if you are in the situation that several of the parties here are in: that they have allocated less money to this type of compensation. Of course, it is impossible to exclude that you can find new and better models that also become cheaper for serving money over several years. However, the same debaters have described the situation as very acute and, at the same time, have allocated less money in their budgets. You can think about that. Madam President, I would like With this in mind, I would like to support the parts of the report supported by the Social Democrats.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-1177	Madam President, I would like So we are now having a debate, as previous speaker Sara Karlsson mentioned, on the Environment and Agriculture Committee's report No 19 on the horizontal environment. That, Madam President, is a bit of a good-and-mixed report. Joking aside, it is a rather sprawling report on issues of ecosystem services and subsidies, but above all on permits and permit processes. Last year's report and debate were also dominated by the issues of authorisation. Madam President, I would like Let me begin by returning to last year's report and parliamentary decisions. During last year's debate, I pointed out that environmental assessments are one of the key tools of environmental policy and that the environmental code forms the basis for a comprehensive and integrated environmental assessment that highlights the many different environmental impacts an activity might have. But I also pointed out that the environmental code is far from perfect and that the environmental test is carried out with major problems and shortcomings. Not least, we often have problems with very long processing times. Madam President, I would like It is a problem that we have not got rid of in the past year. The Alliance did much to improve and streamline environmental testing. But that work obviously needs to continue, because we are far from a situation of reasonable processing times. The processing times are a scourge and something that the government must continue to work on. Time-consuming processes provide expensive bills that companies, individuals, taxpayers and not least the environment have to pay. Prolonged licensing processes make investments in Sweden more expensive and cause us to lose competitiveness and tax revenue as well as jobs. In addition, extended licensing processes delay the environment for improving investments in existing plants and delay new activities or, at worst, do not take place at all. Against this background, last year the Riksdag issued an announcement to the Government to take further steps to simplify and shorten permit granting processes in order to create incentives and better conditions for companies that want to take environmental improvement measures in their operations. A little more concrete, it meant approval for two moderate movements that were about trying out the possibility of introducing a so-called green sour cream when handling the condition. It is simply a kind of fast track in the permit process for companies that want to make environmental improvement measures that need environmental permits. This year's report shows that, within the Government Office, and Sara Karlsson mentioned it, an investigation is being carried out into this particular issue, among other things. However, the mission shall be finalized only after the election. With this government, therefore, nothing concrete will happen. That, Madam President, applies quite generally. We simply need a new government to make things happen. Madam President, I would like On the part of the Moderates and the Alliance, we are really keen to create a better functioning and more efficient environmental testing. This report announces to the government a further reform of the licensing process. It can be said to build on last year's announcement in that report and is that permit processes as well as supervision should take better account of the overall environmental impact based on risk-based testing and more effective exercise of public authority. In general, I would like to say that we in Sweden need to be better at making risk assessments and getting to permit and supervisory processes where benefits and costs are proportionate. Recently, we agreed five parties that were behind the energy agreement on how water activities can obtain modern environmental permits. In this work, a very important starting point for the Moderates and other alliance parties was that the licensing process, not least for small-scale water operations and hydropower, would not be too administratively and economically burdensome. We simply need to ensure that our tax resources, as well as the resources of companies and individuals, are properly used and not eaten up by administration and licensing processes, but that resources can be put first and foremost on real environmental measures and value-creating investments. Moderate environmental and climate policy is about the policy having to be effective and results-oriented. Therefore, we will continue to push for the creation of permit processes for environmental permits that are precisely that, effective and result-oriented. Madam President, I would like As I said at the outset, this is a rather sprawling report. Turning now to the report's second proposal for an announcement, it will be a rather sharp throw. The second announcement by a majority of Parliament on the initiative of the Alliance concerns compensation to landowners in the event of restrictions on ownership. Anyone who not only sees and follows this debate but who also followed the previous debate on forestry policy can hardly fail to understand that the Moderates, like the other alliance parties, are very concerned about the position of ownership in Sweden today. We feel that it is increasingly being called into question and undermined. These developments must be reversed. Ownership is fundamental to our society from both a principle and a practical perspective. On behalf of the Moderates, we have, among other things, put forward proposals for a broad ownership inquiry, not least in order to obtain a better and more comprehensive picture of how property rights are being restricted today. However, the announcement that the Alliance now wants to make is more specific and concerns compensation models for restrictions on the use of land that restrict ownership. Madam President, I would like There are times when the right of use due to various urgent public interests needs to be limited, but for the Moderates two things are then self-evident. The first is that it is genuinely urgent public interests that justify the restriction, and the second is that reasonable compensation should be paid to the landowners concerned. Madam President, I would like The Moderates also have a number of reservations of their own in the b ethinking, but for time winning I only ask for the approval of reservation No 8 on ecosystem services. Ecosystem services are all the products and services that nature provides us in the form of air and water purification or in the form of timber production, which we recently discussed. Wood production is an ecosystem service that has a very clear economic value, which is good. However, this is not the case for all ecosystem services. Many ecosystem services are more diffuse and indirect, which means that they are not as self-evidently taken into account in community planning. Valuing such services is difficult but nonetheless important. We therefore want to continue our efforts to clarify the value of ecosystem services in order to make them an integral part of social planning. We cannot and must not take our ecosystems for granted, but we must value and protect them.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-1193	Madam President, I would like We are debating the report 'Overall environmental issues'. It is a somewhat odd report that may not seem particularly exciting, but it is a lot about permit issues and also important property rights issues. When it comes to property rights issues, we welcome the fact that there is a majority in the committee that wants to pass on the announcement. Initially, I would like to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation 4. It addresses the issue of the handling of permit cases. The motion request on which the reservation is based is based, in turn, on the industrial strategy of our party. A new industrialisation of Sweden is needed. The former Moderate Prime Minister's words that industrial jobs have virtually disappeared and his downgrading of Swedish industry can now, thankfully, be placed in a dark part of Swedish political contemporary history. Swedish industry is still invaluable for Swedish jobs, exports and growth. Madam President, I would like We must have high ambitions in the environmental field, and it is of course important that there are laws, regulations and authorities with their bureaucrats who are doing their best to ensure that the legislation is complied with. At the same time, we should be clear that no matter how good our ambitions are with new regulations, there is a conflict of interest. More regulations generally lead to more regulatory problems, which is detrimental to Swedish entrepreneurship and Swedish industry – which in turn is detrimental to our exports, our growth and our jobs. The starting point for regulations in the form of laws, regulations and regulations is that they should only exist to the extent they are needed and be pragmatic. There are now double regulations in which two or more authorities make demands that are in principle overlapping, and there are rules that could in practice be abolished without any negative effect. We want companies to relate and report to as few authorities as possible. Entrepreneurs seeking different permits to expand or open new operations can sometimes get stuck in an administrative loop where cases are intertwined between different municipal actors and authorities without a clear deadline. We must address this problem without, for that matter, compromising our high ambitions in the environmental field. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats therefore want to introduce a longer time limit for case handling and also simplify the handling of appeals. One problem that many industrial entrepreneurs specifically state is that environmental permits for new industrial properties are delayed while business opportunities are very good for example for exports to growing economies. This costs businesses money and society tax revenues and jobs that far exceed the cost of the required number of administrators. We believe that these administrators need to increase, and they should work proactively and helpfully towards companies that want to expand. There must be a better service thinking. In addition, we want to introduce a service pool to simplify the handling of permits by different authorities. Madam President, I would like Environmental legislation today provides unclear information on the burden-sharing of contaminated land, for example in the case of industrial sites where pollution has occurred in the case of closed companies for decades. We want to remedy this by clarifying the current regulatory framework. All in all, the present system all too often creates uncertainty. Precisely uncertainty is one of the worst things for entrepreneurs and investors. The rules must be clear and the processing time must be reasonable and also predictable. Madam President, I would like The majority of the committee has agreed on a proposal in a similar direction. Although we would have liked to have had a more pointed wording, we welcome the proposal. There is ongoing work together, such as the recent changes in the environmental code. There is absolutely reason to look to the future with some confidence.
i-9U8CBnHxztnDYakYJyKXwT	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the Environment and Agriculture Committee's report on environmental issues, which deals with motions from the 2017/18 general period of exercise. The report contains two announcements from the bourgeois opposition. I am not going to spend any time dealing with them, but I think that Sara Karlsson did so in a commendable way. I can only say that I think that one announcement of simplified licensing processes is, of course, only an invitation to the government to do what it is already doing. This also applies to the second notice on compensation in the event of restrictions on ownership. In addition to preparing the question of replacement land and the species protection regulation, the Government has also increased the grant "Protection of a valuable nature". It is the most important factor when it comes to paying compensation because it is difficult to pay out a lot of money with a thin wallet. Madam President, I would like Instead, I intend to devote my speech to raising some other issues raised in the report. I'll start with our environmental objectives. In a party motion, the Centre Party has proposed that the Environmental Targets Committee be tasked with carrying out a broad review and updating of the environmental objectives system. I think the memory is short. This was done by the Alliance government more than eight years ago, and the clearest result of the system being re-established was that we lost momentum in achieving environmental objectives. The big problem with environmental objectives is not that there are no new targets after 2020 or 2025, but the big problem is that we do not achieve the goals we set at the end of the last century and promised that we would achieve within a generation. We will not achieve the goal of handing over to the next generation a society where the major environmental problems are solved without causing increased environmental and health problems beyond Sweden's borders, as the generational goal is formulated. Of the 16 environmental objectives, only two, Protecting Ozone Layers and Safe Radiation Environment, will be achieved in due time. Although the government has stepped up the pace of environmental work, more needs to be done. In this year's evaluation, the Environmental Protection Agency has looked, among other things, at one of the milestones adopted under the Alliance Government, which I mentioned in the previous debate on forestry policy. It concerns the intermediate objective Protection of land, freshwater and marine areas. Among other things, the objective is to protect forests with high natural values from fellings, and this should be done by increasing the formal protection of forest land by about 150 000 hectares of forest land with high natural values and in need of formal protection below the border of mountain forest. The second objective is to increase the voluntary provision of forestry by around 200 000 hectares of forest land in areas that have or may develop high natural values. In its evaluation, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency states that the milestones have not been or have been deemed to be achieved within the required time-frame, with current conditions and without further measures. Both the size of the area and the rate of decision-making need to increase sharply. When the milestone was proposed by the Environmental Objectives Committee, we in the Green Party realised that the target was actually too low. More forests would need to be protected if the environmental objectives of living forests and a rich flora and fauna are to be achieved. It is perhaps a little strange that it is still we who have to fight to achieve the milestone and defend it. Despite the government's doubling of the grant Measures for valuable nature are not achieved the Parliament's objectives. It is clear that more should have been done earlier by the previous government, which set the target, and more needs to be done in the future. If it is to be done, it is clear that the Green Party must be in the government. Madam President, I would like The Liberals have a fine motion in the report that calls for us to tackle climate and environmental challenges with a mix of crisis insight, confidence in the future and realism. That's wise to say. The same applies to the observation that the market economy is not the solution in terms of protection and conservation of nature, the sea and biodiversity, but needs public funding. I think the Liberals should be commended for realizing this. I also hope that Lars Tysklind and his party colleagues will take the time to read the summary in the report of all the budgetary efforts made by the government in this year's budget, ranging from protection of a valuable nature to measures to reduce the amount of plastic in our seas and in nature. In their shadow budget, the Liberals chose to cut most of it from these investments – 2.3 million, 27%, you want to remove. As I said, I think it is a fine exercise request, but I still have to ask the Liberals why it is laid. Liberals and Moderates have a common reservation in the report on ecosystem services. I was very pleased that Johan Hultberg was in favour of that particular reservation, because I think that is a bit promising. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has been commissioned to communicate important ecosystem services, and this is a merit. Early in the month, they sent out their latest report. I wonder if Johan Hultberg has read it. In it we can see how the 30 most important ecosystem services we get from the forest are doing. The status of these services is divided into good, moderate and insufficient. We have previously debated the state of the forest. It was even a leftist who stood in the speaker's seat a while ago and claimed that the state of the forest is probably not so bad. It looks pretty good, and we probably have a forestry that's pretty good. When I look at what the Swedish Forest Board has included in this report, I see that habitats and habitats and biodiversity are two ecosystem services that the Swedish Forest Board writes have the status insufficient. Finally, Madam President, I would like to talk about environmental zones. After all, a few weeks ago the government presented another tool that it intends to give the municipalities in the fight against poor air quality in our cities. Air filled with dangerous particles from car traffic leads each year to the premature death of 3 000 Swedes. As always, it is the most sensitive – our children and our elderly – who are hardest hit by the bad air in the cities. Local politicians will now have the opportunity to set up environmental zones, three different zones, where only environmentally better cars will be allowed to drive. This has caused the Moderates to go on the roof. It shouts for bans and for rural car owners to be affected despite the fact that it is a question of giving municipal politicians the tools to lower the levels of harmful substances in the air to get below the limit values we have been able to decide on in the EU and to spare people's lives and health. I hope that the Center Party, which has been exercising in the report that municipalities themselves must be given the opportunity to make higher energy and environmental requirements, likes this proposal. It would be interesting to hear what Kristina Yngwe says about the government's decision on environmental zones. Yes, it would of course be interesting to hear the opinion of the other opposition parties as well.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-1217	Madam President, I would like Sweden has unique opportunities to be both leader and winner in the global transition. We have natural resources such as forests and arable land and can thus have an economy based on the renewables that gives Sweden continued growth and development. Sweden has many small and large companies at the forefront of developing new environmental technologies and finding new business models in the circular economy. Having a dynamic and job-creating economy is also the only way for Sweden to set a credible example for other countries. But for Sweden to be able to seize the potential, a policy that promotes innovation and entrepreneurship is required. The policy should enable and facilitate ideas, innovation and investment and remove obstacles to the transition that is already under way. Sweden simply needs a policy of green growth. Madam President, I would like One thing that is often highlighted as an obstacle to the development of Swedish companies is long processing times and complicated permit processes. An improved sewage system or biogas plant can take several years in government management. The same applies to companies that want to move from an innovative green idea to testing. Environmentally impacted activities must meet high demands and rules, but processes and permits must be designed with an overall view of the environmental impact of the business – both positive and negative. Effective and reasonable systems are a competitive advantage in a globalised economy. That is why we in the Center Party, as well as the committee, believe that reforms are needed to improve the management and testing of environmental effects. Basically, the system must be designed so that resources are spent on the right things and the scope of the process is based on the risk and environmental impact of the operation. Requirements should be made flexible and smart so that limited environmental impact does not become an obstacle to investments of great importance for jobs. For activities with less risk such as investments in new purification technologies, a temporary increase in production or various forms of test or test operations, the process should be simpler and faster through, for example, a green track, which the committee has talked about in the past. The definitions of what is classified as different categories of environmentally hazardous activities also need to be reviewed. For example, it is not reasonable for farms whose cows create biodiversity to be classified as environmentally hazardous activities. Today, the length of proceedings between different authorities also varies widely for similar cases. Better support, coordination and effective working methods need to be developed and resources prioritised. The authorities should provide more support and advice than they do today before a formal investigation is initiated in order to make it easier to do the right thing from the outset. The authorities should also clarify and coordinate their requirements better and earlier in the process and limit the possibility for authorities to appeal each other's decisions. These are reforms that enable us to seize the potential of Sweden's companies to create green growth. Madam President, I would like The Green Growth Policy of the Center Party is also about trust in individuals, municipalities and companies' willingness and ability to work with long-term sustainability. It is partly a question of managing natural resources. Sweden's natural resources in the form of soil, forests and water are crucial for Sweden's transition to a bio-based economy, which we have heard a lot about this evening. The green and blue industries provide food, raw materials for renewable materials and energy. But this requires an active use and management of people and companies that develop and care for our natural resources. The Center Party believes that dedicated landowners and users are the most sustainable in the long term to nurture our nature and create green growth throughout the country. But there is a need for strong ownership, as we have heard many times today. It must have an impact on the handling and examination of individual cases by the authorities so that the rights of individuals are safeguarded and they do not suffer unreasonable consequences. Valuable nature may need protection. At the same time, it often means that ownership and use are restricted. It must be self-evident that owners or users should be replaced for the restrictions imposed. The cost of the measure must be proportionate to the environmental benefits of conservation measures and it is important that landowners and users are involved in the process. Reimbursement models and national guidelines for the compulsory disposal of agricultural and forestry land but also the creation of water protection areas need to be reviewed and clarified. The drinking water investigation also pointed to this in its report. There are many questions about replacement models for the establishment of drinking water areas. Yet it is something that the government has chosen not to proceed with. It is also a question of decentralising power to the local and regional level so that the work for green growth can be adapted to local conditions. Local sustainability solutions are based on local engagement. Short decision-making routes, local initiatives and growing small businesses are crucial for creating green growth throughout the country. It is therefore clear to the Center Party that a national policy on local opportunities means that the focus must be on creating opportunities. It is about removing national rules that restrict and hamper local initiatives rather than increased government governance through national rules or state investment programmes. At the national level, it is a matter of creating the conditions by disseminating knowledge, adapting national regulations and developing technical standards, but decentralising responsibilities and competences. Municipalities that want to have the opportunity to invest in cutting-edge projects and tougher energy requirements or to test new technologies. Municipalities and regions wishing to use economic instruments such as congestion taxes, environmental charges or other local environmental or traffic regulations should be able to do so. It shall be permitted to design rules and charges according to environmental performance and to have control over any revenue generated by them. I can also answer the questions that the Social Democrats and the Green Party have had regarding our motion to integrate and review the environmental objectives system. It is about that we now have 17 global sustainability goals by 2030. We in the Center Party believe that it is important for us to have an environmental objective system that actually takes into account the fact that we also have global sustainability goals. During the rounding that everything in the spring made to various stakeholders involved in environmental issues, quite a few raised the need to review the environmental objectives system in order to see what will happen after 2020 with regard to, for example, interim targets, and the need to adapt and review the environmental objectives system based on Agenda 2030. I therefore believe that this is a highly relevant issue for us to continue to pursue, and I hope that the Environmental Objectives Committee will be able to address it. In conclusion, Madam President, I think it is a good thing that the committee today, with its two announcements, points out that green growth is the future and that it is important to create the conditions for such growth, both through faster and simpler licensing processes, and by examining compensation models for the use of land that restricts ownership. We in the Center Party support all the reservations contained in the report, but for time to come we are only calling for reservation 1 on strengthening local and regional environmental and climate power.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-1235	Madam President, I would like As has already been said in this debate, this is an issue that concerns a little different environmental issues. Anyone who reads the report sees that there are two calls, i.e. two announcements, made by the bourgeois parties with the support of the Swedish Democrats. There are two calls for opening doors. The first concerns the reform of permit processes. Just as Sara Karlsson from the Social Democrats said earlier, a lot of work is being done to bring about simpler permit processes. The changes previously made to the environmental code are not least an important part of this work. It should be borne in mind that this work cannot be carried on too far either. We must constantly remember what the permit processes are about, namely that we should protect the environment. The second notice is about compensation in the event of so-called restrictions on property rights. We had a long debate on this in the past, and it is incomprehensible how the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats can fight so much for this issue when in practice they have no money to compensate the landowners for political decisions. These are two announcements which, if I may say so, are either open doors or quite meaningless. Madam President, I would like It was a pity that Kristina Yngwe from the Center Party left, because I had some further questions about reservation number 7, which is about changing the environmental protection system. I see that even the Moderates are in on this in reservation 6, at least if you read the headline. I can only make a very strong contribution here: Don't throw the baby out with the bath water! We have an environmental policy system that still works as a way of monitoring how environmental policy is run and enforced in Sweden. If we're going to change that, at least I want to know that we're getting something that's more robust and well-functioning than what we already have. I have not seen that neither the Moderates nor the Center Party have presented any alternative that would work better. Madam President, I would like I support all the reservations of the Left Party. I demand that time-winning consent only to reservation 11 – I will return to it soon. In reservation No 9 we in the Left Party are talking about the importance of changing the environmental objective Good built environment. This environmental objective includes many urban planning issues and questions about how we can build more sustainable cities with more public transport, smarter urban planning and so on. We think that what is called an urban agreement, which is now in the government budget that we in the Left Party support, is a very good thing. It is a question of fully integrating public transport into the planning of new cities and new neighbourhoods, and then you can get subsidies from the state. A large number of municipalities have already received such grants, and more will receive them. But we see that there is some potential for improvement here. We in the Left Party want a clear goal of reducing car traffic, increasing travel by public transport and bicycle and increasing traffic on foot. Just bicycle and pedestrian traffic are often forgotten in these contexts. We want to add this as a milestone within the framework of the environmental quality objective of Good built environment. Madam President, I would like In this report, we in the Left Party propose that the government adopt a phasing-out plan for environmentally harmful subsidies. Sweden is, in many international contexts, such as the EU, the G20 and the OECD, quite a driving force for other countries to phase out their financial contributions to what pollutes the environment. I remember Stefan Löfven giving a fire speech against fossil subsidies at the climate summit in Paris a couple of years ago. Great! But what does it really look like here at home? In fact, we in Sweden are subsidising environmentally hazardous activities with between SEK 30 billion and SEK 60 billion annually. In its latest report, the Swedish Environmental Protection Association says that only climate-damaging subsidies in Sweden cost SEK 30 billion. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has on a number of occasions mapped out the environmentally harmful subsidies; it is not only about climate but also about the environment in a broader perspective. If we sum up the subsidies – tax reductions, direct financial contributions and so on – we land at about SEK 60 billion. There is a great deal of money for what actually pollutes and increases emissions, and that money could do much better elsewhere. Let me give you some examples of what this might be about. It can be a question of reducing the tax burden on fossil diesel, that international aviation is totally VAT-free, that the mining industry in Sweden does not pay any CO2 tax at all, that we have large subsidies on fuel for professional fishing, which rewards, for example, bottom trawling that requires a lot of fuel, that we have intensive livestock farming and large subsidies to the meat industry in Sweden, that we have a deduction that should benefit public transport but instead favours mass carism and a number of other benefits for privately owned cars. I believe that many of these tax reductions and financial contributions have come about with good intentions. One may want to compensate certain vulnerable regions or groups in society. They want to pursue an industrial policy in Sweden that means that the big companies do not just move to other countries. I fully understand this. However, we have to ask ourselves whether it is reasonable that we spend three to six times more on subsidising what pollutes than we spend on environmental measures – about SEK 10 billion in the environmental budget. Could it be that special interests have guided this development a great deal? It could be car manufacturers, large industries, meat industry and other things. How effective are these subsidies? There are a lot of questions that I ask myself anyway. That is why we in the Left want a phasing-out plan for environmentally harmful subsidies. In such a phasing-out plan, I imagine that the alleged benefits of this will have to be weighed against the negative consequences for the environment, and a balance will simply have to be struck. However, I am absolutely convinced that we could abolish many of these very costly and simply environmentally damaging subsidies. It cannot be the case that Sweden in international contexts is talking about other countries abolishing their environmentally harmful subsidies, but that we in Sweden are not really able to sweep in front of our own door. I have raised this issue many times both with the former bourgeois government and with the current S and MP government. The answer I usually get from Sara Karlsson and the Social Democrats is that the question is being prepared in the Government Office. But, Sara Karlsson, what does it really mean? Do you have a plan to phase out environmentally harmful subsidies? That would be very interesting to hear. I request the approval of reservation 11.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-1251	Madam President, I would like I thought I'd start by agreeing with some of the previous speakers, and I was going to start with Sara Karlsson. She spoke about the polluter pays principle. It is also a fundamental principle for the Liberals. I think that's a good principle. Jens Holm talked about phasing out environmentally harmful subsidies. That is a view that we also share. We already have some proposals in our budget. It is about a reformed travel deduction and reduced diesel subsidies to, among other things, the mining industry and agriculture. It's not a ready plan, but it's still a thought that we can share. And I don't think anyone here really thinks that environmentally harmful subsidies are a particularly good idea. Madam President, I would like This report is multifaceted or sprawling, if you use another word. There are some red threads in it anyway. Some are about the regulatory framework that governs different permit processes. There is also a discussion about reimbursement models. This discussion is very parallel to the discussion we had just now on forestry policy. With regard to the two announcements, it has perhaps become today's theme that we are talking about wide-open doors that are being slammed in. I would like to come back to what I said earlier that this should nevertheless be seen as an impatience and that it is nevertheless the results that count. I think we're all very aware of the fact that there's a lot of work going on. But it is still a matter of the government getting some results. Johan Hultberg said during the debate on the previous report that one must at some point stop preparing and take action instead. It is in fact in this way that these announcements should be seen. We see, as I said, that some work is under way on this. But these announcements are a clear signal from the Riksdag about what we want to see for results and that we want to see this result quite quickly. Basically, it is not a question of setting lower environmental standards, it is a question of producing efficient and efficient permit processes. We from the Liberals really want to emphasise the role of different authorities in this. In all contexts when we discuss permit processes, we need to move from a government perspective to a user perspective. When we talk about the user perspective, just lengthy and unpredictable permit processes are what paralyze a business and even make it refrain from engaging in an activity. I see a clear parallel to the discussion we have had about the desire for more flexible licensing processes in relation to water activities. Liberals are not part of the Energy Agreement, but in this part we have been involved in making announcements from the Riksdag. We are therefore behind the part that we must be able to adapt the permit processes to the size of the business and the risk of environmental impact. As I can tell, that's where we're going. Here, too, it is a question of being able to set clear and relevant environmental requirements but still focus on the environmental measures themselves, so that the costs of the permit process itself do not blur but all kinds of opportunities to move forward. I do not need to repeat the statement on compensation in the event of restrictions on property rights. We had this discussion almost just now. I think it was Sara Karlsson who said that we have said that it is sad to discuss budget appropriations. It is not boring, but I think I said that there was a very one-sided discussion and that we need to open up new compensation models in order to get more effective compensation models where we really get a protection of the forest in a good way. I am in favour of reservation 8, where we support a moderate motion on ecosystem services. The value of them must be clarified and put into a social planning perspective. It is not a simple task how to value and set a value. But often this is also a lot about knowledge and awareness about the feeling that they exist. Many have tried to set an exact crown number, but it is not quite simple. I will comment on what was raised by Stina Bergström and the Green Party when it comes to the fact that protection of valuable nature, seas and biodiversity requires funding from the public. The starting point of the liberals, however, is that the development of smart and sustainable solutions is based on science, technology development, a market economy and free trade, but we also see that there are opportunities where the public must go in and fund certain protective measures. Nobody brought up wind power here, and I think I'm abstaining too. However, when we are having this discussion, there is certainly a great deal to be done with regard to the model that exists. However, municipalities must continue to play an important role in the planning of their land areas. This applies to all other areas. I think that the comparison made by the Left Party in its motion on fossil mining is not quite relevant. It's completely separate. Wind power plants are being built to a much greater extent than fossil fuels will be extracted at all. I think that the Left Party simplifies this when it is simply said that the so-called municipal veto should be removed. I never use this word. This is about municipalities making a strength and getting to this process in a good way.
i-16549c8b2ba66885-1264	Madam President, I would like As several have pointed out, the report now under discussion is sprawling and contains a little of it. It is partly quite close to the last report we debated, MJU17 on forestry policy. In any case, I choose to deal with two issues in my speech, on the one hand the examination of animal retention activities and, on the other hand, the question of property rights. The authorisation process in livestock production is often burdensome at present. SOU 2013:5 also concluded that there were requirements that were relatively interventional without justification in the individual case and that the scientific evidence was uncertain. It is important that permit processes are effective and legally secure. To achieve this, the Competitiveness Investigation in the SOU 2015:15 proposed three concrete measures with which we Christian Democrats agree and which I would like to mention. A new guide is needed for registration and authorisation testing. The Government should instruct the Swedish Board of Agriculture and the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management to draw up a new guide for notification and authorisation testing in livestock production. This task shall aim at shortening the review process, increasing the competence of administrators and promoting uniform enforcement in different parts of the country. In addition, we believe that the testing of animal retention activities needs to be concentrated on fewer environmental testing missions, in order to achieve a more uniform application of law, facilitate the specialisation of environmental experts and streamline the testing itself. In our committee motion, we also propose that the government take the initiative to remove the requirement for consultation for notifiable activities. Such activities are considered less environmentally friendly. The requirement for consultation involves additional costs for the individual, and it takes longer to carry out operational changes. Madam President, I would like As far as ownership is concerned, the Government considers that the Land Acquisition Act has an inhibitory effect on the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture by making external capital supply difficult. In other words, the government wants to make it easier for limited liability companies to buy up agricultural land. The Christian Democrats say no to a relaxation of the Land Acquisition Act. We believe that ownership of the forest must be respected. Of course, there are challenges in terms of capital supply in agriculture, but these challenges should be addressed through simplification and improvements in other regulatory frameworks. In order to facilitate generational transitions, the Christian Democrats propose that tax rules be modified to facilitate successive purchases and sales of agricultural properties. The different rules that exist in our Nordic neighbours to facilitate generational shifts should also be considered in our country. The competitiveness study concluded that the major obstacle to investment is the generally low profitability of the agricultural and horticultural sector. According to the Christian Democrats, the conclusion of this should be to focus on increased profitability, which in turn will attract capital and investment. In these words, Madam President, I would like to support the proposal in the report, including the two announcements, as well as the Christian Democrats' reservation No 5 on the testing of animal retention activities and so on.
