i-UCJj6TMXJWw7K8JBrwNv1m	I would like to extend a warm welcome to the Ministers of State. Questions are answered today by Minister Isabella Lövin, Minister for Justice and Home Affairs Morgan Johansson, Minister Ann Linde and Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Government of Isabella Lövin answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-1	Mr President, I would like to The issue of improved safety protection has been raised in connection with the IT scandal at the Swedish Transport Agency and the government's inadequate handling of something as important as national security. A series of sharpenings is now being proposed in a new security law. I am surprised that the government wants to include important provisions in regulations and not in law, but above all that the government wants to be able to exempt itself and the Government Office from important provisions that apply to other authorities. My question to Deputy Prime Minister Isabella Lövin is: Why is it so important for the government to exempt itself, especially in the light of its own actions regarding the Swedish Transport Agency? Shouldn't we be doing the exact opposite?
i-SuVJSJ3n7U9pD7b1jfYsUe	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Tomas Tobé, for the question! It is, of course, extremely important that there is proper scrutiny and scrutiny of what is called the Transport Board affair. There is a review going on in the Constitutional Committee right now. The government has also put in place scrutiny, and this is an issue which, of course, must be examined in every way. Legal certainty and national security must be at the heart of the issue. Independent authorities should assume their responsibilities, but of course all the procedures of the Government Office should also be examined. Political responsibility is, of course, central to all issues where the government has a responsibility. That is my answer to Tomas Tobés's question.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-7	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answer, Isabella Lövin, but my question was why the government is putting forward a new security law that aims to create the possibility of being able to have exceptions for itself and for the Government Office from regulations that apply to other authorities. Does not the inadequate handling of the Transport Agency show that we should do exactly the opposite?
i-McKi64QFZcJPNyq93VZfna	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Tomas Tobé! Let me reiterate that the principle is, of course, that we must have transparency and accountability when it comes to national security. The government has these issues at its centre, and there are important gaps that have been revealed with the question of the Swedish Transport Agency and how data management has been done. It also has a connection with outsourcing, for which the alliance government was very proactive. I look forward to the fact that we will be able to close these gaps.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-12	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Isabella Lövin. In yesterday's vote, the government rejected a proposal from the Swedish Democrats for increased limitation periods for occupational health and safety offences. It can be perceived as very strange, as problems with the working environment are high on the political agenda. Several trade unions are pushing the issue, and there is also a Congress decision from LO to pursue this issue. Unfortunately, those most affected by this decision are usually foreign posted workers, as contracts often take place in several stages, which makes the investigation more difficult. This reform is not costly and would facilitate the development of Swedish health and safety policy. My question to the Government is: Do the Government and the Government consider that they are satisfied with the work regarding Swedish health and safety policy when they reject a proposal that would have demonstrably facilitated and developed the management of occupational health and safety offences?
i-DSg4iN76NqwUN5mQouJfuR	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Magnus Persson, for the question! Work environment is increasingly important. We can see this from the increasing sickness rates. Of course, it has many different causes, and employers have a great responsibility to ensure that people in working life also have a full working life and are not affected by chronic diseases, burnout or other things. The Government has increased its ambition to set up a new OSH Institute that will be able to resume work on this. We take seriously the fact that people are more likely to be sickened from their jobs. That is something that the government will continue to work on.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-18	Mr President, I would like to That's not really what the question was about, Isabella Lövin. After all, the Swedish democrats invest considerably more than the government in these issues. Is the rejection of the Swedish Democrats' proposal more important to the government than giving employees and their families more opportunities for redress? It is about the limitation period regarding occupational health and safety offences, not about investments in the work environment.
i-Rr5kpTtFjsiSfqRXfiuRbr	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the clarification of the question, Magnus Persson! I believe that a question with this level of detail should be addressed to the responsible Minister. I can only say, on behalf of the government as a whole, that we are putting the working environment very central to the work of this government. We're betting on welfare. We are committed to making people feel safe in their jobs. We will continue to do so.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-22	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask a question to the European Minister, Ann Linde. The EU is hotter than it has been in a long time. Free-trade friends across the continent are gathering against Trumps's steel tariffs. It has been a long time since we have so agreed that customs duties must be stopped. On other issues, however, the government seems to have doubts about the EU. You seem to want to wait and see and approach carefully. In a number of areas, Sweden is outside, and we are losing influence. Macron has a strong European vision and Germany has a new government, now with an ambitious European policy. It is time for Sweden to wake up. We cannot sit in the gallery, and we cannot sit in the side room, as Magdalena Andersson had to do at the last euro meeting, but we shall be at the heart of the European Union. Liberals want Sweden to join the euro and to join the Banking Union. We believe in a European FBI and a European carbon tax. Why is the government so hesitant?
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-28	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maria Weimer, for the question! When it comes to how the government deals with EU issues, we are extremely active and, contrary to what it sounds like in the matter, we are very much more active and in demand than our size actually says. We come in sixth or seventh place when other countries indicate who they want to cooperate with. Our view is that we should not join the euro until the Swedish people decide again. We believe that we have full influence and can be very active and pursue issues without bringing Europe into a more federalist direction. We therefore differ politically in what we want with the European Union.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-31	Mr President, I would like to We believe that Sweden is paying a high price to remain outside the core of the EU, and we are losing out on the fact that Sweden has not adopted the euro or is a member of the Banking Union. At the moment, Nordea's Annual General Meeting is currently in progress, where you will vote on the move to Finland – because Finland is a member of the Banking Union. The government's hesitation costs, and Sweden needs to have higher ambitions in the EU. We must leave the bench and be at the heart of the European Union. It is sad that the government continues to be in doubt on these points.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-34	Mr President, I would like to I do not think that a large part of the Swedish people share the view that Maria Weimer and the Liberals have that Sweden should join the euro and in a more federal cooperation. On the contrary, I feel that there is very strong support for the line that the government represents. The Banking Union is currently under investigation.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-36	Mr President, I would like to I have two questions for Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-38	The second question is: what measures does the country's Minister for the Environment consider necessary to strengthen the right of disposal of Swedish forest owners, that is to say, the right to farm their forests – their property? The question is raised on the grounds that there is property rights. I am saying this because we have constitutional property rights. In my opinion, this follows a user's right, that is to say the right to dispose of their property.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-40	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for the question. A number of appeals are currently under way concerning what Eskil Erlandsson is asking about. We need to wait for the outcome of those processes before we can draw political conclusions and thus take the lead in what needs to be done forward. I can see that one case is complete. This led to a strengthened right to receive compensation as a result of government decisions linked to a strengthened definition of what is known as ongoing land use. To date, this right has been strengthened in the course of its term of office. If that is the case, we will know when the pending cases will also be completed.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-43	Mr President, I would like to I am forced to note that a large number of individual property owners are currently extremely hard hit by the government's slowness to come up with directives for those things that are so important to the owners. People and businesses are being hit extremely hard. I was taught in infancy that one should do the right thing if one is forced to give up something to the general. The same rule should apply to the general, namely the state.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-45	Mr President, I would like to The principles of forestry policy and the current definition of what applies in Sweden linked to ownership and forestry policy are the result of a decision by the Riksdag. It is based on a bill from the former bourgeois government. That's the right thing to do right now. It has then led to a number of appeals. Neither I nor anyone else can draw any conclusions until those processes are complete.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-48	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Deputy Prime Minister Isabella Lövin. How sustainable is it that the government conducts a policy that during the time of the Green Party in the government has doubled the care queues?
i-TXkJtmx4uZY6v1ypUydAfR	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Emma Henriksson, for the question! It is of course worrying that there is a shortage of staff and a shortage of resources in healthcare, which has also led to longer queues. We have problems with staff supply, not least because of the lack of investment in health professionals and training of nurses during the previous eight years when the Alliance ruled. You have had a concept to clean up the care queues with the help of the so-called queue billion. It gives a little extra money to the care providers who shorten their queues. However, evaluations have shown that it has had serious displacement effects. Now we're working on the basics. We train staff, and we work to get people to want to work in health care and thus also graze the queues.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-53	Mr President, I would like to During our time in the government, we made sure that there were more employees in the care. We also made sure, above all, that patients were given more care on time. In the five county councils that lie in the lower league, where not even one in three patients receives treatment on time, the Environmental Party is involved in and governs almost everyone. On the other hand, the Green Party is not at the top of any of the three county councils, where we Christian Democrats are in charge, and where only one in ten patients is not receiving treatment on time. Is that the responsibility of the Green Party?
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-56	Mr President, I would like to I can see that governments differ in the different regions and county councils. The Green Party is in many, and the Christian Democrats are also in many – but such conclusions cannot be drawn. It's a lot about how we can work preventively and what resources the county councils get – not least the opportunity to employ staff in healthcare. The government is now investing 13 billion in health care. A cue billion is not the solution to the care queues. It's resources.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-59	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister for European Affairs and Trade Ann Linde. There is no doubt that we are living and operating in a turbulent time. It has been a long time since we saw so many conflicts escalate as quickly as they do today. While we are still awaiting the consequences of Brexit, we see that protectionism is growing in one of the world's most powerful nations, the United States. Last week, Donald Trump spoke about imposing duties on steel and aluminium from the EU. This is something that not only harms Sweden's exports but also risks triggering a trade war. How will the imposition of duties affect Sweden?
i-HqHBpmdxQrPQjVx2TAUur6	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Amne Ali, for the question. There is a serious situation. What Donald Trump does by taking a decision to impose steel duties is to abandon the trade system that exists through the World Trade Organisation. It would harm Swedish steel producers and, above all, the entire system. It's the most disturbing thing. Sweden exports steel for 4 billion per year. Of course, as high as 25% customs duties will harm Swedish steel producers. That is why we must now react to what is happening.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-64	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Government for its answer. I agree with the analysis that we are facing a historic crossroads right now.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-66	Mr President, I would like to Sweden must not have its own trade policy, but we have handed that competence over to the EU. In the EU, we are now looking at three main measures, on the one hand bringing a dispute to the United States and, on the other hand, preparing countermeasures that are permitted under the WTO and, on the other hand, looking at safeguard tariffs when the European market is now in danger of being dumped by steel that would have gone to the United States.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-67	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put a question to Minister Isabella Lövin, Minister for Climate and International Development Cooperation. I would like to ask you a question about aid. Sweden is a proud aid country. We're one of the few countries in the world that gives 1% of bni. Sweden is one of the largest donors when it comes to core support to the UN, and we are the largest donor to the Green Fund. We have a good reputation. We also have a tradition as individuals to give a lot of money to different organisations. But in the last month, we have seen a number of reports that aid workers have sexually abused and harassed those they are actually there to help. This is unacceptable. Given Sweden's good reputation, how has the Minister acted to ensure that our money does not go to this?
i-EN77euYRyHfb5qsQcRGi2k	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Emma Nohrén, for the question! It is, of course, despicable, what we have heard reported about aid workers and also high managers in the world of aid who have used their position to sexually exploit the need for aid. We have been extremely clear, both against civil society organisations that Sweden is working with and against the UN and the EU. I have had personal talks with the Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations, who was here, and other senior executives and with the European Commission's Development Mimica Mimica. We've written letters. This is, of course, totally unacceptable, because if people who give money and pay through the tax bill lose confidence that those who work on these issues behave morally decently, we have lost double.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-74	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. It is commendable that we have acted forcefully on this issue in various bodies. But I also wonder how we did with Sida, which conveys most of the money in Sweden. Have we talked about this there, and are there any follow-up mechanisms that can strike?
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-76	Mr President, I would like to Yes, I have spoken with Sida, and Sida as an authority has very strict procedures in place for how its own employees act and for follow-up discussions. Sida has stopped payments to Oxfam, for example, while waiting for the investigation and to get answers that you do not repeat what has happened within Oxfam. This is something we must continue to work on continuously.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-80	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister of Climate Change Isabella Lövin. After all, the climate issue is the survival issue of our time. Earlier today, I listened to researcher Johan Rockström and other researchers who talked about the need to reduce our emissions in the world by 6 – 7 percent annually. You and I both know that, Isabella: We're not on that curve at all. A simple way to reduce our emissions is simply to remove money for what is dirty. Today, the Nature Protection Association presented the report Abolish climate-damaging subsidies. We in Sweden have climate-damaging subsidies of approximately SEK 30 billion. The organisation wants Sweden to have abolished these subsidies by 2022. The government could adopt an action plan to phase out climate-damaging subsidies. I wonder: is the government prepared to introduce such an action plan to phase out climate-damaging subsidies?
i-98WzyFZ3M9M7snmzUnedM9	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jens Holm, for the important question! It is important that we understand how our economy is built – that we benefit fossil fuels – and also our lock-in in an oil-dependent society. We have already asked the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to look at what environmentally harmful subsidies exist in Sweden, and the report by the Swedish Environmental Protection Association highlights many important parts. A lot of the hidden subsidies are simply exemptions from energy and environmental taxes on fuel, for example in international shipping, agriculture and aviation. These are the big posts in it. Unfortunately, there are international conventions that exempt these very modes of transport and EU rules that make it slow to work with.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-88	Mr President, I would like to Yes, but with a decommissioning plan for climate-damaging subsidies, we could take a holistic approach to this. And I think, Isabella Lövin, that we choose ourselves whether we want to subsidise automotive diesel or not and subsidise the mining industry or not. I have raised this issue many times with the government, but I am always given the answer to the question being prepared; we are continuing to investigate. Now's your chance, Isabella Lövin! The climate can't wait. Will the government introduce a decommissioning plan for climate-damaging subsidies?
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-90	Mr President, I would like to We are in the process of introducing a flight tax. We are reviewing the travel allowance, which is also a hidden subsidy of fossil fuels. I have also taken the initiative that we need to review the entire EU acquis, state aid rules and other things in order to be in line with the Paris Agreement. We need to do a lot of things here, and it's about to happen. An action plan in the sense that we have to work on becoming fossil-free is therefore underway.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-93	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Ann Linde. In the light of President Trumps's decision to introduce new tariffs on steel and aluminium, and hence the US, we have come one step closer to a possible trade war. This, of course, is very serious, as has been said earlier in today's Question Time, and is in danger of having a major impact not only on world trade as such but also on the whole system. It can also have security policy implications. Therefore, today I would like to ask the Government how it intends to act now so that this conflict does not escalate beyond control. I've heard rather contentious statements from the Government. At the same time, it is really important to balance so that the EU in turn does not make this an even more difficult issue than it already is. What is the government's direction?
i-KP3N4o3v7Ag29ypM5uRJzj	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Karin Enström, for the important question! We do not have a trade war yet, and we will do everything we can not to have a trade war because it would hurt Sweden as an export-dependent country very hard. On the other hand, the European Union, which I fully support, cannot just stand by and watch whether the American administration imposes duties which harm both our industry and that of the entire European Union without doing anything. I think you should look at three things. The first is to bring the United States before the WTO so that it can be tested whether this is in accordance with the WTO acquis. The second is to prepare countermeasures – which we may not need. The third is to see if we need safeguards for our own European market when it is flooded with steel that would have gone to the United States.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-99	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. As has been said, it is a difficult balancing process to mark and ensure that WTO rules and as free trade as possible remain and, at the same time, do not call for this to be escalated. We do not think that will lead to a good result. Trade is an EU competence. At the same time, the Member States must be consulted. How does the government intend to anchor the steps forward here in Parliament?
i-RW5zJLS4zTM9UmWp86zzW2	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Karin Enström, for the supplementary question. As soon as concrete proposals come up that need to be decided on in the Council, we will, in the usual way, take them in the EU Board. However, some of the proposals will not come directly to the Council, but the Commission itself has the power to decide on them. Then we can make information to Parliament, but it is the Commission that, so to speak, has the right to make those decisions.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-104	Mr President, I would like to My question is of a horizontal nature and is addressed to Minister Isabella Lövin. Last week we saw a press release, and then a new version of it, that the government wants to target 120 million annually at young homeless people. It is quite explicitly said that these are primarily young people who have come here as unaccompanied minors and then received expulsion decisions and are not entitled to reside in the country. They have thus lost the right to housing, housing allowance and such benefits. It is therefore for these people to target this special contribution, although through voluntary organisations offering housing. I wonder how this goes with the government's previously announced line of taking responsibility. Tax revenue should not be used to finance housing and contributions to those who are not entitled to be in the country.
i-LMMz4Mx6FXhGfGxCWzozYP	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Paula Bieler, for the question! I think everyone is familiar with the situation in Sweden and the world today. We have a war in Syria that is in the eighth year. We have over 65 million people on the run, and in 2015 many of them chose to come to Sweden. Sweden has a humanitarian attitude towards helping people who flee from war and conflict. Many of those who arrived were then under the age of 18 and were thus classed as unaccompanied refugee children. As Paula Bieler knows, the processing times were very long because there were so many for a short time. Now we have a situation in which their cases must be dealt with. In the meantime, they need the security they can get, with the context that they have now established in Sweden.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-109	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It was quite interesting and not quite what I expected. This is therefore about those who do not have the right to reside in the country. That's when you lose the right to housing, which the state will otherwise stand for. This is a targeted contribution to those who fall under homelessness and are not entitled to housing because they have received a refusal decision. Is this, in fact, a way of moving forward with the amnesty that is being tried to hide with the High School Act, so as to give those who are not entitled to it the opportunity to stay in the country and actually actually pay for the accommodation during that time?
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-111	Mr President, I would like to We do not think it is a good society if people are referring to lying on park benches or do not have a roof over their heads when they are in a vulnerable situation. We must have proper conditions so that those who have been rejected can be rejected in an orderly manner. You should also have your case tried in an orderly manner. The government is working on this.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-112	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Morgan Johansson. The government has set the target of 10,000 more police officers by 2024. Before last year's course began, 9 353 people applied for police training. It's a doubling compared to the last round. In addition, more and more people today are completing their police training. This is of course positive, but we have seen problems with the fact that there are still empty places in police training. This may be because some applicants choose other courses or because they are sifted out for various reasons. This is a worrying development that may make it difficult for the police to fulfil their mission, and it also makes it difficult for the government to reach the goal of more police in society.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-116	Mr President, I would like to That's a good question. We come from a situation in which, during their term of office, the bourgeois pulled down heavily on police training. Only half as many police officers as would have been needed were trained. What we have done now is to increase the rate of police training; we have doubled it, just as the questioner describes. In a month's time, in mid-April, 478 new police aspirants will be released. Next year, 1 300 new cops are going out. It's the biggest litter going out since 2010. So we have doubled the pace, but of course we need to do even more to reach our target of 10,000 more police workers in 2024. It is about continuing to improve the working conditions of the police and ensuring that there are better career paths, and it is also, of course, about the issue of wages. It is simply a matter of making the police profession attractive so that more and more young people go to the police. This is exactly what we're working on.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-118	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Research shows that groups that are mixed usually produce better results. This probably applies from hunting teams to politicians. It is therefore worrying that the statistics on applicants show that many women and people with immigrant backgrounds are seeking but then being sifted away somewhere in the application process. Is there any measure that could be taken to increase the diversity of the police, and how should it be done without compromising on quality?
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-120	Mr President, I would like to We don't want to blur the quality. We must have good, well-trained and qualified police officers who go out, who can do their important work. However, I believe that recruitment needs to be broadened further. One proposal is to start two new police training courses, one in Malmö and one in West Sweden. Then I think we'll get even more applicants for police training. As the questioner says, we have had almost 10 000 applicants. I believe that we will have even more, and then we will also have a much larger selection of new young people.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-121	Mr President, I would like to When the Security Service presented its annual report for the previous year, it was particularly noted that security problems have increased and that threats to Swedish democracy, not least from violent Islamist extremism, are a major concern. In addition to having problems with domestic extremism – about 2 000 people are expected to support that type of movement – we also have problems with returnees. The Liberals noted yesterday that Gothenburg will now begin to investigate all the returnees who have come back from the so-called Islamic state. We have tried in the past to clarify whether this works throughout the country. The government has said that it basically works. But I still want a clear message from Minister Morgan Johansson. Do you think anyone who returns will be investigated for crime?
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-124	Mr President, I would like to Growing extremism in some places is a major concern that we must take very seriously. We will strengthen the resources of the Swedish Security Service with nearly SEK 200 million in the next few years. We have already made a financial contribution. They employ more and will therefore also be able to carry out more investigations. My opinion is that it is the police that investigates crimes, not the government. When I talk to the Security Service about this, the signal from them and from the open police is constantly this: if we suspect that a crime has been committed, we will of course start a preliminary investigation, which is usually preceded by questioning. The assessments of how to do this in individual cases must always be carried out by the police. It is not politicians who should conduct criminal investigations.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-126	Mr President, I would like to The government won't answer my question. This is not a question of pre-trial investigation or of persons who have committed crimes or are suspected of offences. The Liberals demand that all extremists and terrorists returning from the Islamic State, regardless of suspicion of crime, be subject to mandatory investigation for crime. I want to know if the Social Democrats and the Minister of Justice believe that they should be investigated. I didn't get an answer to my question.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-127	Mr President, I would like to Roger Haddad does not really seem to understand how police work works, nor does he seem to understand the distinction between politics and the police work of the agency. I have full confidence in the Security Service and in the way the police do their work. I'll never write the police on their noses what to do and what not to do. I assume – and I know it is – that if they suspect that crimes have been committed, they are bringing people in for questioning. If they then need to proceed, they also start a preliminary investigation. You have to have that train order.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-130	Mr President, I would like to I have mentioned on several occasions in this House the need to create better conditions for aquaculture in Sweden. It's a question that makes me pretty frustrated, actually. The conditions for aquaculture could, with fairly simple regulatory changes and changes in government governance, be radically improved and thus also have a positive impact on our environment and economic growth, especially in rural areas. The Minister for the Environment has previously replied to me that the regulatory framework is being reviewed. Sure, some changes need to be investigated, but quite a lot could easily be changed. Mr President, I would like to It is not just me who is impatient, but actually a majority here in Parliament, who made an announcement last week. Now I wonder what the Minister for the Environment and the Government will do in concrete terms to remove the obstacles to a growing green industry in a blue field.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-133	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Johan Hultberg, for raising an important issue! I and the government fully share the view that sustainable aquaculture can be an important part of future food security. That is also why the food strategy, with targeted missions to the responsible authority, mentions the issue, which should, among other things, review whether regulatory simplifications of the type requested can be made.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-134	Mr President, I would like to So there is no lack of strategies, but there is a lack of concrete action by this government. We have a food strategy, and there is a specific strategy for aquaculture, but these are concrete measures that I call for and that the industry desperately needs in order to unleash the enormous potential that exists. I can give the Minister a little help: change the rules of the environmental code, so that permits are based on expected emissions rather than on feed consumption, and coordinate the supervision of the authorities! These are concrete measures that I hope the government will take the initiative. Will anything happen before the end of the term of office?
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-136	Mr President, I would like to We have adopted a comprehensive food strategy with a wide range of measures and concrete missions to our authorities. One of them concerns aquaculture, with the possibility of reviewing the type of rules mentioned here.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-138	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Minister Lövin a question about the growing problem of mental illness among children and young people in Sweden. It is above all a growing problem among young people who feel bad, but it is also a problem for the development of society. Last Tuesday, the Green Party announced that elections will be held to abolish queues in child and youth psychiatry. This may indeed be necessary given that the queues have tripled during the time of the Green Party in the government. My question to Minister Isabella Lövin is: Why has the government not done more when it comes to children's and young people's mental health?
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-140	Mr President, I would like to This is an extremely important issue that Fredrik Christensson raises here. Children's and young people's mental ill health is really a temperature taker when it comes to how society works. That is why it is very worrying that it is increasing at such a high rate. The Government has invested SEK 600 million a year in mental illness and SEK 400 million a year in particular for children and young people. It is part of our attention to this problem. Then, of course, the most important thing is to work preventively. Once you get help with coming to a psychologist or counselor, you already have problems. We are investing in school, in welfare and in living and humane cities, as well as in employment for young people and in their leisure time. That is part of our view of this.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-143	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, the statistics on children's and young people's health show an alarming development during the time of the Green Party in the government, where queues have tripled. It is a growing problem, and it is happening at the same time as removing a performance-based compensation for those county councils that succeeded in ensuring that children and young people were helped within a reasonable time. What measures are planned, and are we satisfied with what has been achieved?
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-144	Mr President, I would like to I assume that Fredrik Christensson is referring to the queue billion. Once again, we'll bet 13 billion where you'll bet 1 billion. The 13 billion is about strengthening the entire healthcare system. I very much appreciate the importance of investing in out-of-town schools, student health and the whole of civil society in order to address the stress and insecurity that so many young people feel. This is a task for the whole of society.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-146	Mr President, I would like to One of the many important things that the government has done in its ambitious environmental policy is to make the waste hierarchy law. The next step will be to work to realize it. Then we come to my question, which goes to Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog. Today we often see that we have to carry our packaging to already overcrowded collection stations. Could we not find a way to make it easier to do the right thing, so that the collection can be done with the same service as for the other garbage, that is, directly at the property?
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-148	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Johan Büser, for the question! We have had a producer responsibility in Sweden for quite a number of years. It has been successful to the extent that we have achieved decent levels of recycling, but it has not been enough in terms of the service that citizens receive. Too many citizens need to go to remote or littery recycling stations, as mentioned. Not least for our elderly, this is a task that is actually demanding too much. I see good conditions for us to be able to clarify, through political decisions and clarity, what levels of service citizens can expect.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-149	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I would also like to take this opportunity to ask the Minister how she sees the fact that there are municipalities that already carry out collection directly at the property, but there the local residents have had to bear the costs themselves, even though it is the producers who would actually pay. How does the Minister view this?
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-150	Mr President, I would like to Exactly. In response to the lack of service levels in the system provided by producers today, many local residents have demanded from their politicians that they organise better systems so that they can sort at home. This has resulted in the citizens having to pay for this themselves via the waste tax, even though the principle laid down by the Riksdag is that the funding should lie with the producer. We cannot be content with that. It needs to be corrected.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-151	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Morgan Johansson. The Parliament is currently preparing the Government's proposal for amended media laws. It is rarely that a bill has been met with such widespread criticism. In a number of situations, censorship has even been mentioned. In short, the government wants to ban activities such as Lexbase and the like, which are primarily aimed at the public, while at the same time it does not want to restrict what is called serious investigative journalism in the bill. Thus, the right to collect data is partly linked to the question of who or what activity is involved in data collection. The Swedish Democrats are of course critical of activities such as Lexbase. At the same time, however, we are critical of rewriting the Constitution solely in order to stop individual companies. So the question to the Minister is this: now that the consultative bodies have extensive criticism and some are openly talking about censorship, is it not better to take the bill back to the drawing board and do it again and do it right?
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-155	Mr President, I would like to No. Firstly, it should be said that the proposal has been drafted by a parliamentary committee and has very strong support from the political parties. The problem you wanted to get to when it came to Lexbase was that it was a function that could easily be developed and had in fact already evolved into a platform for witch hunting. It is not only a question of identifying those who have been convicted of various crimes, but also of victims and other witnesses and other plaintiffs. We do not compromise the principle of publicity or transparency in that part, but we are opening up the possibility of saying stop to that type of activity. I believe that, if this is not stopped, it will harm individuals in a very serious way. We must be bold about this, because it is an effect of the new technologies. Then we must modernise the legislation properly.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-157	Mr President, I would like to This law is introduced as a so-called delegation provision. This means that further restrictions may be implemented later. Here some experts say that the government is now opening a giant black hole in the very protection of the Constitution. That is something that worries me extremely much. My question to the Government is of course: Is there really nothing to worry about – when experts talk about giant black holes in constitutional protection?
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-158	Mr President, I would like to I know there are a lot of misunderstandings around this, not least online. They often try to blow this up into something much larger than it is. But I can say that our intention is not to compromise freedom of expression or the freedom of the press. The proposal that has been drawn up has not only broad support in this House, but also, indeed, in most of the media players that we are talking about. We're not going too far in that part.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-161	Mr President, I would like to Every fifth child – 20% of all children – will be sexually abused before the 18th anniversary. And children's porn viewing is a growing social problem. In half of the country's municipalities, porn filters are still missing online in schools and preschools. A lot of people are acting now. Among other things, a parental petition has collected 25,000 signatures – with the hashtag # porn-free childhood – for a new law that limits the presence of porn in preschool and school. But the government doesn't do anything. Now I ask you, Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson: Are you prepared to set up a quick investigation, so that we can get a bill to decide on in the Swedish Parliament?
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-164	Mr President, I would like to What to do at individual schools and preschools is not really my business. It is part of the field of education policy. These decisions must then be made in schools and preschools. That's why I can't promise any investigation in that part. Generally speaking, I can of course say that I would like to see such restrictions and filters in place, not least in the case of schools and preschools. I hope that this issue will be addressed throughout Sweden and in all schools, so as to ensure that this is implemented. For this, there is no need for legislative change; it is enough to act locally.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-166	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister of Justice. Now I am really disappointed – as a member of the Swedish Parliament, as a teacher, as a father and as a grandfather – along with 1.2 million families in Sweden with children under 16 years of age. Even children express their desire to avoid being forced into porn. But the Minister turns aside and gives no answer. The Minister of Justice should be able to draft a bill in this area, right?
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-167	Mr President, I would like to Some issues are government issues. Other questions are municipal. I just said to Roland Utbolt that I would like to see all schools ensure that this discussion is brought to an end, so that we can put an end to this. Now I am not the Minister of Education or the Minister of Education and I am responsible for those parts, but I would like to see this. Because, of course, I also see the need for us to restrict access in this way. But these are primarily local issues. I do not think we have any disagreement on the substance.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-169	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog. It is about hydropower and the trial of this. It is well known that the Liberals are not part of the energy settlement, but we have no other opinion than that we believe that hydropower should have modern environmental conditions and relevant environmental requirements. However, the authorisation process must be reasonable – administrative and economic – so that it does not become too burdensome and so that it is feasible. That we feel that way is no wonder. After all, we are behind the parliamentary decision that has been taken, which basically quotes our motion. We have also said that we think there should be a lot of focus on environmental benefits. But my question to the Minister for the Environment is about another part of this. It reads as follows: Is there a strategy for how to treat the others, thousands, ponds and hiking obstacles that exist? Is there an action programme on this? We can really achieve environmental benefits there.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-172	Mr President, I would like to Many thanks, Lars Tysklind, for the clarity expressed! We have valued this and worked to get a really broad anchor on the decisions that have been made on hydropower. That it extends beyond the five party group is very nice to hear. The proposal we put forward regulates both water quality work and specific management of hydropower plants that supply electricity. We will also start work that we call a national plan. It will work with watercourses for watercourses. All obstacles in a watercourse will thus be dealt with in a joint work led by the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management. It is including dams that have not been connected to electricity generation.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-174	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. In the case of these dams, too, there is a balance between many interests. Cultural heritage and nature conservation may be somewhat opposed to each other. You still have to include all those factors there. But a supplementary question may be: What is the time frame we are talking about when it comes to developing this?
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-176	Mr President, I would like to The national plan aims to balance the interests of energy production, water quality, the environment and the cultural environment in a systematic and balanced way. And you should do it watercourses for watercourses to find the most effective measures. It will take a very long time to test only those who have been linked to electricity generation. It'll take 20 years.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-178	Mr President, I would like to The image of our suburbs is often distorted in the media. There is often a lot of community, and people like it there. Unfortunately, however, we see that many young people have been dragged into more serious crime. In Uppsala, we have seen that when the police are withdrawn at the same time as this happens – it has happened for many years. Preventive work has been reduced, and there is generally a little more talk of repression. I wonder how the government sees many young people in the suburbs as saying that resources are being drawn away from them. Many feel that the rich have become rich at their expense. You can listen to hiphop lyrics and so on. There they express very strongly that feeling: The rich have become rich at our expense. In these areas in Uppsala, the police and the enforcement officer have made raids together. We see market forces entering quite a lot into people's lives, with heavy rent increases. The bailiff has a little harder methods and so on. I wonder if the Minister believes in repression or support.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-183	Mr President, I would like to I believe in a combination of law enforcement and prevention. You always have to do both parts. When it comes to the growth of criminal gangs, for example, I think it is sometimes a question of going after the most crime-active individuals, those who may lead the gangs and are in many cases the most dangerous. This must be done by police means. At the same time, new recruitment must be reduced, and this can be done with social measures. Police and social services must be two strong players. Today, the government has presented a new programme. It is additional money to reduce segregation. I think it is a plan of over 2 billion over the next few years that is about further increasing prevention efforts. But, as I said, do not forget that you always need both perspectives! If there are any who are suffering if we do not succeed in resolving this, it is precisely the residents in these areas.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-186	Mr President, I would like to I wonder whether the Minister and the other Members are thinking that even the most powerful criminals have got these feelings of social development. Even a heavy criminal is, as it were, an ordinary person who can be very harmonious. We humans are vessels filled with what we experience. How we are treated by the environment we will have within us, and it will spill out. This is especially true when you are young and do not have other tools to deal with the situation. I am concerned about the repression we are talking about today.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-188	Mr President, I would like to We need to reduce gaps and increase job opportunities. It has been a concern in the past that the gaps have increased. Now we go in with strong efforts to reduce the gaps. But increased divisions can never be an excuse to start committing very serious crimes. Everyone has a reasonable responsibility, something that is very important to continue to assert. I believe, as I said, in a combination of law enforcement and prevention and rehabilitation when the perpetrators of the serious crimes have been managed.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-190	Mr President, I would like to The terrorist attack on Drottninggatan is one of the most ruthless and terrifying crimes that have taken place against our capital city and our country Sweden in modern times. On 13 February, perhaps the biggest trial in Swedish history began with 155 plaintiffs to be heard in court and an impressive police pre-work. The trial symbolises exactly what a fundamentalist does not believe in: the rule of law, legality and equality before the law. The guilty party shall be convicted of his or her actions on the basis of evidence and judicial review, and the plaintiff shall be entitled to redress. The Government has implemented a lot of measures in the field of counter-terrorism, including through the programme dealing with preventing, preventing and making terrorist attacks in Sweden more difficult.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-194	Mr President, I would like to Among other things, we have strengthened the legislation. We have developed legislation and criminalised the financing of terrorism. We have criminalised travellers for the purpose of committing terrorist offences, and we have criminalised accepting training in terrorism. In the past, it was only criminal to give education. In practice, therefore, it was criminal to go abroad to train as a terrorist. We clogged that hatch a few years ago. We have also increased the resources for both the security police and the police to work on this. There are further proposals before us. Among other things, it is a question of further strengthening the legislation regarding the new crime of participation in terrorist organisations. There are also proposals for new methods of detecting this in time, for example through secret data reading. There is a wide range of measures that we have taken and measures that we will take.
i-3jy4E4MmVfG3txuQu413ht	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Anti-democratic values are spreading very quickly among those who are receptive to it. It is mainly young men, unfortunately, who have already fallen into destructiveness and crime. This week, the Social Democrats presented an election proposal for a national drop-out programme for those who want to leave crime. Can the Government describe the proposal in more detail?
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-199	Mr President, I would like to These activities are conducted at local level, often very well. They are not just targeted at those who are involved in radicalisation and are at risk of becoming terrorist, but are targeted widely. We want a national programme covering the whole of Sweden, which means that cooperation between municipalities across the country can be stimulated much better than today.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-201	Mr President, I would like to I would like to address a question to Isabella Lövin, Minister for Climate Change, regarding the emissions trading scheme. The Alliance government chose to sell the surplus of allowances in Sweden. The result was that the efforts made by the Swedish industry to reduce emissions became emissions in other countries. After the change of government, the red-green government has, instead, mutilated the surplus of allowances. My question is: how many allowances have been cancelled in Sweden during the term of office?
i-EKxe7jzQtqd7ouRHK7zDfV	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Niclas Malmberg, for the question. It is very abstract for people what an emission allowance is. And there is much that is regulated within a common EU trading system, where emissions are to be reduced in the long term. Clearly, if emission allowances are cancelled, no one else can use them. In addition, the price of allowances increases. Therefore, it has been very important for Sweden to push for a reform of the EU ETS. During the time that we have been in government, we have constantly mutilated what has been left over by the Swedish allocation. In total, during these years we have decommissioned 106 million tonnes of emission allowances, corresponding to two years of Swedish emissions. The previous government instead sold, as Niclas Malmberg says, the leftover allowances to others to release.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-207	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Climate Action, for your answer. In your reply, you not only indicated what I asked about, how many allowances have been cancelled in Sweden, but you also mentioned the major problem in this context, namely the irresponsiblely generous allocation of allowances by the European Union. Here Sweden has acted to reform the system. I can then widen the question to read: How much will the reform of the emissions trading system in Sweden reduce the number of allowances within the EU?
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-209	Mr President, I would like to This is crucial for us to keep the Paris Agreement. Following a proposal that we put on the table, which in Brussels is actually called the Swedish proposal, we have now reached an agreement with the European Parliament that from 2023 at least 2 billion allowances will be scrapped. Thereafter, each year allowances exceeding one year's emissions within the EU will be scrapped, and then the price will go up.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-211	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of the European Union Ann Linde. I would like to raise the issue of Sweden and Brexit. As the Minister is well aware, there are a number of dimensions in this from a Swedish point of view. It is true that the European Commission has recently put forward a proposal for a withdrawal agreement between the EU and the UK, where Sweden has been active in various ways. But I have also noted that the National Board of Trade, perhaps on the initiative of the Minister, has submitted a report and an investigation into Brexit from a Swedish point of view. It highlights the problem of customs duties, such as 10% for passenger cars and 22% for lorries, as well as hassle and administration. The question is therefore: what does the Minister intend to use this material for in order to assert Sweden's interests in the Brexit negotiations?
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-214	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Mr Håkansson from Helsingborg. I think the 260-page investigation that the National Board of Trade has shown us is extremely interesting, because it shows what I have said all along: Brexit is just bad! Then the question is what we can do so that it will still be as good as possible for Sweden, and to get it as good as possible, we must have as broad a free trade agreement as possible. There are countries that want to narrow it down and just have it like Canada or South Korea, and that would not be good for Sweden. What I can do and drive in Europe is to try to get as much as possible and as many horizontal issues into this free trade agreement as possible – not just sectors such as cars, shoes and so on, but things that apply to all areas. We will try to do this.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-219	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. There are different dimensions to this, because if you look at it in the future, it is also about popular support for Swedish EU membership as a whole. Although there are most problems right now, it is therefore of great importance that we turn this into an opportunity for Sweden and for Swedish participation in the European Union's joint development. How does the Minister view this? Life science has been mentioned as a sector that we can benefit from.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-221	Mr President, I would like to I fully agree with Mr Håkansson that this can also be a very negative thing for the view of the European Union if it is handled incorrectly. But for Sweden, we want both good relations with the UK, even though they leave, and of course continued good relations in the EU. The best thing we can do is to see how big we can get it, and there we push on all the time to get as many parts as possible in an agreement.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-224	Mr President, I would like to I humbly thank you for the opportunity to ask Minister Lövin a question. Over 700 000 Rohingyes have been expelled from their homes in the state of Rakhine, Burma/ Myanmar. Now there are over 1 million of them in camps in Bangladesh. More than half of those who have fled are children, thousands of whom are now orphans. The testimony they carry relates to executions, rapes and countless villages that have been burned and leveled. Crimes against humanity and ethnic cleansing are appropriate words to use. Mass graves have been found, and journalists who dare to report on this are imprisoned. This is the fastest growing humanitarian crisis in modern times. Although we know that the military has rigged the constitution, the electoral laws and the whole state apparatus to retain power, we would still have hoped for more. We had hoped for more of Aung San Suu Kyi.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-229	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Olle Thorell, for an extremely important question! Sweden has constantly drawn the attention of the Burmese regime to the fact that what is happening is unacceptable and that the Rohingyan refugees must be guaranteed their security and be able to return, and that those who have committed these enormous crimes must be held accountable. This is a huge humanitarian crisis and not only that: the testimony of the refugees is evidence of systematic and widespread abuse of civilians, which indicates that this may be a crime against humanity. Sweden, among other things, is working in the UN Security Council and in the Human Rights Council to provide a solution to the crisis, to enable the Rohingyans to return safely and voluntarily and to hold those responsible accountable. We are working in Europe for strong messages and clear action. The EU should strengthen the current arms embargo and take action against military leaders responsible for the abuses.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-233	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I would like to give the Minister for Development the opportunity to develop the answer somewhat, because it is also the case that the UN Special Envoy is not given access to Rakhine. The few rohingyes that are left and have not fled across the border to Bangladesh and Cox's Bazar area have a completely intolerable situation, and when the monsoon rains come, it will not be possible to live in Cox's Bazar.
i-89b09abcad8f2c89-235	Mr President, I would like to I am very aware of the terrible situation. I visited the state of Rakhine two years ago myself. It is a very vulnerable situation to the Rohingyes there, and it was already then. We also work with Swedish development cooperation to link the humanitarian and long-term support. Of course, we are looking at how we can best support the vulnerable groups in Myanmar and also the refugees in Bangladesh.
