i-42ffa84fb1231c55-0	Madam President, I would like It is not a normal budget day today. I haven't walked the usual budget walk here. This is because, on 25 September, more than half of the newly elected MPs voted against the question of whether the Prime Minister had sufficient support in the Riksdag. Since then, Sweden has been governed by a transitional government. After an election, the budget proposal shall be submitted within three weeks of the entry into force of a new government, but no later than 15 November. Today is 15 November, and no new government has taken office. That is why I stand here as Minister of Finance in a transitional government and present the budget. This is the first time in Sweden's history that it happens. Today, we are not presenting a red-green budget proposal but a transitional government's budget proposal – a scaled-down budget without a new party political orientation. The aim is to provide good conditions for a new government to propose changes based on its political orientation. This is our way of taking responsibility in the situation we find ourselves in – a unique situation for Swedish politics. In working on this budget, we have broken new ground given that this is the first time a transitional government has presented a budget. We have done our utmost to lay the foundations for a new good practice through talks with other parties in the Riksdag and, of course, by following the rules that exist for the budget work. Madam President, I would like The budget proposal therefore follows the general rules that, among other things, stipulate that it should contain a financial plan, that the government should account for how the surplus target is achieved, and that the budget proposal should cover all revenue and expenditure, as well as other payments that affect the government's borrowing needs. The Government has also taken into account the memorandum from the 1990 Prime Minister's Committee, which was revised during the Moderate-led Government in 2014. Some guidelines have been issued for the practical work during a transitional government period. The Constitutional Committee has also referred to these guidelines when examining the powers of transitional governments. According to the guidelines, in the event of a very lengthy change of government, a transitional government may have to submit a budget proposal and probably also a bill with proposals for changes to the current year's budget to the Riksdag. Such a proposal should not, as stated above, contain proposals with a clear party political orientation. Furthermore, it follows from the form of government that the last budget decided will continue to apply if at the beginning of the financial year Parliament has not decided on a new budget for the state. Against this background, the Government has assessed that the budget proposal for 2019 should be drawn up on the basis of the decided budget for 2018. In addition to this starting point, the government has formulated six principles for the budget work which we believe, following contacts with representatives of the Moderates, the Center Party, the Left Party, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals, that the Riksdag can accept. In cases where these adjustments can be financed or where funding has already been reported to the Riksdag, we also propose such associated funding. Madam President, I would like The fact that the 2019 budget is drawn up on the basis of the decided 2018 budget means that both planned expenditure increases and appropriations reductions for 2019 will not occur. This means, for example, that proposals for increased general state grants for municipalities and increased funding for the Police Authority, as announced in last year's budget proposal, are not included in this budget. On the other hand, some temporary initiatives, such as staffing in the care of the elderly and the renovation of school premises, are being extended. I will now review the six principles that are being formulated. The first principle means that appropriations used for management and investment purposes are converted in the usual way. The appropriations for regulatory transfer systems are adjusted on the basis of changes in macroeconomic developments as well as changes in volumes. This principle is met by over 240 so-called PLO grants. These are, above all, administrative appropriations from public authorities, where they receive higher appropriations as wages and rents rise. But it also hits the 40 so-called PLK grants, i.e. statutory grants that are adjusted to take into account changes in child benefits based on how many children are born in Sweden. This also applies to unemployment insurance, parental insurance, health insurance and other things. The second principle is that appropriations are adjusted in accordance with agreed laws, regulations, international agreements, legally binding agreements or EU acts. These include infrastructure, where Trafikverket works with a long planning horizon and where the planned efforts for 2019 have already been tied up in the agreements entered into. It is also about the escalation of school initiatives from the School Commission's proposal for 2019. There is a decision by the Riksdag, and the Swedish National Agency for Education has therefore already given municipalities information on how large a contribution they will receive next year. These are also full-year effects of, for example, child benefit, which was raised in March 2018 and therefore there were only ten-month increases in last year's budget. For 2019, of course, this needs to be for twelve months. This also applies to additional costs for the pharmaceutical benefit, where the state is bound to reimburse the county councils. The third principle means that appropriations will be adjusted if the Riksdag has decided to move purposes and activities between areas of expenditure. These are mainly service offices, where the activities are transferred from the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Pension Agency to the State Service Centre. The funds will go with them. The fourth principle means that appropriations are adjusted if necessary to maintain the necessary social functions. It is a principle that has been applied restrictively, and it is then also necessary for the change in appropriations to come now. It cannot support an amending budget; the money is needed at the beginning of the year. These include funding for the Coast Guard, which might otherwise have to close down stations and lay off staff. It is also about resources for defence equipment. The fifth principle is that, in order for activities based on an authorisation to order for the following year to be given the opportunity to be carried out to the same extent in 2019 – 2021, the level of appropriations for all years will be adjusted taking into account the level of expected compliance with the financial commitments for 2019. This is about dealing with otherwise severe cuts in appropriations for some areas for the years after 2019. The sixth principle deals with proposals which are politically uncontroversial and which cannot be implemented during the current financial year. They are included in cases where there is a consensus on the proposals. It is about the announced next step in the reduction of pensioner's tax, which can only be implemented on an annual basis. This means that the third step in the elimination of this tax gap can now be implemented from 1 January 2019. For this there is very broad support in the Riksdag. Madam President, I would like It is labour-intensive to produce a budget bill. It is many long days and even evenings. This has also been the case this time. At the same time, it is far less inspiring for many of those involved, as well as for myself, to develop a budget without a reform agenda. But, of course, we have tried to make the most of the situation and take responsibility in this particular situation. The result is not the ideal budget of a parliamentary party. Some activities will benefit temporarily and others will be disadvantaged in relation to previously estimated levels of funding. But it is important to remember that this is something that can be handled by a new government during the current financial year. With this approach and the scaled-down budget bill, the government has endeavoured to create good practice and to deal responsibly with this unique situation while at the same time providing a new government with the means to shape its own economic policy. A new government will want to make an impression, and we therefore assume that this budget in 2019 will undergo greater changes than is usual. It will hardly last the year out. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to express my appreciation in this House for the talks that the Government has held with the aforementioned parliamentary parties in order to formulate a new practice in Swedish politics. There have been constructive conversations.
i-42ffa84fb1231c55-21	Madam President, I would like For the first time in Sweden, a budget from a transitional government has been put on the table of Parliament. So it is not a red-green budget. It is not an expression of the policy that we Social Democrats want to see for 2019. It is a scaled-down budget without any new party political orientation. However, as the Minister for Finance has just stated in his speech, it is a product that gives a new government a good chance of putting its mark on politics. It is clear today that the bourgeois parties who, together with the Swedish Democrats, voted away the current government did not have a plan for what was to come instead. Madam President, I would like I would like to say something about the outcome of the policy pursued by the Red Green Government. Today, more than 300 000 more people have a job to go to than when that government took office in 2014. Over 100,000 more people work in welfare. The employment rate is the highest in the EU and the highest in Sweden since before the 1990s crisis. The proportion of people dependent on benefits has not been so low since 1981. The knowledge boost with, among other things, a professional adult has been expanded and includes a full 100 000 new training places. 28,000 more people work in school. And preschool groups are the smallest in 25 years. After a long period of weakened knowledge results, international measurements such as PISA and Timss show that the knowledge results in Sweden are rising again. The teacher's salary lift has given 67 000 teachers increased wages by an average of SEK 2 600 a month. The government has raised child benefit. And steps have been taken to completely eliminate the tax gap between pensioners and wage earners. This product also takes another step. Investment in community-building has narrowed the gap and strengthened our common economy. Madam President, I would like At the same time, the government has built new shelters for worse times. The government deficit of EUR 60 billion at the beginning of the last parliamentary term has turned into a large surplus. The fact that the government has saved over 170 billion SEK during the last term of office means that the public debt has been amortised to be at the lowest level this year since 1977. The fact that there are now economic muscles is important. We are all seeing major challenges ahead. The next decade increases the number of people in Sweden who are over 80 years of age by 50 percent. There will be 300 000 more older – hopefully we will all be older, but there will be 300 000 more that we regard as older. At the same time, there will be 200 000 more children in Sweden. Of course, it is extremely gratifying that we live longer and that many have the happiness of having children. But it also requires resources in many important social functions. Health care, school and care need comprehensive reinforcements. More than 150 000 people need to be employed in welfare by 2026. We need to build 700 new retirement homes and as many preschools. Regardless of where you live in Sweden, you should feel confident that the police and the entire judiciary are equipped with employees and tools to combat the crimes. The police need even more resources. Crimes, violence and weapons must be combated with the full force of the democratic rule of law. The Swedish Armed Forces also need additions. Sweden should be safe. Although the time to get the first job has halved, new arrivals need to get to work faster. There are 120 000 vacancies in Sweden. Employers want someone who can come and work in their business. At the same time, many are unemployed. Substantial efforts will be needed to strengthen matching: education and language requirements, validation and complementary training, duty and right, requirements and opportunities. More clearly also needs to be done to combat climate change. The gaps in our society must be reduced so that they do not tear Sweden apart. It is in this direction that we Social Democrats wanted – and want – to continue to work. For 2019, the government had announced five additional welfare billions. This involved major investments in climate, police, defence and special resources for socio-economically vulnerable areas. It is money and efforts that are still needed. Not least after yesterday's vote, we see the need for a strong government that can tackle the problems we see through cross-block cooperation. If we Social Democrats are allowed to take office as a government, we want to put an amending budget as soon as possible to do just that.
i-42ffa84fb1231c55-37	Mrs. Old President! On 20 July 2016, the so-called Temporary Asylum Act entered into force following a decision by this House. It was a reasonably desperate measure from a equally desperate government. If we had been listened to at an earlier stage, these measures would, of course, have been taken and much more far earlier. Before becoming a transitional government, the government has shown quite clearly that it is not capable of dealing with migration issues in a serious or controlled manner. Somewhat later, the so-called High School Act was put forward and voted. It is a law aimed at providing residence permits to nearly 10 000 adults, preferably Afghan men without need of protection. The law was so substandard and poorly designed that it could not even be tried in a court of law when it was in place. The signals sent out by the government during the previous term of office may be perceived as slightly sprawling, to describe it mildly. My question is whether the Social Democrats, given the parliamentary situation with a transitional government and so on, are prepared to either permanent or at least extend the current temporary law which otherwise loses its effect in the coming years.
i-42ffa84fb1231c55-41	Mrs. Old President! The answer to Oscar Sjöstedt's question is that Sweden needs a new government that can return to Parliament and address many major and important issues. We, the Minister for Finance and I, have spoken about such a question here today, namely the need to come back with a new economic policy. None of the parties in this debate think this budget is good, but we see before us that a new government returns to Parliament with an economic policy. In the same way, there are a great many other issues, including those raised by Oscar Sjöstedt. A new government is needed to resolve this issue as well. Then we are socialists – just as I have now explained the most important measures that we would like to see in a new amending budget – also for a line on this issue. We believe that the migration policy that we now have should be firm. That is the answer to Oscar Sjöstedt's question.
i-42ffa84fb1231c55-44	Mrs. Old President! Thank you for your answer. I think we can agree that a government is good. For once, we can agree. Parliament is still a legislative body. In some sense, it is Parliament's fault that we do not have a government, but we can still take the initiative. I ask the question in this way: if there is an initiative from Parliament that lands on the table of Parliament, how does the Socialist parliamentary group feel about such an initiative? It is not that the whole Social Democrats have become a transitional party, is it?
i-42ffa84fb1231c55-46	Mrs. Old President! The Social Democrats are a responsible party which thinks it is reasonable at this point to use all the power in the political system to get a new government in place. I believe that all the citizens who voted for us believe that this is the main task of this Parliament. It is the government that governs the kingdom, it says in the Constitution. Then there is reason to ensure that there is a government that can fully rule the kingdom. It is clear that, together with other parties, Oscar Sjöstedt has put Sweden in this situation. A functioning government has been voted out without a plan for what will follow. This is the kind of chaos party in Swedish politics that the Swedish Democrats have been for a very long time. Oscar Sjöstedt is happy in that situation. You can really see that's the way it is. The rest of us think it would be good for Sweden with more order and with making sure that a government is in place.
i-42ffa84fb1231c55-49	Mrs. Old President! Today is 67 days since election day. A few weeks after that, Stefan Lövven's government was deposed. Today, the transitional government's budget proposal has been submitted to the Riksdag. I would first like to address Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson and underline what I have said before. I think that the transitional government has handled the situation well in these weeks. The principles on which the bill is based are reasonable. I would also like to send greetings to the Ministry of Finance. I know there's a lot of work behind this luntane. Mrs. Old President! The work is now taking place here in the Riksdag. And it does so in a situation where the boom in the Swedish economy is peaking this year and where GDP growth is slowing down next year. It is a situation where uncertainties and risks in the world are greater than in a long time. One example is that the risk of an escalating spiral in world trade with new barriers to trade is significant. Another example is the way in which the Italian Government conducts economic policy with large budget deficits and an even larger public debt as a result. These were some examples of the concerns that can have a huge impact on the Swedish economy. It is in the international situation, with the transitional government's budget as the starting point, that we in Parliament can ensure that we take responsibility and build resilience in the Swedish economy. We now also have the opportunity to take responsibility for what citizens expect us to prioritise. We will see to it that the most urgent problems we see in society are resolved. These are problems that we Moderates often talked about in the election movement and that still persist, and sometimes they have worsened. Anyone who lives in Sweden should know that when you need the support of society most, then it should work. If you need a place in a retirement home, there should be a place. Psychiatry should be able to meet up and provide care to those who most need it. And one should know that the state does its main tasks, in the work of creating security for the inhabitants. It is a matter of police and defence needing the resources to carry out their mission. The social contract must be restored. This requires resources in a budget, but also reforms. During the four years that have passed, many of the acute problems have been allowed to grow. But, Madam President, the underlying problems in the Swedish economy have also become bigger. I would like to devote some time to this very point. A key part of economic policy is growth and employment policy, that is, what is often referred to as structural policy. We are now leaving a term of office that I would like to describe as clinically free from reforms in this area. Then you can ask: What does it matter? What are the consequences? In the long term, it is one of the most important things in economic policy, to focus patiently on increased growth and full employment. Otherwise, Sweden will have more difficulty in coping with welfare. We have now seen the results of the policies that have been conducted in recent years. Last week, the European Commission's forecast showed that Sweden will have lower per capita growth over the next three years than almost all other countries in the EU. It's one thing to take seriously. Forecasts from the IMF and other institutions provide a similar picture. Growth, and above all per capita growth, is thus weak despite a strong boom. This means that it risks becoming even weaker when the economic cycle turns around. What does lower growth mean? Yes, it means less room for wage increases and thus less economic opportunities for households. But it also leads to less resources in welfare than otherwise would have been the case. An underlying problem is growth per capita. There is also an underlying problem in the labour market. We have high unemployment among foreign born and high long-term unemployment in the midst of a boom. Mrs. Old President! If Sweden is to cope with long-term welfare growth, meet the challenge of demographic change, reforms are needed for stronger growth and full employment. The previous government has not only turned a blind eye to the underlying problems. Not only have there been no growth reforms. Moreover, politics has affected growth in the wrong direction. Since 2014, Sweden has performed worse than comparable countries mainly as a result of policies that have made entrepreneurship and growth difficult. Taxes have been increased by 60 billion, regulations have increased, reforms in the housing market have been totally absent. The work line has been eroded and the driving forces for work have been reduced. It can be easy to dazzle in a boom and not see the underlying problems, but the worrying clouds have been clear. What can and should be done, Madam Old President? A new economic reform agenda is now needed. Sweden has in many respects good conditions for even better growth. The population is well educated and quickly embraces new technologies. The business community is innovative with extensive research and development activities, and the possibility of funding is good. However, the next year will require more key reforms to boost growth. I would like to mention three areas. Firstly, we must have a school, an education system, world class. The fact that the school is of the highest class will be crucial for us to create a strong Sweden in the future. But it is also the best way to ensure that all children have the same opportunities and opportunities for life. Secondly, a major tax reform is needed that encourages and rewards effort better than today. We should be a country in which people with high qualifications choose to work and a country in which the most successful companies choose to invest. For these decisions, taxes and tax levels play a central role. The fact that marginal taxes are the highest in the world is not something we should be proud of, on the contrary. Thirdly, reforms are needed to improve matching and skills provision. We have talked a lot over the last few years about the need for more jobs with lower qualification requirements, and that is right. Together with the fact that it becomes more profitable to work, this is important to achieve integration. What Sweden really needs, however, is more jobs that have the highest qualification requirements in the world. In a labour market where everything that can be digitised is also digitised, the demands on people to equip themselves with new skills increase. What we now see above all is a longer working life where skills development and career changes are more the rule than the exception. Then companies, but also we in the public sector, must create good ways of changing working life. Mrs. Old President! Over the years ahead, Sweden needs an economic reform agenda that strengthens growth and focuses on full employment in order to strengthen welfare. We need an economic policy that both achieves the surplus target and equips us for the next recession. At the same time, we must be able to solve all the urgent problems that we see here and now. All parties in Parliament now have the opportunity to do so. When we present a budget motion later, it will be marked by the Alliance's reform agenda. We intend to take steps to respond to the major reform needs that Sweden has, tackle integration problems, strengthen resources for the police and defence and strengthen resources for welfare so that we can also shorten the care queues. We will ensure that we start a journey with an economic reform agenda for stronger growth so that we can meet the commitments of the future. I look forward to coming back and presenting our proposals within a few weeks. Of course, I'd rather do it together with my alliance colleagues. We are the only team here in Parliament that came to the election day with a joint reform agenda that can make a real difference in Sweden. The reforms that we implemented together in 2006–2014 just led to increased employment and growth. Now it's time for a new move. We will come back with this.
i-42ffa84fb1231c55-76	Mrs. Old President! Let us use this opportunity to take a closer look at the situation of four years of socialist ecnomic politics. The single most important and accurate measure for measuring the development of prosperity in one country is growth per capita, i.e. GDP development in the whole economy divided by the number of inhabitants. This is where Sweden is the single worst compared to all 28 EU Member States, that is, including the UK, according to a completely new report by the IMF, the International Monetary Fund. The explanation is very simple. This is due to a failed economic policy pursued by the now de-polluted Finance Minister in combination with a completely uncontrolled immigration policy. As far as unemployment is concerned, Sweden is now in the eighteenth place in the EU. It is far from the more honourable tenth place that we had when the government launched its target and even further away from the target of the lowest unemployment in itself throughout the European Union. Here too, the declaration is a failed economic policy and an uncontrolled immigration policy. There is an excessive reliance on tax-subsidised fake jobs that do not lead anywhere. The question is whether you really have any faith. Maybe it's more like cleaning up the statistics a little bit. The establishment mission is a complete fiasco. As many as 93 percent of those enrolled do not go on to a real job after a completed assignment, even though we are plowing down billions after billions of dollars of taxpayers' money. The fully subsidised so-called additional services provide even gloomier reading. Nearly 19 000 people have jobs that are auxiliary services, or so-called modern standby jobs. With a finding of about a hundred real new jobs at a cost of SEK 3 billion, it gives 30 million in cost per individual new job. It is a completely failed labour market policy. What is demonstrably working – the clearest example is perhaps the RUT deduction – one is against, and it has deteriorated. The interesting thing is not only that the number of jobs in the economy is falling, but it is, I think, to look at the entrepreneurs operating in the RUT sector. It then turns out that the majority, 52%, are women. In terms of business as a whole, only three out of ten entrepreneurs are women. The sector in which women as entrepreneurs are therefore over-represented is the government's strong opposition. Even more interesting is that of these female entrepreneurs almost every two, 49 per cent, were born in another country. The government is therefore pursuing a policy towards female entrepreneurship, towards greater gender equality in the business sector and towards greater integration. The same pattern can be seen in the private welfare sector, which the government wants to dismantle completely. In the health and social care sector, 65 per cent of entrepreneurs are women. In addition to pursuing a direct anti-business policy, there has also been anti-business rhetoric. It has been insinuated that entrepreneurs are primarily prospective tax evaders. Entrepreneurs have been called those who hang out at Stureplan. There has been a desire to introduce additional taxation on the country's entrepreneurs. And there has been a desire to increase the cost of sick pay for entrepreneurs. Mrs. Old President! During the current term of office we will have to prepa Sweden for recession. It will not be completely painless, but we can make it as mild as possible from a political point of view. The state will have to take greater financial responsibility for the local government sector, largely as a result of having to accept a large number of new arrivals and then had no plan whatsoever for this. The municipalities will have to make tax increases if the state does not take responsibility for the situation caused by the state in the first place. This will be included in the budget exercise that we will be presenting shortly. In addition, we will have tax incentives for both employees and pensioners. If we were to decide, there would be no income from retirement at all. Instead, income from service shall include both current and previous work. Our preliminary distribution policy analyses also make it clear that all income groups and all age groups are the winners of our policies. However, those who are a little older and those who earn a little less will be the biggest winners with our budget policy. Furthermore, we will invest directly in entrepreneurs rather than having these massive subsidies and costs of a misguided labour market and integration policy. Reducing employers' contributions with a clear focus on the smallest enterprises is the single most effective labour market policy measure. It is just as much about facing the coming recession. If we make the right investments on entrepreneurs now, we can slow down an overly marked rise in unemployment then. Let me also say a few words about the fact that we are currently dealing with a so-called transitional budget from a transitional government. The reason for this is that there are a number of parties and, in particular, a number of party leaders in this House – I do not think I need to mention them by name – who collectively show a degree of maturity in parity with a very young child. They are obviously prepared to hold the entire kingdom hostage only in order to satisfy their inflated ego. It is about on such a mental level that parts of this institution are currently in existence. They are adults who are unable to communicate with other adults because they disagree with each other. I heard from a teacher that that kind of behavior had never been accepted in her classroom. Talk to Jimmie Åkesson! I've known him for 16 years, and I can promise you, he won't bite. At least he hasn't done it so far. Finally, I would like to call on those parts of the former Alliance that are still interested in dealing with politics instead of symbolism to put a comprehensive budget motion here on Parliament's table. What the transitional government has now presented is not an unpolitical budget but an extension of four years of socialist rule. I can already say here and now that, in such a draft budget, a counter-proposal, we will see urgent tax relief for pensioners, for employees and small businesses, urgent efforts on the Police Authority and on the Swedish Armed Forces, measures to seriously start short-term care, efforts on the poorest elderly and reduced migration-related costs, there is a very high probability that such a budget motion will be supported by me and my 61 parliamentary coalitions in the Swedish Democrats' parliamentary group in the event that our own draft budget falls. In any event, we will put our own proposal on the table of Parliament shortly.
i-42ffa84fb1231c55-91	Mrs. Old President! This is, to say the least, a special budget debate and a special political autumn. I would like to start by saying a few words about the transitional budget that we have received today at Parliament's table. This is the first time in modern Swedish political history something similar is happening – that we have a transitional government that in the Ministry of Finance produces a transitional budget and that the formation of the government is drawing up that long. The basis for this document and the principles that we – several of the parties in Parliament – have discussed are about Sweden's functioning. People who work in government agencies should continue to be able to go to work. People who have different forms of compensation should know that the things we take for granted continue to work in the way we are used to even after the end of the year. I think it has been very positive and constructive to discuss how a transitional government should act in this new situation. Of course, the main responsibility for this constructive spirit lies with the relevant Transitional State Councils. I think that something gives a good hope for the term of office and for the term of office to come. We have many major challenges that I would like to come back to. The best thing would be for us to achieve the broadest possible consensus on reform needs. I would like to point out that no matter how parliamentary treatment of this transitional budget lands, with the principles underlying the transitional budget, we have done something good for Sweden and the fiscal framework. Future transitional governments, to the extent that we will see them, can look at this process to see how it is reasonable to act in such a situation. The question is clear: how do we act now? Some parties have already come up with their answers. It is quite clear that there are two grandeurs, two lines, which are totally or partly opposed to each other. On the one hand, there are obvious advantages to a strict budgetary process in a difficult parliamentary situation. On the other hand, there are perfectly natural wills from the parties to bring forward their own policies in this difficult political situation and to be clear about what they stand for in a situation where there is great interest in political choices. The Center Party's announcement is not possible today. We can only conclude that there is a continuation of the matter. This is the first budget debate of the term of office. Let us therefore take the opportunity to establish what we must devote this term of office to! As mentioned earlier by several speakers, Sweden has major reform needs. We have to deal with things that we haven't done anything about for a very long time. These are matters which, not least, I myself mentioned time and again in debates similar to this in the previous parliamentary term. Central parts of Swedish society must be reformed and modernised. We have a housing market that works far too badly. We have a labour market that, at the peak of a boom, is not really delivering and where there is a great risk that imbalances will increase as the economic cycle progresses. As far as the tax system is concerned, it was about 30 years ago that we made a major move last time. Since then, a number of widely differing decisions have been taken. This has created a system in which both people and companies find it more difficult than in many of our neighbouring competitor countries to know how to pay their taxes. Not infrequently, you have to take the help of various consultants. For example, a Swedish company spends 45 percent more time on tax administration than its Norwegian colleagues. That's what I and the Center Party think is bad. In order to add a fourth point after housing, the labour market and taxes, we need to address the talks that took place before the elections in the area of infrastructure. Here, Sweden has been underinvesting for a long time. We must build the new Sweden. What is common to many of these challenges and problems is the need for liberal solutions based on flexibility and an understanding of the functioning of the modern economy. In a situation where an economy like the Swedish in many ways is based on movement, flexibility and that things change, we have a system and a building of society that tells us in many ways to be read. We have a housing market that works best if you don't move. We have a labour market that works best if you stay with the same employer. This is becoming less and less reasonable, less modern and a growing problem. I and the Center Party hope that we can get an effective government in place that takes the initiative and makes broad agreements in the Swedish Parliament, so that we face these problems and do something about them while there is still something like good times in the back to facilitate the process. The last time Sweden took hold of similar structural difficulties was after a very deep 90s crisis. It was only then that the then Swedish political leadership gathered to really solve the problems we knew we had had for a long time. I hope that a crisis of similar magnitude will not be required to bring us together in this House to do what we all know needs to be done. Mrs. Old President! This House has two main tasks this autumn. We shall adopt a budget that will ensure that Sweden continues to function and that the country and its various good things in the form of social security as well as public authorities and much more, the n 1 January works as well as 31 December. But we must also form an effective government. Sweden deserves us to succeed in both of these tasks.
i-42ffa84fb1231c55-103	Mrs. Old President! The election result was 144 - 143 for the red - green. Despite this, and despite the fact that they had no new government founder to appoint, the bourgeois parties with the great losers of the elections placed the Moderates at the head together with the Swedish Democrats the Minister of State and ensured that we had a transitional government. Since then, we are in a political vacuum. The Alliance didn't have a common plan at the time. Now, 67 days later, there is no such thing yet. On the contrary, the alliance parties are increasingly apart. The distance between them seems to be as long as the distance in our elongated land. The Alliance must now be seen as the former Alliance. That is why we also have a transitional budget to deal with. It is awaiting the entry into force of a new government capable of making proposals for changes to the state's budget which such a government considers appropriate in its political direction. During the previous term of office, the Left Party, in cooperation with the Government, has ensured that very good has been done. The number of people employed in welfare has risen sharply, unemployment has fallen and the employment rate has risen. Employment opportunities have been strengthened by training initiatives, labour market policies and driving licences. The distribution profile of the budgets presented has moved in the right direction and, above all, women and people on low incomes have benefited. Toll free mammography and cell screening is aimed at no one should miss a cancer tumor or cell changes because the wallet is thin. Free holiday activities for children, free bus during summer holidays for young people and reduced fees for the cultural school aim to enable all young people to participate, meet and enjoy richer leisure time. Free medicines for children and free glasses for children and young people aim to ensure that no parent should have to choose between paying the rent or collecting the child's medicine and that no child should have to be without the glasses it needs. Adding 10 billion to health care, school and care is about increasing quality and increasing access to welfare. Increases in the level of sickness benefits, increases in health insurance and unemployment insurance and flooring, increases in housing allowances, increases in child support for single parents and increases in child allowances are about creating financial security, providing dignity, reducing people's financial vulnerability, reducing child poverty and increasing people's freedom. Some seem to want to call such a policy extreme. I want to say that it is about dignity and justice. On the other hand, it is extreme to want to reduce people's wages, introduce market rents, deal with Nuon and Postnord. I think that's extreme. Or tearing up LAS, people's job security. Or to think that people who are sick get well from finding out that they get reduced tax if they go back to work. Extremely, it is to make a jointly funded welfare market and allow unlimited private profits on tax revenue. I'd say that's extreme. Mrs. Old President! What Sweden needs for the forthcoming term of office is a policy of economic equality in which people's willingness to contribute is taken into account. It is a policy of cohesion, hope and faith in the future. Such a policy can never be helped by the Right. Sweden is the country where income inequality has grown fastest for several decades. The income differences escalated under the bourgeois government. But we know, and the vast majority of people know today, that it is not good for the development of society or economic growth, with a sharp increase in income gaps, but rather the opposite. Nevertheless, Sweden has the least redistributive tax system among the EU's 15 core countries and the most lopsided distribution of wealth together with the US and Brazil. In fact, if we continue to increase income differentials at the rate we have achieved over the past few decades, we will have passed the United States sometime in the 2030s. Inequality is evident in our everyday lives. We don't live in the same neighborhoods anymore, and our children don't go together in school. Some of us get sicker than others and live less time. Child poverty is widespread among some children, while other children can go on even more foreign holidays, not to mention the ageing poverty that is spreading. Private tax-funded companies are allowed to embed our common welfare. Nurses, caretakers, cleaning women, taxi drivers and cashiers do not have the power to control their jobs. They can't, like some others, take a much - needed long lunch when they need it or do errands on working hours, and they don't even have time to train. The work is toiling on bodies and health. A lot of people don't even know if they have a job next week or next month. This obviously affects economic conditions such as where you can live, how many sick days you have, what pension you can get and whether it can even live on. It affects which car you can buy and if you can afford a summer cottage or mountain holiday on the sports holiday. It even affects how long you will live. Class is important for the lives we ourselves and our children are allowed to live. The task of the Left Party is to conduct a policy that equalises class differences and life conditions. We do not want a tax system rigged for the richest, but for ordinary people. We want redistribution. Some parties think we should put groups against groups. Instead, we think that we should change the political decisions that have increased inequality and underfunded welfare. Apart from a tax policy that converts from high-income to low-income earners, there is obviously a need for economic reinforcement in welfare. There is a need for improved working conditions and increased salaries in the disability and elderly care sectors and in health care, preschool and school. Efforts are needed to ensure that every kid is able to manage the school with full grades and that adults who need to change are given the opportunity to have an education that can provide jobs and good future opportunities. The security of the labour market must be increased, and the power and influence of the work must be with those who do the work. The housing shortage must be removed with rental apartments for reasonable rents. Of course, those who need assistance should have assistance, and we should have health insurance that can be trusted. People who have come to our country will be able to bring their families here. We need to reduce emissions here at home and internationally. We need to do everything we can and use all our tools to reduce them. This requires joint solutions and actions. We in the rich world cannot continue to consume earth's resources in the way we do. We cannot take that power at the expense of our children and grandchildren. Of course, a transitional budget will not solve this. Nor is it intended to do so. It's here because we have the situation we have. It's not what we want. It's not what anyone wants. It is precisely a transitional budget, the practice of which is now to be examined. Although the Prime Minister candidate of the Moderates was voted out yesterday and they have no new Prime Minister or Government to appoint, the Moderates have announced that they intend to exercise on the transitional budget. That would be strange, to say the least. If you have just lost a prime minister's vote with very large figures, you probably need to realise that in that situation you should not push through your economic policy in order to get the power to govern anyway. We in the Left Party expect a responsible and orderly process with the transitional budget, that it should pass through the Riksdag as it was intended when the legislation was adopted and on which the principles on which it is built are intended to ensure. This is a time when climate change threatens the future of all of us and calls for solidarity and solutions. It is a time when the vast majority have realised that ever-growing income inequality is unsustainable and creates worse conditions for a country's development and economic growth. It is a time when fascism and racism advance their positions. Then no one should turn a blind eye to research into climate change, inequality and the forces that exploit the vacuum that has arisen and want to explain the changes in power and the changing balance of power in the labour market with cultural identity and the ethnification of social relations. Then no one should rely on a far-right party to get through their government or economic policy. In time, when a new government is in place, it may present its budget. We all have different ways of dealing with it as opposition, government, negotiators or as a dialogue party. It is a reasonable and responsible order.
i-42ffa84fb1231c55-130	Mrs. Old President! We have a lengthy formation of government in a difficult and difficult situation. The transitional government has therefore submitted a budget proposal in accordance with our constitutional framework, which is laid down in parliamentary order and budgetary law. This makes this a substantially different parliamentary debate and a budgetary process that is not like any of the people I have experienced. This does not mean that it is unimportant – quite the contrary. First of all, I would like to thank the transitional government and its officials for their work on the budget proposal. The laborious work of forecasting and recalculating appropriations according to current guidelines and the work to develop practice-setting principles for how to carry out transitional budgetary work has been serious. It is the transitional government that is responsible for these principles and for their application, but I note that there is broad agreement in this House on these principles. They also seem to have been applied reasonably. There is therefore no reason to criticise the transitional government – on the contrary. Of course, the fact that the principles are reasonable and the work is purely budgetary in nature does not mean that all content is good. The policy which, in the elections, had a reduced turnout and whose prime representative is Prime Minister Stefan Löfven, was voted out by this House. Prolongations mean that in previous years insufficient, unnecessary or directly inappropriate red-green proposals are now being extended. The transitional budget also means that the inability to make the necessary reforms is preserved for a further period of time. This, of course, is not the fault of the transitional government, but a consequence of the policy of the last parliamentary term combined with a lengthy process of government formation. We do not yet see what the transitional budget is looking at, that is, a transition to a new government with a new direction of policy. At the same time, the social problems of reality have unfortunately not been placed in the same position as government formation. In some cases, the problems have worsened. It is possible to see that it is a new government that has to rid itself entirely of the new policy, and that is a reasonable starting point for a transitional government. However, Parliament is not a transitional Parliament but a newly elected Parliament with full powers and full responsibility for politics. It is also the Riksdag that owns the financial power, that is, the right of Sweden's citizens to tax themselves through their representatives. I and the Christian Democrats believe that the urgent need for reform means that Parliament should now seek to seize the opportunity to act, even in the absence of a new government. That is why I believe that the Alliance in the Riksdag should already try to make progress in the budgetary process that is now under way in Sweden. With great awareness of the significant restrictions imposed by both practical and preparatory and constitutional conditions, we should do what we can to get good reforms and the right resources in place as soon as possible. Mrs. Old President! Reforms and a new policy for Sweden cannot be a task for a transitional government. But it should be a task for Parliament in the absence of a government that does this. That is why the Alliance should put forward a joint budget motion in the first place. However, even if several different budgetary motions are added, there is the possibility of a joint reservation in the Finance Committee, where changes are made to the transitional budget based on reforms from the Alliance's reform agenda. The common political basis of the Alliance is not lacking. In any case, it should be sought to get alliance reforms in place now. As healthcare queues grow and inequalities in healthcare increase, both more resources and structural reforms are needed. These are reforms that can remedy acute queues, long-term skills needs and structural problems related to the organisation of care. Now that we see signs of a slowdown in economic activity, it is particularly important to implement structurally correct reforms in the labour market so that the exclusion that follows in the wake of the strong division of the labour market is not deepened. Reforms are also needed to meet the skills needs of industry and the public sector. When we see a dysfunctional housing market that hampers skills provision, integration, jobs and growth, wise and long-term rules of play must be put in place as soon as possible. It is not least urgent when we see a folding construction. When older people suffer from involuntary loneliness and isolation because they are not considered sick enough to have a retirement home, when those who are entitled to a place still do not get one and when four out of ten municipalities do not believe that they will manage to meet the need in either two or five years' time, structural grips and resources are needed for both shelters and special accommodations. When the school lacks, reforms are needed for knowledge such as previous grades, more knowledge and more teaching time. When climate emissions do not decrease at the required pace, we must act. When it can be crucial for the security in which residential area you live, more police officers are needed with better conditions as soon as possible. I would also like to highlight another challenge as to whether a new government needs to take seriously. It is about the fact that over 1 million Swedes claim to lack a close friend and that more and more funerals take place without a single person present. When children do not think that their parents or other adults have time for them and their concerns, but experience great loneliness, we need to recognise this as a social problem and not just an individual problem. We also need to see that it carries socio-economic costs and implements reforms to meet this. Many reforms in the reform agenda of the Christian Democrats and the Alliance will take time to implement. Some need extensive preparation. Much is, however, jointly prepared, and some can begin now. I believe that we should take this opportunity h is in Parliament to tackle these challenges. Mrs. Old President! Finally, I would like to say that I have been part of the Alliance for a long time. From Högfors 2004 to autumn 2014 it is probably reasonable to say that I basically lived and breathed alliance. Even in the years since then, my participation in and willingness to protect the Alliance has been great. Why? Well, I've seen what that reform force has meant to Sweden, how the Alliance has been at its best when it's been able to transform good values into practical reforms in close struggle with social problems. It is about work, transparency, ideality and community. It is about greater freedom of choice and economic freedom for individuals and families. It is a matter of understanding that companies are not enemies but the basis of our prosperity. It is a question of clear expressions of solidarity beyond cultural and national boundaries, and a fundamental view that society is infinitely larger than the state. There has also been a fundamental desire not to leave anyone in the lurch, not to leave anyone behind, but also not to hold anyone back. We have made concrete reforms to promote all of this. I have also seen the dynamics of cooperation and how all four parties – the Moderates, the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals – have contributed and are still contributing with reform proposals today. I have seen how the different entrances of the different parties have made the other parties' proposals better. The improvement has, of course, primarily concerned the proposals of the others, but in a few cases also the Christian Democrats. If this reform force and dynamism are lost and the Alliance ceases to be the force for reform in Swedish politics, other centres of politics will be strengthened, which in different ways and far from each other, stand for other things. There is reason to listen carefully to those who wish the Alliance to burst. Some say that these are new times now and that the Alliance cannot contribute to them. It's not my opinion or belief, not even after yesterday. On the contrary, despite its difficulties and the difficulties that exist in Parliament, the Alliance is the option that has the greatest potential to interact in a government or with a government programme that, on the basis of good values, implements reforms that Sweden now needs. The first reforms from the solid reform agenda on which the Alliance was elected can and should, in my opinion, be put forward already during this budgetary process to be examined by the House. I want to see a Sweden with freedom without egoism, with solidarity without socialism. The conditions for this are greatest with the policies of the Christian Democrats and the Alliance.
i-42ffa84fb1231c55-153	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. In my hometown of Lund a few weeks ago there was news that the medical company Baxter is closing down and moving it to Italy. In this House and in the debate we are all part of, it is sometimes painted that Sweden is a tractor that only grinds on. There is a boom that makes us feel that Sweden is invincible in every way. But when you take note of the news that 300 jobs disappear from Skåne and Lund, you realize that all the global companies that exist in our country, and that every day create wealth in our country, operate in a global market where competition is fierce. Every day, every week, every month and every year, decisions need to be made in these companies, where they constantly have to work to be better than their international competitors in order for the jobs to remain here in Sweden. Madam President, I would like We as politicians and Sweden AB should have the same starting point. Sweden is a country with a small and open economy on the outskirts of northern Europe, which does not compete with Portugal, Italy or Spain, but competes with China, the United States, Germany and the United Kingdom. Sweden must be better than these countries in order for companies to want to place production and business here. Sweden cannot be worse or have worse economic conditions than our competitor countries. On the contrary, there must be better conditions than in other countries. We must have something to attract in order for international companies to choose to operate in the small country on the outskirts of northern Europe. We have a strange language, a small economy and a cold climate. We must have other things to attract in order for companies to want to locate their production here. Now that we have seen in recent years that a number of international companies that have previously been Swedish are no longer Swedish companies, the warning bells are ringing clearly; when we stand still others are running by. When Sweden does not do enough, other countries do more. Then we lose prosperity, competitiveness and, above all, jobs, which makes our country poorer. Madam President, I would like Many people feel that politics does not deliver. A lot of people watching TV are thinking about the 10 million that that politician talks about is going to solve something one day and that 5 million who are going to solve something the other day. It doesn't matter. On the whole, basic functions in our society do not work. Every sixth young person leaves comprehensive school without being eligible for upper secondary school. People live on benefits year after year. People get stuck living on support, not for a month or two months, but permanently. People feel that the police are not delivering because the police density is the lowest since 2007. The healthcare queues are growing, and people feel that they do not come to health care, which politicians should certainly be able to solve. The result is that confidence in welfare, in the social contract and for us in politics gets a real thorn. We'll take it very seriously. Regardless of which government takes office, it must be the end of the perspective that with a few millions here or there you solve the social problems. It is not what people expect of us, but they expect substantial fundamental reforms that change and improve important functions in our society. Madam President, I would like A clear example is welfare. If we ask a teacher or nurse, their description of a working day is characterized by frustration and stress about not being allowed to spend your working time on what you are used to. Instead, you have to spend a lot of time on bureaucracy, administration and things that you are not trained for. Too little time is spent on students or patients and too much time is spent filling out documents or sitting in front of the computer. The main problem is that of politics, which for too long has not seen the conditions for those who work in the core of welfare and for too long have built up a structure that grinds apart instead of creating joy and momentum at work. It is about letting the professionals be professionals, and it is about settling with the jantelagsmentality that exists, and has existed, that no one is too fine to do certain tasks. However, the doctor at the health care center should not take dishes out of the dishwasher, and the nurse should not make beds or hand out trays with food. It should be done by other persons so that the trained person can use his or her time for what he or she is trained to do, namely to care for patients. The teacher should not go out in the hallway to look for students who are late for class. The teacher's not supposed to be a rest watchman. This can be done by other people so that the teacher has time to educate our students and develop the teaching. Professionals need to be pros. Madam President, I would like Liberals are fighting for a school of knowledge. We do so because we know what the opposite is, namely a society that is torn apart. When the school does not deliver, we see the emergence of a new underclass where your background determines your future. That, in turn, is the breeding ground for the crime we can see, and it creates a society that is torn apart. A society where it's more important where you come from than where you're going is a dangerous society. It is a society in which dreams disappear, and it is a society in which people do not believe that they themselves can influence their life situation. It's a dangerous society. Madam President, I would like Sweden is now 18th in the EU's unemployment statistics. The goal was for Sweden to be number one, but we are in 18th place. The figure itself is not interesting, but the serious thing is that people who want to work do not work. People cannot support themselves and do not stand on their own feet; they become dependent on being supported by society. When idleness spreads and risks inheriting for generations, where people do not have faith in the future, we create a two-tier society where some have and others do not. It's cutting a breeding ground for extremism – religious extremism and other forms of extremism. It is in this breeding ground that the criminal gangs act. In Gothenburg, Malmö, Kristianstad and Södertälje it is in idleness and dependency that the breeding ground is created for the criminal networks that are growing stronger. It is our job as politicians to break this. It is, of course, a question of police action, but above all it is a question of the existence of a labour market that gives everyone the chance. Those who have not finished school should also feel the urge to get up in the morning and a community – to be needed in society, be at a workplace and do a job. We have closed that door because politicians have said, from a socialist view of society, that there should not be easy jobs – that is bad. The previous government has said no to that. The price is a deeper dependency on grants. Madam President, I would like I'm a liberal, not a socialist. It means that justice for me is not that everyone has the same amount. Justice for me is that everyone has the same conditions in life. But people will then make different choices. Some will be trained, and some will start businesses. It's perfectly okay that not everyone earns as much, as long as everyone has the same chance from the start. Justice is not that everyone has the same, but justice is that everyone has the same chance in life. It is therefore strange that we live in a society where education is seen as something bad. Sweden is the country in the West that taxes education at the highest. Every third full-time Swedish worker in our country is regarded as a high wage earner and has a marginal tax rate of 50 per cent. No country has higher marginal taxes than those we have here in Sweden. The effect of this is that education does not pay off. That direction must be broken. Madam President, I would like Sweden is a country that in the coming years has major societal problems to address. At this point, people feel that politics does not deliver. Politics does not deal with important, large and basic social functions that do not work. Police, school and health care do not work and do not deliver at a level that citizens expect. Then the answer is no more of what we've had for the last four years. The answer is not the transitional budget that we are currently dealing with in our Parliament. The answer is liberal reforms where more people can stand on their own feet, where we invest in school, where we make sure to build welfare so that professionals can be professionals. This is how we build a better society, and it is with those reforms that the Liberals want to build Sweden stronger.
i-42ffa84fb1231c55-170	Madam President, I would like Sweden is in a new, so far untested situation, and it is important that we all take responsibility in the situation we are now in. That is why the transitional government has had talks with the bourgeois parties and the Left Party about the principles of the budget that we presented today. The result is what is now being put on the table of this House. It's not our wish budget. It is a document that ensures that the state's activities will be able to function until a new government is in place and is free to present its own economic policy. What we should be focusing on is getting a new government. As long as the Riksdag has not decided on such a decision, it is also not reasonable that the Riksdag should tie it up with an already established economic policy. Having said that, however, I intend to take this opportunity to present some of the economic policies that the Green Party wants a new government to conduct. Madam President, I would like The situation of the planet is very worrying. On a daily basis, we receive reports of conditions that do not improve but, on the contrary, deteriorate. We must now work even harder to build a better society – one where we do not burn up the planet or waste resources and where plastic continents do not grow in the oceans. A society where wealth is measured in time for itself and each other and not in consumption. A society built on solidarity, where we stand up for equality and justice. Simply a society where our grandchildren have the opportunity to grow up and live free lives on a healthy planet with a rich plant and animal life. But climate change is here and now. The ice melts, and the drought spreads. I have said that many times before in this House. Alarm reports are numerous, but for a long time the obvious problems were far away. This summer they came closer to us, with extreme drought and burning forests. The costs of climate change are now becoming apparent and tangible to an increasing number of people, and the need to switch to reduce emissions is increasing. Madam President, I would like In our grandchildren's future Sweden, no cars are driven on petrol or other fossil fuels. We have trains running on time and rolling fast on high-speed lines. The government launched several important reforms in order to reduce emissions from the transport sector last parliamentary term, but more needs to be done. In our grandchildren's future Sweden we eat climate-smart and organic food – food that is good for both humans and the plane. Of course, the public should take responsibility by buying only food produced under conditions that apply in Sweden but also by promoting climate-smart and ecological consumption with policy instruments. Madam President, I would like In our grandchildren's future Sweden, we don't have to worry about dying seabeds and sick coral reefs. For us to get there, the spread of plastics, toxins and harmful substances to our lakes and streams must be stopped and more marine protected areas created. We must also continue to strengthen the work on an offensive nature policy. The World Wildlife Fund recently announced a 60 - percent reduction in the number of vertebrates in the world in 40 years! Rapid policy action is now required. Madam President, I would like In our grandchildren's future Sweden, we take care of each other as much as we take care of our planet. We must fundamentally change the economic system and create a circular economy. There we share resources with each other and re-use. We live more and work less, and we make it more expensive to do things that are bad for the environment than what is good. While we must resolve the major issues of the future for the planet, we must also have a policy for here and now. Too many children do not feel well and suffer from mental illness. It must be prevented and treated quickly. We must ensure that all children and young people get an honest chance at school and have the right to grow and be challenged, succeed and develop their talents. We have made a lot of effort on the school during the past term of office, but more needs to be done. Sweden plays an important role in an open and peaceful world. At a time when far-right and undemocratic forces are emerging, it is more important than ever that we stand up for democracy, human rights and gender equality. For the Green Party, it is obvious that a humane refugee policy protects the right of asylum and gives families the right and the opportunity to reunite. When other countries have denied the climate threat, Sweden has shown leadership. We want Sweden to be a forerunner and pressurer in global environmental work, and that task is more important than ever.
