i-02a6739951f9341d-10	Madam President, I would like Mattias Bäckström Johansson has asked me two questions in the light of Swedish power network's annual power balance reports, and he points to decreasing margins in the power balance in winter. The first question is whether I am concerned about the developments we are now seeing. The second question is whether I intend to take any steps to ensure continued good security of supply. These are important issues raised in the interpellation. A robust electricity supply is a fundamental prerequisite for a modern and well-functioning society. This is becoming increasingly clear in a digitalized world where more and more areas are dependent on secure electricity supply. The first question is whether I am concerned about developments. My answer is no, because it is well known. Sweden today has stable conditions for the energy sector, thanks to the agreement reached by five parties in June 2016 on Sweden's long-term energy policy. This is something completely unique in our neighbourhood. The agreement contains a wide range of measures to ensure that Sweden will have a robust electricity system with high security of supply, low environmental impact and electricity at competitive prices. The power issue, as Mattias Bäckström Johansson knows, was an important part of the discussions that took place during the Energy Commission's work and that led to the energy agreement. The agreement underlines that the focus should not only be on the amount of energy delivered but also on the existence of sufficient impact. The second question is whether I intend to take any action. The answer is that the whole shift in energy policy aims to ensure both energy and impact needs in the short as well as long term. The government has from day one delivered a variety of efforts to ensure continued good delivery security. It was one of the starting points when the Energy Commission was set up and then led to the political agreement. For example, the Government has proposed and the Riksdag has decided to reduce taxes on electricity generation from water and nuclear power. We have extended and extended the electricity certification system, we have been commissioned to develop sector strategies in energy efficiency and we have extended the power reserve. Strengthening the transmission capacity of the national and international core network is ongoing. Hydropower will also have new legislation to ensure a continued high level of production. And the management of the Nuclear Waste Fund has been reformed. Finally, I note that there are still challenges in our electricity system. However, I can also say that we are in a very good position to cope with them.
i-02a6739951f9341d-17	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the answer to my interpellation! There is, of course, much that is good in the energy agreement that has been concluded and which is based on the work of the Energy Commission. In particular, it is perhaps the short-term measures that have the strongest impact on the power system in the immediate vicinity, such as the removal of the power tax and the reduction of the property charge for hydroelectric power. It's been greatly elevated. If it wants to do well, as it now stands and as the parties that have concluded the energy agreement have communicated, it is also a step away from the ut red ning agenda that has been for small hydropower. In such cases, it is welcome and something that the Swedish Democrats have also contributed to, when we have sent an announcement about it to the government. Developments should not be underestimated, given the margins that have existed in the Swedish power system and developments over the last ten years. If we look just ten years back, we can see that at that time we had a margin of almost 5,000 megawatts in our power system. That margin has been reduced by more than 80% over this ten-year period. In front of us we also have the lockdown of Ringhals 2 and then Ringhals 1. That means almost 1,700 megawatts more. And then the whole margin is gone in the Swedish power system. Then there are no margins anymore. At the same time, the maximum power requirement required for winter has been reduced by 1 300 megawatts over the same period. There has also been an increase in the availability of wind power. There are several positive factors that will not come back in the same way. For example, heat pumps have made a significant contribution to reducing the need for direct electricity in the area of domestic heating. It has also reduced the power requirement. However, these low - hanging fruits are not possible once more. And if we look at the Swedish grid's development plan, we can see that they really flag because in our southern electricity areas, SE3 and SE4, it waits nearly 400 hours with power shortages. It is not just one, two or three days; it can be an average of up to half a month each year. None of the longer-term measures remain. They will steer towards solving this or ensuring that power is available at the peak of demand. There is no relationship at all between what is supplied and demand. Some measures may help to some extent to resolve those pieces. But many of the measures, for example for batteries, are more about eliminating the difference between day and night and do not address the long-term challenge in the Swedish power system. At the outset, I would like to ask the Government whether he sees no need whatsoever for the long-term measures, mainly through the electricity certification system, to steer towards a link between being able to deliver power when there is also a need for it and demand for it. At present, this link is completely missing.
i-02a6739951f9341d-24	Madam President, I would like Thank you, honourable Member, for further questions. Let's start with the facts. Sometimes it can become a false picture if you claim that things are worse than they were before. The truth is that by 2010 it was more common that Sweden was a net importer of electricity than an electric exporter. This was the case until the winter of 2010– 2011. Indeed, the fact that we export large quantities of electricity year after year is relatively new. This is due to a series of efforts made by both previous governments and this government. The second question was: What is the situation? Yes, Madam President, on 9 February this year we had a really cold winter day, one of the coldest days throughout this winter. At that time, the electricity demand in Sweden was up to levels that were about double the usual levels in summer, namely 26 500 megawatts in power. What was it like? Did we do this? Yes, we did not only manage it, Madam President, but we did it without having to resort to the reserves that we have when it is really cold. We did this adequately. Do we have challenges ahead of us? Yes, we and other countries very much do. However, I believe that, thanks to the cross-block agreement on energy policy, our ability to cope with these conditions has improved considerably. Not only does it provide short-term stability, it also provides long-term conditions to cope with both power and power. And we do it in a way that is competitive, stable and sustainable. You're supposed to bring that with you. I do not really share the honourable Member's view that many of the efforts we have proposed to Parliament and supported by Parliament are short-term. Just take what the five-party group proposed on Friday about hydropower. It is very much long-term measures that will have an effect on Swedish hydropower and the Swedish energy system within the next 40 to 50 years. I'd like to call that long-term. I would also like to remind the honourable Member that there are two parts of the energy system that can affect this with effect. An important part is the availability of electricity and electricity supply facilities. The second part is, of course, energy efficiency. We are at the beginning of a time where automation, digitalisation and electrification in themselves will make the possibilities to streamline our way of using energy and electricity will be significantly greater in the future than they have been. I do not share the view that everything that can be done in this area is done, on the contrary. I think we're just at the beginning of a revolution in this area. This is evident not least in the housing sector. Only electrification of the transport fleet has an inherent energy efficiency of half. It does increase the demand for electricity, but it can be fixed. Let me give a further example so that we understand the greatness of this. Only by switching all lighting to LED can we cope with half the electricity needed for road transport. That much can also be done in terms of energy efficiency. Madam President, I would like Yes, we have challenges ahead of us. But I believe that we have a particularly good chance of coping with these. That is exactly what the five party group – the Social Democrats, the Environmental Party, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Center Party – have contributed to. Then I would like to ask the honourable Member a question myself. If the Swedish Democrats do not think this is a good thing, what do the Swedish Democrats want to do in concrete terms?
i-02a6739951f9341d-35	Madam President, I would like Above all, it is a problem that there is no control of the subsidies available, for example that there should be planned production or to ensure that production is linked to where demand exists. That connection is completely missing. Although it is said to be able to distinguish between energy and effect, it is recurrent in the policy announced that the new knowledge is completely lacking. It is based only on how much energy is to be injected, not on the need for power or on how it looks. What I mean by short-term action in the field of hydropower has already been taken away from the previous investigation agenda. After all, it is not the case that the conditions are strengthened to make it even easier for the long-term to cope with the security of supply. This effect already exists today. At the first stage, it is a matter of ensuring that this effect is not lost. It is about 700 – 800 megawatts that small hydropower contributes with winter time. It's a very important part of the power balance. The Government highlights this with energy efficiency. In particular for households or industry, it is often landed in the fact that more electricity will be used and that the need for electricity will increase. This increases the importance of this issue further in ensuring that it is particularly during the winter that we must be able to cope with the impact situation. The historical context must also be seen. Within a few years, we will slip down to negative values for normal winters. It would be interesting to know if the Government knows when we last had negative values for normal winters, when Sweden last had electricity shortage in the near future, when one last had such a poor margin for the Swedish security of supply. You shouldn't play this off like it's normal, that it usually looks like this, that there's no danger in any way. When was the last time Sweden had a shortage of electricity? When was the last time we had a negative value for normal winter?
i-02a6739951f9341d-40	Madam President, I would like Anyone who listened carefully to the press conference we had last Friday when we presented the five-party agreement on hydropower could hear that the issue of power was at the centre. It is indeed the case that we will be able to cope with the amount of electricity. That is what has been the big challenge. That is why it took so much time for the Energy Commission, where not least Mattias Bäckström Johansson participated. Many of the measures we have proposed are precisely about this. It's not just about being able to secure the amount of electricity – yes, even aiming to be net exporters of electricity in the future – but also about being able to do so at any given moment. The conditions change radically, that's what it is. The question was when we last needed to import. Yes, we were in 2010-2011. It was a cold winter when we imported electricity. Now we have all the conditions in the world to continue, not only to supply our own country with electricity and power, but also to contribute to the stable functioning of the Nordic system. That's the way it is. Nor did I receive an answer to my question. In all honesty, Mattias Bäckström Johansson, it can't be about the certification system. It is important and successful and it has become an increasingly important part of the electricity system, but it is still a fairly small part of the electricity supplied. After all, the majority still come from hydroelectric power and nuclear power, even if it is a declining proportion. So my question remains: if this is the only answer that the Swedish Democrats have, then I am really worried. Madam President, I would like I do not think we should underestimate the very rapid technological development that is taking place in the energy sector today. I would say that our energy is revolutionary. Central systems are being decentralised now. This applies to everything from solar cells to wind power combined with smart grids and storage, which are now increasingly emerging, although at the moment it is not economically viable with the exception of hydropower. Over the season, it is not impossible to see in front of it that even that will come out. It is important for us that Sweden is at the forefront to show that we can manage to supply both households and industry with the energy we need without destroying the environment and climate. Here Sweden has a very important role to play. If, through these solutions, we can increase growth and the number of green jobs in our country by exporting these solutions, then we will create a win-win situation. And you know, with the broad consensus that we have on energy policy in this Parliament where the five parties that have concluded the agreement take on a historic responsibility, not only for the short-term but also for the long-term challenges and problems, Sweden has created a very good opportunity to contribute to both solutions to the problems that exist and completely new opportunities with the export of green technologies and solutions. It's not bad.
i-02a6739951f9341d-47	Madam President, I would like I realise that it is difficult to distinguish between power balance reports, power requirements, how it looks and what they are aimed at. For a normal winter, Sweden has had a positive margin in the power balance reports throughout the 2000s. The Government can look up and look further for when you can find the first year when we did not have a positive value for a normal winter. The answer given is highly incorrect. You have to go back to the '70s to find those years. We will now enter a whole new period, which we have not seen before for a very long time. The Swedish Democrats are deeply concerned about how this will affect households and, above all, industry. Throughout the period from the 1970s until today, we have been able to secure good electricity supplies in winter at competitive prices, which has been a competitive advantage for the Swedish industry so that it has been able to assert itself in a global market. Now we risk releasing one of these advantages. We are making this no longer a competitive advantage for the industry in Sweden. The Swedish Democrats are deeply concerned about this development. There is still no control against security of supply or that power should be delivered when the need is greatest. That is the governance that we lack in the energy policy we have been pursuing. There is nothing pervaded by the fact that you have taken on board the new insights that there is a difference between energy and effect. Finally, I would like to thank the Government for the debate. I would also like to ask whether the Government and the Government are completely alien to having a goal of security of supply, which should be an instrument of policy to steer towards so that we can ensure and maintain the good security of supply that our power system has been characterised by.
i-02a6739951f9341d-52	Madam President, I would like On the contrary, the Energy Commission and the energy settlement that was met in Parliament by five parties focused very much on both the amount of electricity and the effect, i.e. that there is always power in the system. Actually, I'm a little surprised. My picture of Mattias Bäckström Johansson is that he is knowledgeable in the field. But when he says that you should only focus on what capacity is available and not on the amount of electricity delivered, it becomes very weird. Everyone can check that we were net importers of electricity in 2010– 2011. It was, of course, because we had a lot of capacity that we did not deliver. Of course, no one was pleased that we had a capacity that we did not deliver. It is highly appropriate for both households and electricity consumers as well as industry that there is not only capacity but that it is also delivered. In this case, we are talking about nuclear power plants that were currently down because of various renovations and other things. So nobody was happy about that. In fact, I do not understand the criticism that I am just focusing on the fact that we were electricity importers in 2010, because we were. We see many of the issues raised, and they have been known for a long time. Now, however, we have a common political roadmap for this, for which five parties here in Parliament take responsibility. Better than that, I don't think it's possible to do this. The truth is that Mattias Bäckström Johansson is very well aware that the whole discussion on security of supply is sometimes code words to discuss whether the state should take responsibility for building new nuclear power plants or not. In the deal we have signed, private operators can invest in new nuclear power plants, but they can do so for their own money. The countries that use taxpayers' money have experienced that it is extremely expensive. If this is what the Swedish Democrats want to do, I say: Thank you, but no, thank you!
i-02a6739951f9341d-57	Madam President, I would like Lotta Finstorp has asked me whether I or the government will compensate Sweden's riding schools financially for the increased cost if the proposal to ban siltor becomes a reality. Lotta Finstorp has also asked me what the total economic calculation looks like for Sweden's municipalities and whether I intend to make it easier for the municipalities because the municipalities may be drawn with large outlays if the law comes into force. I fully agree with Lotta Finstorp that the riding schools play a very important role in society. Among other things, they contribute with basic horse and riding training. They are an important place for meetings between individuals and for recreation. They enable the exercise of sports and wellness and contribute to a meaningful leisure time for many horse enthusiasts in our country. Lotta Finstorp does not mention what proposal she refers to in the interpellation, but I assume that she means the proposal for fixation in the Council of Law referral on a new Animal Welfare Act that was decided in January this year. That proposal does not at all regulate how animals may be stabled and does not, therefore, concern whether or not animals should be kept loose. The fixation provision is intended to regulate when it is permitted to fix animals or by other similar means to prevent animals from moving. On the other hand, the government is arguing about loose animals in the legislative referral. I'll get back to you in a minute. First of all, however, I would like to mention that most horses are already being kept in loose systems. Some horses are kept in loose systems, but boxes are the most common form of loose systems for horses. In addition, there is already a requirement today for those who build new stables for horses to build so that the horses are kept loose. The same applies to those who rebuild or to their stables in such a way that testing of the stables is to take place. The environment of horses is important for their welfare. Bound systems impose considerable restrictions on the ability of animals to move. Spiltor, for example, affects how the horses lie down and stand up. They also limit the ability of the horses to view their surroundings. The opportunity to get a grip on the surroundings is a basic and important need for horses. The government believes that keeping animals loose, especially as regards the ability of animals to move and to carry out their natural behaviour, has great advantages. The government therefore has the ambition that all animals should be kept loose. At the same time, a direct and immediate ban on keeping animals in tied-up husbandry systems would hit very hard on the activities of equestrian schools and dairy farmers, for example. For example, too rapid phasing out of siltor may force riding schools to cut back on or close down their activities. This would also, as Lotta Finstorp points out, affect the municipalities' expenditure on riding school activities. Against this background, the government plans to analyse the consequences of a requirement for all animals to be kept loose. This review is also intended to include the question of whether there are incentives other than provisions that can promote a rapid and effective transition to loose systems.
i-02a6739951f9341d-66	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is interesting to hear that we have a common understanding of the importance of riding and the horse as a health promoter. Riding schools and association with horses are a meeting place and a bridge builder between people. This is also health promotion. It is also important and good that the health care allowance also applies to horseback riding. Animals make people healthier. There are several research studies that show this. Let me give you something that Winston Churchill has said: There is something about the outside of the horse that is good for the inside of man. I think this is very nice and really in the middle of it. There's a need for more horse sports, not less. That is why I have written this interpellation, which is an expression of the concern that parts of Ridskolesverige feel today about a possible decision to ban spiltor. Of course, you want to see all horses standing in boxes and drifting on the basis of their own conditions. But you can't just let horses loose. For example, there must be many different pastures, for horses have different needs for different amounts of food. It also distinguishes how horses feel together in flocks. It is therefore a little too easy sometimes just to say that all horses should go loose, because it also requires large land areas. Such questions have caused me to write this interpellation. Let me start with some facts about the equestrian sport. Riding is the most equal sport in the world. Men and women compete the Olympics on equal terms, and it is actually the only sport where you do it. Learning to ride at riding school is the start of many race riders. Today, half a million people ride, drive horses, do volts and so on. Sweden's second largest youth sport after football is the equestrian sport. It is also that sport with the greatest proportion of women. Ninety per cent of those who ride are women, and the Swedish Riding Association is the association that has the most women as practitioners. Swedish riding school is unique in the world and a nursery. There are 5 million riding hours every year at the country's riding schools. The figure is from 2011, and it has increased. It is mainly women of my age who want to resume their riding who have difficulty in getting a place at riding school because it is such a queue. Sweden has 125 000 exercise and lesson riders and 4 000 riders with disabilities. Today, 462 riding schools are affiliated to the Swedish Riding Association. At these riding schools, about 10,000 pony and horses work. They are co-workers, and the most important thing for the riding school is to have good quality of their horses and ponies. A riding school has an average of 200 students per week. Riding is also one of the largest sports for disabled people, and about half of all riding schools can offer such activities. In the emails I receive, there is a concern about safety if the horses are only allowed to drift loose or stand in a box: How can the disabled continue to be in the stable and smoke and so on? We need arrows here even after the ban, because we have to be able to tie up the horses when we take care of them. As I said, the Swedish riding school is unique, and we need more riding schools, not fewer. There is a concern about the cost if it is so that you have to convert all the darts into boxes.
i-02a6739951f9341d-77	Madam President, I would like I think that this issue is so important, so that is why I am going into it. I fully agree with Lotta Finstorp in her comments and statements on the size of the equestrian sport. I am pleased that we have finally received a health care allowance. It was not precisely the Minister of Finance who drew on this issue, but the courts. I have had several debates with the Minister for Finance on this. The Minister writes in his reply that the proposal does not regulate how animals may be stabled. But when I read in the draft law, it says about binding and fixation of animals in Section 5. It is very fuzzy, because it says that animals may be fixed or in other similar ways have their freedom of movement limited. Well, a spilta restricts freedom of movement. However, there is no mention of how many hours a day the horses go into pasture or how large the pasture is. Today, even clean drift systems are tested where the horses walk around and can eat as much as they want and so on. It states that binding and fixation shall be prohibited if it cannot be justified on grounds of veterinary, safety or similar legitimate grounds. Laws should be clear and easy to follow. It also says that some authority will eventually draw up regulations for this. However, there are great ambiguities here, which means that I too, who have been involved in horses for many years, have a lot of concern. Equestrian horses are usually taken in, get their food, stand in the stall for a while and then walk four five hours a day. That it's wrong to let a horse stand in a dart for 23 hours, I agree. The legislative proposal is therefore unclear. Everything depends on what the animal's environment is around the other hours of the day. As Lotta Finstorp says, horseback riding works as rehabilitation for disabled people incredibly well. I know that, because I myself am the chairman of a Finsam League. Then it's a safety thing that the horse stands in spilta so that these people can enjoy spending time with the horse both before and after the ride. The Minister also says that the government will analyse the consequences for the riding schools so that this will not cause too much concern. It was a good opening. But should we analyse the consequences after the law comes into force or before? I suppose the bill will be presented on 20 March, unless I am completely wrong. When will the consequences be analysed? Should we have some kind of transparency about how the animal has it, by the way, sizes of pastures, hours out and so on? I hope that the ambiguities in the text will be removed once there is a proposal.
i-02a6739951f9341d-88	Madam President, I would like I thank Lotta Finstorp for reminding us of the fine quote from Winston Churchill. I also thank you for the opportunity to discuss the conditions for riding schools. I myself have been involved in the horse trade for a long time, so I have some knowledge of it. Let me clarify what Gunilla Nordgren has to say. The bill that exists has nothing to do with the installation. There is a law that says that you can have a horse in spilta max 16 hours, and then it must also get loose. What this text is about is when you get fixated. For example, the animal must be fixed in court, as must a veterinarian's examination of an animal. As I mentioned earlier, the government wants to work to promote keeping animals loose instead of tied up. That is the long-term thought that lies in this. The study underlying the legislative referral on animal welfare proposed a clear requirement for animals to be kept loose. We realise, however, that a ban on spilta, for example, can have consequences for riding schools and other companies that have their horses in stilts today. We must not forget that the horse-sporting industry and its jobs play a major role in rural development. It is therefore important to hurry slowly and not be hasty. We realise that if this were to happen immediately, many riding schools and other companies would be severely affected. The people involved in these activities would also be affected. That is why the government has announced that we intend to investigate the consequences of a ban on interconnected systems. The proposal of the animal welfare investigation contained a certain analysis of the consequences, but it was certainly not sufficient. That is why we need to look much more closely at how to deal with this issue in the long term. Among other things, we need to consider carefully how long the transitional period may be needed if a ban on arrows and other systems where animals are tied up is introduced. The analysis shall also include whether there is other than legislation that can promote a rapid and effective transition to loose systems. We have to take one step at a time, and the first step is to carefully analyse the consequences. Then we will have to consider how best to stimulate the transition to loose systems.
i-02a6739951f9341d-96	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for the clarification, because what buzzes out among riding school peoples and riders is that there is an ambiguity in what actually applies and what the process looks like. It causes concern, because it has a signal value in terms of what is actually going to happen. What I think is important, if there is some sort of suggestion that you do not get to have horses in siltor after the analysis has been carried out, is that it has to go gradually so that there is time to change. I think it is about 70% of the riding schools owned by the municipalities. This means that the investment in the construction of the municipalities' plans, long-term plans, planning processes and so on. It therefore takes quite a number of years for this to happen, and it is also important that any proposal should open up to the municipalities so that they can get it into their investment plans. I have a question to answer in my next speech: Should the impact assessment now be completed by 20 March? This is not just about a big cost for rebuilding existing riding facilities and getting in boxes or having loose drives, for example. You want to have the riding schools close to town so that as many people as possible can ride. There should be local traffic nearby, or in other ways you should be able to travel collectively to get to your riding lesson. This means that many riding schools today are quite retarded in terms of land use. Much is being built in Sweden, which brings the houses closer to the riding schools. If you are to have horses on loose gear, much more land is needed, and then much longer time is needed for such a process. It also looks very different. Many new riding facilities where I usually judge dressage are located in Norrland and have cost 50 – 70 million to build. They are built entirely according to a possible new legislation and also available to those who are disabled in a very good way, and there are fresh showers and so on. But there are also a large number of riding schools in Sweden with both disadvantaged functions and disadvantaged buildings, as municipalities have prioritised care, school and care instead. Of course, when you stand here, it is desirable to try to get the health care part in, too, and in this way perhaps also get more students to like their school. There was a really interesting research report the other day that I read about in Aftonbladet. It was the Tokyo University of Agriculture that has concluded that horseback riding is very good for the students' cognitive function. When riding, the horse moves through the pelvis so that the brain is stimulated, and it becomes easier to learn mathematics, among other things. If you can look at it in the long term, perhaps also political representatives in the municipalities can dare to say that we are now investing in our riding facility, because it can also produce better results in school. It is not easy, however, because it is a matter of prioritising, and riding school managers naturally ask themselves how they should be able to stand at the riding school and say that they must have a new or revamped facility for many, many millions when there are great needs in healthcare, school and care.
i-02a6739951f9341d-103	Madam President, I would like The Minister says that this is not included, and then one can say that the text is unclear. Paragraph 5 of this proposal states that an animal may be fixed or otherwise have its freedom of movement restricted only if it is temporarily carried out, for example when it is shoesed. But that's not what we're talking about, because horses can go out in pastures and so on and so on and so are taken in and stand for a couple of hours. That difference is not mentioned in the text I have drawn up on the legislative referral, so to speak, and it is even more important that it should be a clear text. Is the outside environment taken into account, that is, how does it last for the rest of the hours? Lotta Finstorp was convinced that there are great needs when it comes to equipping stables but also riding houses. This is a major cost for the future, and the finances of the municipalities will not improve over the next four or five years. We all agree on that. It is also good that we agree that it is an important industry. Now I do not have any more speeches, but should I interpret this as a guarantee that there will be no ban in the proposal for the Animal Welfare Act that exists? Will you, like Lotta Finstorp asked for, analyse before or after you put the bill, or will there be long transition times? It is very important for all these riding schools in the municipalities to get a clear message about this. I also think that the text of § 5 of the proposal on animal welfare law should be clarified.
i-02a6739951f9341d-108	Madam President, I would like I have to repeat myself, Gunilla Nordgren: the proposal is not about installation. It's about temporary fixation of a horse. As I mentioned, there may be occasions when you shoes a horse or when a veterinarian examines it. You usually have to fix a horse when saddled on it, and you definitely have to fix a horse when you tighten it for carriages, for example. That's what it's all about. We have not yet given this assignment to the Swedish Board of Agriculture, but we are planning for this mission. We should not hurry too quickly, but we should analyse it very carefully. The ambition is loose, but it will of course require transitional rules. We are not going to mess up the horse sport and riding schools, which is a very important resource. It's a huge sport, next to football the biggest youth sport there is, and it attracts a lot of girls. I know so well how important this sport is to our kids and not least to our young girls. The state also contributes 6 million to special efforts in children's and young people's activities in the horse sector. A good example is the spring break. Many stables then open their doors, and children and young people who may not have done so before may try to ride, drive a horse or just hang out with the horses in the stable. These are really important activities for children that the sport works with. This is, of course, made possible by the agreement that exists with Svensk Travsport, Svensk Galopp and ATG, i.e. AB Trav and Gallopp. The agreement also provides funds to the National Foundation of Horse Industry, and through the agreement with ATG and funds to the National Foundation of Horse Industry, the state also contributes to the provision of skills in the sector. For example, we contribute with hippologists to the activities of the country's riding schools. The hipologists are trained at SLU in collaboration with the Swedish Horse Industry Foundation, and within the Rural Programme there are measures to promote the service and leisure facilities of the horse owners. Horse entrepreneurs, like other rural businesses, can also apply for investment aid to contribute to new jobs in rural areas – very important elements for the development of these enterprises. Up to now, 18% of the funds granted have actually gone to horse entrepreneurship. There is also support for the creation or maintenance of facilities for sports or leisure activities in rural areas. This includes, of course, riding schools. More than 10 percent of the funds have so far gone to rebuild stables, riding houses and terrain tracks. The horse sport is important. Let's not forget it. It is important for jobs in rural businesses that are often run by women – and they are needed in Swedish rural areas.
i-02a6739951f9341d-116	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. I clearly feel that we have a great consensus that it is very important that the horseback riding is maintained and that we should not make it more difficult for horse entrepreneurs in rural areas. Gunilla Nordgren asked a question about the lack of clarity, and I do not quite understand either. I think it would be very good if what is stated in § 5 is even clearer: An animal may be bound only if it is done in a way that is not painful for the animal and provided that, and so on. So it's about when you're going to shoe a horse or when a veterinarian comes. But there is really nothing here about this. You have to have reason to tie up the horse, it says in the paragraph. I would like the Minister to clarify this further. I also wonder about the impact assessment that is currently being carried out. Should it be ready by March 20 when the bill arrives? I'll take that as a starting point. As I said, there are some questions that need to be straightened out, and the question would be better clarified completely. Perhaps that would allow many riding - school managers and riders to push out a little. You can discuss what is a reasonable time if it is to be set from arrows to boxes. It is important to take height because it takes time and that this must enter the municipal processes in a logical way. There is a risk if the costs run out and you have too little time to reset. It may then be easier to delete a line on riding school activities and close it, and that certainly cannot be allowed to happen.
i-02a6739951f9341d-121	Madam President, I would like I would like to clarify what I said a moment ago in my last speech: we have not started the impact assessment, but we are currently planning to post such a task to the Swedish Agriculture Agency to carry out this in-depth and thorough impact assessment before moving on. Then we will see what it will say. Animal welfare is an important and priority for the government, and animal welfare is an important part of animal welfare. Horses benefit from being kept in loose systems in the long term. But we must hurry slowly when we take these steps so that we do not knock out an important industry. I think the debate shows that those of us who have taken part are protecting the industry and these important rural companies who work with horse sport. I also appreciate the work that has been going on in the long-established cooperation group in the field of horses, where the Government Office and the Ministry of Industry are involved. Finally, Madam President, I and the Members who have discussed this today all defend the sport of horses and will do everything possible to ensure that it develops not only in Swedish countryside but also in cities in many places. Thank you for a good debate!
i-02a6739951f9341d-124	Madam President, I would like Emil Källström has asked me whether I believe that Anders Åberg's Manna memory should be preserved for posterity and whether the state has a responsibility to do so. Manna memory is often highlighted as a unique all-art work where buildings and objects create an environment that is also an important cultural meeting place. Anders Åberg was a significant artist, and I regret his demise. As Minister of Culture, however, I should not have views on individual works of art. The question of the future of manna memory should be dealt with primarily in the context of regional cultural policy. The State is responsible for a significant part of regional cultural policy funding through the funding of the cultural cooperation model. In several steps, the government has strengthened support for regional culture by increasing funding. Regional autonomy is crucial to safeguard. Secondly, it is a matter for other operators who allocate grants for similar purposes. The Government's ambition is more culture to more people. The cultural budget has been strengthened by SEK 1 1⁄2 billion during the term of office. Never before has a government invested so much in promoting and developing cultural expressions throughout our country.
i-02a6739951f9341d-128	Madam President, I would like To anyone who hasn't been on or seen Manna memory is the only thing you can say: Go for it! It's well worth a visit. In the interpellation answer it is described as a work of art, but that is not the whole truth. Mannaminne is a fantastic collection of works of art, as well as venues for other cultural expressions. It ranges from inns and hotels to a variety of museums, exhibition and concert facilities and much more. What concerns me a little in the answer is that the Minister for Culture expresses such a passive view of the cultural expressions that exist around the country. The reason for the issue being raised is, as the Minister for Culture said, that Anders Åberg, who is the creator of Mannaminne and has been the primus engine in its development for decades, tragically and far too early now has passed away. When such a person disappears from us, it is natural to ask himself the question: How should we preserve what he has created for posterity? There are many who are involved in the survival of Mannamin. But the fact is that Mannaminne is located in a small municipality with limited financial resources, and this in a small region with a small cultural budget. Västernorrland, which I represent, is in many ways in the ironing class when it comes to the distribution of the state's cultural funds. It is therefore natural to see whether there is a national interest in this. The questions I ask in the interpellation are: Does the Minister for Culture Anders Åberg's Manna memory consider it worth preserving? And does the Minister of Culture think that there is a state responsibility in this? These questions are not really answered in the clear. If one is to try to interpret the Minister for Culture between the lines, it seems that the government and the Ministry of Culture consider the answer to be no and that this is a matter for the Regional Council of Härnösand and not a question for the government and parliament. I cannot really interpret it in any other way than that the disproportionate centralisation that we have in cultural policy – and has had for a very long time – unfortunately continues. This is something that I think we should take very seriously. This is not just a question, but it is sometimes the case that if something happens around the country, for example in Western Norway, it is a regional issue. But when about the same thing happens in Stockholm, it becomes at once a national interest. It is possible to draw a clear parallel to when one of my parliamentary colleagues asked the Prime Minister about Sollefteå Hospital about whether the accident and the violations of election promises that occur there is a matter for parliament and government. No, says the Prime Minister, even though he was born in the same municipality. This is a regional question, he says. A few weeks later, the government is calling a press conference on another regional issue, New Karolinska in Solna. The same is true of this. If Mannaminne had been a little closer to Mälardalen, I am convinced that the Minister for Culture's answer would not have been this passive. I am absolutely convinced that this had been a national matter for a long time. This would be a great opportunity to show that the state's cultural policy applies to the whole country and is not the Stockholm issue as it has been for far too long. I regret, however, that it seems, unfortunately, that the centralisation that we have seen for a long time is continuing. At least that's what permeates the Minister of Culture's response.
i-02a6739951f9341d-138	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying to hear that there is a cultural political commitment of the Centre Party's economic-political spokesperson Emil Källström. At the same time, it is remarkable given that if there is any party in this House in the Swedish Parliament that completely cuts away all cultural policy and all investments in culture throughout our country is the Center Party. The Center Party is different from the crowd. The Center Party has virtually no cultural policy for the whole country to talk about. It is for everyone to be included in the draft budgets, and it is possible to compare the draft budget of the Center Party with all the other alliance parties, but especially with the policy of the government. The Center Party has no policy for the whole country. However, the government does. We make huge efforts – huge, historic. We have invested in and increased the cultural budget by 1.5 billion you. This has never happened before in Sweden's history. In addition, never before has a larger share of the government's total expenditure been spent on culture. It is remarkable that Emil Källst is tender as an economic-political spokesperson fibbing with the figures. Källström labors with them and tries to claim that Västernorrland would be distributed in the distribution of money to regional culture. That's not true. In fact, however one counts, Västernorrland receives a share of funding that is quite reasonable and often above the national average. The national average is SEK 507 per inhabitant. In Västernorrland it is SEK 561 per inhabitant.
i-02a6739951f9341d-142	Madam President, I would like It is an event that looks like an idea that today, when we hear Alice Bah Kuhnke present her speech, it is actually the day of source criticism. I think we should bear this in mind when we now hear the defence of the Minister for Culture, so to speak, for why we do not invest. If more resources on the whole were to be the only blessing in this debate, it would reasonably have been the Minister for Culture who would have wanted to invest in culture around the country and not me. Now, in fact, it is the Minister for Culture, who is bragging about his total cultural budget, who says no to taking this responsibility. I'm being accused of number-sparking. What I did was to take the sum that comes to Västernorrland regionally and compare it with the total expenditure area. I note that I believe that a greater proportion of the resources that we spend in the state budget on culture, regardless of the total number, should go to regional efforts. The interesting thing is not just what is on the last line but how to actually allocate these different resources. What happened during the term of office? Small cinemas around the country have received high VAT at the same time as the state museums that the Stockholm municipalities are completely flooded with – this is where the vast majority of state museums are located – by a majority of the Swedish Parliament, the Minister for Culture has carried out a reform that involves free admission. I note that a fraction of the money that Alice Bah Kuhnke considers reasonable to spend on free admission to state museums in Stockholm could have solved the question of the future of manna memory for all time. We all set different priorities. The Minister for Culture has done his, and we in the Center Party will continue to do ours. I would like to point out that the regional cooperation model referred to by the Minister for Culture saw the light of day under the alliance government and under the direct influence of the Center Party. I think it is a good thing that the Minister for Culture is sticking to it. I think it is good that the Minister for Culture mentions it in his speeches. But this is a commitment. This has to go on. The decentralisation of the state's cultural budget must continue. I think that those who listen to this debate and those parts of the board of Mannamnes Friends sitting here in the gallery are rather uninterested in the fact that there is shit thrown between the political blocs and by whose fault it really is. I would like to make a much more positive note of this debate. A healthy cultural policy must reasonably be in motion. Just because most government direct payments to facilities, museums, theatres and the like go to the metropolitan regions today does not mean that they continue to be so. Those who are now involved in this matter and those who contact me on behalf of Västernorrland wonder how to act. Does the Minister of Culture have any tips? If you want to bring up a facility like Mannamin in the heart of the High Coast in the national arena so that it can have a direct connection to national cultural policy – how can you do that, Alice Bah Kuhnke?
i-02a6739951f9341d-152	Madam President, I would like Since we now have the largest cultural budget ever in the history of our country and we have a government that wants to invest in more culture for more, we have of course also invested in the various authorities that distribute support across the country. The cultural cooperation model is, as Emil Källström says, a model for the distribution of funds that exists throughout the country and was put in place under the bourgeois government. We have continued to increase state aid to it, but it is only part of how we allocate all cultural policy resources. We have, among other things, increased the support to Boverket, where you can apply for funds to carry out cultural activities. We have also strengthened support for cultural conservation and put forward an entire cultural heritage policy that has received Parliament's support and which also provides additional resources for a wide range of platforms to develop initiatives. I would like to think that the cultural cooperation model is a good model in which we will continue to invest. There are simply more possibilities than ever. But one development that I do not want to see is that the Minister stands and points out individual works of art or activities around our country. I believe in the principle of subsidiarity. I believe that we should have municipalities that work together in regions and that then in the regions distributions are made. I think it's good. It should not stand and fall with the preferences of an individual minister when it comes to what you like or not. It's none of my business. My thing is to defend free art and create conditions for it. Among other things, I do this by ensuring that we have the greatest cultural budget ever. In addition to investments throughout the country through the cultural cooperation model and by increasing funding to other authorities that provide support for various activities, we also invest in the cultural school with SEK 100 million a year throughout the country. We invest in libraries with SEK 250 million a year. We have opened for free genealogy in all our archives. We have just presented a new media support that we will also increase funding to and secure for local journalism across the country. We have a strong policy for the whole country. I'm not at all interested in concentrating anything on our big cities. Here in the big cities there is often both great choice and opportunity to get to the culture. In rural areas, conditions are quite different. I, who come from the countryside in its right sense, know that you need to create the conditions to get to and from culture but also that there should be a supply. It should not depend on where you live or whether you have rich parents if you are to be able to take part in culture or practice culture. As I said, I would really like to emphasise this with funding. Since the interpellant writes so clearly in his question that Västernorrland is distributed, I would like to say that it is not distributed. Area 17 covers a great many more things than just cultural money. It also includes the money for sport and for peoples' education. The cultural part is a very special part, so you have to count a bit carefully there.
i-02a6739951f9341d-160	Madam President, I would like There was a certain expectation among all the enthusiasts who had engaged in and for Manna memory before the interpellation debate. Unfortunately, I have already had to note a degree of disappointment, and that is a disappointment I share. It is good that the Minister for Culture is clear. We have been told clearly that Västernorrland cannot expect more funds at all. I think the quote was verbatim: Västernorrland get enough. I don't share that picture. It must be a more reasonable regional distribution of state cultural resources. What came back in the Government's response and the Minister for Culture has now said is that Alice Bah Kuhnke feels that she cannot take a stand. However, I would like to say that every time a cultural budget is presented in Parliament, it continues to be a big city fixation in localization policy and government direct finance in institutionalization. Every time a budget is presented that does not change this is to take a stand, that is to say, to actively choose not to promote a more reasonable regional distribution. Even a non-opposition, as the Minister of Culture does, is actually to stand up because nothing changes. It's unwise. It would be more reasonable if we could establish in broad agreement that a stronger regional balance is needed here. It is not reasonable for state cultural resources to go to large cities that are already well off. It is right, for example, to protect and promote Manna memory.
i-02a6739951f9341d-164	Madam President, I would like We all do well not to put words in the mouth of others and certainly not to put words in the mouth of others that do not correspond with reality and also to say that we are quoting. Fortunately, it's all on tape...
i-f7dd903b747c08a1-0	That's good. ) ...so check the facts on this day of source criticism. I said on the basis of the statement that Emil Källström makes in the interpellation that Västernorrland would be banished that this is not the case. One is above average in the cultural part. I would like to stress absolutely that I am not satisfied with the position of culture in our country. I will continue to fight for, defend and create the conditions for free art. I am pleased that, thanks to this government, we now have the largest cultural budget in the history of our country. We have greatly increased it, but more needs to be done. But I am also keen that conservation and investment in culture are not made by politicians like Emil Källström and myself. Instead, professions – expertise – in the cultural sector should make that assessment. I'm a politician, not a reviewer or a cultural scientist. I have my degree in political science. Then I will stick to what we politicians are supposed to do, namely defend and create the conditions.
i-C48b3HHDRKe8swEcpgjN88	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaveh has asked me about the Authority for Support to Faith Communities' delegation of a mission on action against Islamophobia to the study association Ibn Rushd. Within the framework of the National Plan against Racism, similar forms of hostility and hate crime decided in November 2016, the Government has taken a number of actions that in various ways focus on combating different forms of racism. A starting point has been national and international reporting, research and data from both authorities and civil society, which show that racism and discrimination against Muslims are a major problem today. In 2015, the Equality Ombudsman published a report on research on Islamophobia and discrimination against Muslims. This shows that Islamophobia is a widespread form of racism, which takes the form, for example, of threats, violence, abuse, media attacks, less employment opportunities and harassment at school. Supposed Muslims get a lower response rate than those who are not supposed to be Muslims when they look for work. The Crime Prevention Council publishes statistics on police reports with identified hate crime motives that show that reports of Islamophobic hate crimes in recent years have been at a higher level than in the past. Representatives of Muslim organisations report that many Muslims experience racism, discrimination and hate more recently. Against this background, the Myndigh Eten for support to religious communities, SST, was tasked with conducting regional seminars on racism for civil society, in particular Muslim communities and organisations and other relevant actors, in order to increase the tendency to report crimes and to report discrimination against Muslims. State authorities, in this case SST, have an independent position vis-à-vis the government. The mission given by the government to SST does not say that the agency should collaborate with organisations to carry out the mission. The decision to enter into cooperation with the study association Ibn Rushd has thus been taken independently by the authority. The mission is still ongoing and will be reported to the Government by 30 March 2018. With regard to the neighbouring issue of the democracy criterion in state grants, I have been clear for years that public funds should not go to organisations that operate contrary to the ideas of democracy. That is also what applies in the regulations governing state subsidies. Authorities may recover grants if the purpose is not met. However, existing regulations are not enough, a clearer democracy criterion is needed and an improved application of the same. It is also requested by civil society, including organisations that bring together people of Muslim background or belief. The government has commissioned authorities to report back on how to test democratic values in their contribution. The government has also set up the inquiry into support for religious communities, which presented its proposal today. The study suggests how the democratic condition can be clarified with regard to the religious communities. This proposal is now to be referred to. In addition, there is an ongoing investigation to review grants granted by the General Heritage Fund, which makes its proposals after the summer. In addition to these investigations, the government has last week decided to set up an investigation that will broadly review how a clarified democracy condition can be introduced for state grants aimed at the whole of civil society.
i-7MjNTYxW5UqJy8McJmGAvH	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Culture Alice Bah Kuhnke, for the reply and for the presentation. In my interpellation, I am clear that it is important that the government actively works against hate crimes. However, precisely because Muslim hate crime is a serious social problem, the government must also ensure that it carries out its campaigns in the best possible way. The Government's directive mentions appropriate authorities, such as the Police Authority, the Discrimination Ombudsman, the Crime Prevention Council and the Living History Forum. Instead, the mission has been handed over to Ibn Rushd. As I wrote in my interpellation, this has also meant that the campaign against hate crimes has degenerated and instead become a challenge to us immigrant feminists who are fighting against honour-related violence and oppression. The campaign has also degenerated into an attack on Swedish Muslims who do not share Ibn Rushd's aggressive view of gender equality, Swedish democracy and society in general. I can give examples of what is highlighted on the campaign side by actors called experts. Masoud Kamali writes: a series of circumstances such as the demonisation of Muslims as terrorists and cultural inferiors through the ..................................................... Please note that Kamali puts honor on the murder debate, within quotation marks. It is a clear way of trying to deny that honour killings occur at all. Another actor is Kitimbwa Sabuni, who writes: alas, many Swedish Muslims have also embraced this tunnel vision of Islamophobia and believe that the fight against Islamophobia is about taking the majority society in hand and jointly condemning people who attack mosques. ..................................................... There are many different quotes from the expert groups, who are not seriously fighting Islamophobia, but rather the other way around. It will affect society even more and also poor ordinary Muslims, who will be subjected to hate crimes because of these statements. For me, this is nothing more than prejudice against and suspicion of Muslims and the majority society. The government gives assignments to an organisation that fights people in this way and uses the concept of Islamophobia to paint a conflict between Muslims and Swedish society where other Muslims are suspected, as I said. The next question will then be: Did Ibn Rushd know that this is how the experts would express themselves? Of course, because the experts have expressed themselves in this way in the past. As early as 2004, Masoud Kamali wrote in an anthology published by Expo on how the honorary debate was conducted by immigrants in Sweden who want to pursue a career and ideologically, advocate Stalinist methods. He also attacked Astrid Schlytter, who contributed to the report Gift against his will for what was then called the Youth Board and now called MUCF. This is all about suspecting and not doing any democratic work to combat hate crimes against Muslims.
i-5LAssNnAoPA4QQnepHvFwE	Madam President, I would like Mrs or Ms. Minister! Amineh Kakabaveh's interpellation that the Swedish Agency for Support to Faith Communities has delegated a mission to the study association Ibn Rushd regarding efforts against Islamophobia is important. We are certainly in agreement to combat racism and Islamophobia in all ways together. It is good that funds are allocated, that the government is acting and that authorities are initiating campaigns. There's one thing. Another thing is to discredit internationally, for example, Sweden's work against honour-related violence and oppression, to hire speakers who are severely inappropriate and to hire experts who reduce honorary violence, claiming that those who report this can do so in order to get their own apartments and attack honorable people for being a house servant. Ibn Rushd has done this. It has acted internationally and has engaged speakers and experts, as can be seen from the interpellation. Yet this federation of the Swedish Agency for Support to the Faith Society has been committed to carrying out seminars and more on combating racism in this campaign. The Government obviously considers the Authority's assessment to be perfectly sound. She does not distance herself from it and is therefore reasonably behind it. I find it remarkable. Unfortunately, the government with its two parties has a background in which it should react, and clearly so, when these issues arise – as in this interpellation. A minister of the Party of State, Mehmet Kaplan, has resigned because of close association with dubious organisations. The chairman of Ibn Rushd was elected to the second government party of the Party Executive of the Social Democrats but was allowed to leave it because he invited in his chair role in Ibn Rushd people with anti-Semitic and homophobic views as lecturers. Obviously, however, he still enjoys the confidence of the government as he has later gained the confidence of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs to be part of a delegation to Azerbaijan. Then the Government stands here and has no point of view that a responsible authority again gives Ibn Rushd its trust. Today, an investigator sitting on the Executive Committee of the Social Democrats is presenting proposals to support religious communities. The investigator, who is chairman of the Social Democrats for Faith and Solidarity, and his organisation, has close cooperation with people who have links similar to those of Mehmet Kaplan and Ibn Rushd. The investigator's proposal has just been presented. He suggests that religions that invite hate preachers should get rid of government subsidies. Unfortunately, Rushd Rushds or some member organizations record is not the best, unfortunately. I hope that this and other debates will influence this study association in the right direction, but unfortunately it does not seem that we are there yet. I think that Amineh Kakabaveh's questions are relevant, and I think that the Government ducks for them in its answer. It doesn't hold, I think. Come out on the track and give me some good news! Is it okay, then, that a government agency, for example, assigns assignments to organisations that employ a contentious, undisputed expert, who reduces the serious violence of honour and who criticises honorable anti-racists as a house servant?
i-02a6739951f9341d-198	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Mr Kakabaveh and Mr Danielsson, for your questions. I am convinced that both interpellants are well aware of the regulations that we as ministers have to deal with. Exercising ourselves in the exercise of authority is something we should stay far away from. We should not point and tell our independent, independent authorities how to carry out their missions. On the other hand, we will give clear assignments. As Mr Kakabaveh read out, the mission clearly referred to authorities to cooperate with, and so it did not say that they should cooperate with Ibn Rushd. It was very clear. There is also a special arrangement for how we follow up the work of authorities. I will follow this up in the special order that we are to follow. It is also crucial when we deal with these difficult issues, issues that I naturally share the fear of. These are questions of racialism, of honour violence and motherhood d, of what society we should have and of what values we should build our society. But on all these difficult issues it is also vital that we exercise our power properly and not at the same time undermine our administration, how we run our country, because then we have really done democracy a disservice. Within a few weeks, by March 30th, SST will report the mission. Then there is a special arrangement for how we receive the report. In addition, in recent weeks we have had reason to ensure, according to the regulations we as a government should and should comply with, that we have clarified to SST what the mission means, so that there are no misconceptions. I look forward to hearing the report. I also look forward to there being a broad consensus to start from in the Swedish parliament when we need to be clear about which country Sweden should be and how we comply with our constitutions and live up to the freedoms that generations of Swedes before us have fought for. At the same time, we need to be much clearer about how our common funds are used. The support for religious communities, on which I received the investigator's proposal today, has not been investigated for nearly 20 years since the state was separated from the church. This is despite the fact that society has changed considerably. There are a number of regulations, and not least constitutions, to deal with. Freedom of religion is one of them, the European Convention is another. I look forward to the discussions that I hope the investigator's proposal will now arise, and I hope that many will respond to the investigator's proposal in the consultation that is now taking place.
i-02a6739951f9341d-208	Madam President, I would like It is a great sin that the Minister of Culture does not take on the criticism. Of course, you pay tax money to a non-profit association and you appoint it to fight hate crime, which is one of the most important issues. We know that racism is spreading, that there is Islamophobia and that Muslims pay the price. One should not enrich the followers of the brotherhood. Aje Carlbom will now come on Thursday with a comprehensive report on the fraternity's associated organizations, including Ibn Rushd. More than four members of the board are associated with the brotherhood. One of them is your own party partner in Solna, Mohamed Temsamani, who hails Erdo中an as a political hero and also what I understand has done practice with the Brotherhood in Egypt. Ibn Rushd's treasurer Mustafa al-Sayed-Sayed actually hangs in a column in Expressen out the editorial writer Sofie Löwenmark. He spreads in his chronicle a sexist photo montage, where a female chronicler is depicted as a bikini girl who surfs on a wave with the label. It should be remembered that this is about an organisation that has received 600 000 Swedish kronor to combat hate crimes and other racist and sexist crimes. So it is not a question of us not respecting religion. What does this have to do with religion? This is something that runs counter to all religions and all the people who have struggled for the brotherhood to spread more and more with tax funds. This will also affect integration, the view of women, gender equality and the majority society and the view of the moderate Muslims who are themselves fighting for their rights and to make others understand that not all Muslims are Islamists and are not like Ibn Rushd. The Minister mentions the reporting, but what does it matter when all criticism is dismissed by both SST and Ibn Rushd's Vice-Chancellor Omar Mustafa? The campaign receives criticism on the editorial pages of Expressen, DN, GP, Sydsvenskan and Gefle Dagblad. Both the SST, the Islamic League and Ibn Rushd have responded to the criticism without waiting for any investigation. So it's already done. It's just like with the investigation that Ulf Bjereld has come up with. I have not read it yet and cannot comment on it, but unfortunately you just stand here and mention a lot of concepts and principles. This is rightly done – I agree with the Minister that the European Convention, human rights, religious freedom and all this must be respected. That's why Ibn Rushd is not a suitable organization – because of the hate crimes and that they are the followers of the brotherhood. In a suit and with a pen and other things, they walk in the corridors and shake hands with politicians. Politicians and society have a responsibility for this.
i-02a6739951f9341d-216	Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council. In my first speech, I was critical of the Authority for Support to Faith Communities. I think it is good that Amineh Kakabaveh has drawn up this example in his interpellation, and I feel that the Government has listened to what we have put forward; that is good. I note that the Government said two things in its last speech. She will follow up on the agency's work in the way it is supposed to and produce examples of when it may have fallen outside the scope. I think that's good. The Government also said that the Authority will soon report on the mission. It is also an opportunity to examine it and see how it has been handled. She also said that the government, through Minister Bah Kuhnke, has had contacts with the Swedish Agency for Support to Faith Society and clarified to them what the mission means. I think that's a good news. In Sweden we have probably been a little naive on these issues. They're very important. We must fight racism, Islamophobia and Islamism in every way and strive for us all to go that way. Previously, we thought it had been easy: If you cross the border to Sweden, you have Swedish values. But it is not so fast, so it is important to continue this work and to pay attention when it is lacking. That is what this debate has been about.
i-02a6739951f9341d-220	Madam President, I would like Much remains to be done, and that is precisely why, since the day we took office, we have implemented a series of measures to ensure that the activities or organisations that share our common funds strengthen our democracy and our society, do not undermine them. In spite of this, during the past 10 to 15 years there have been rough examples of transgressions at regular intervals. Even organisations that have received state aid – another state aid, but still state aid – have called for violence in Sergels plazas. So we clearly have a lot to do. Every krona that goes wrong is a krona too much. Extremism must be resisted, and we must ensure that we have clear regulations that prevent such things from happening. With regard to support for religious communities, which SST has to deal with, the regulatory framework is unclear. This is also something that the investigator today described when he presented extremely clearer rules, which one might think should have been there a very long time ago but which we now have a chance to implement. However, it will require a qualified majority in the Swedish Parliament to get them through, as this is also linked to law. I would like to emphasise that the mission given to SST by the government to combat the racism that many other authorities – the Crime Prevention Council, the Discrimination Ombudsman and others – describe, and, as the interpeller also describes, did not include cooperating with any particular organisation. On the other hand, it was stated that knowledge and experience from relevant actors such as the Police Authority, the Crime Prevention Council and the Living History Forum would be sought. I would also like to stress the importance of us, while, as always, welcoming critical debate and discussion, because I believe that it is for the benefit of all of us to maintain governance and sharpen our arguments, also holding the order that ministers and ministers should not engage in the exercise of authority. We should not go into ongoing assignments or processing and tell authorities how, but they should relate to the mission they have received. It should be clear and good so that they know what to do. Then, when the mission is reported, we will possibly act. That is what the order looks like, and I am keen to keep it. The challenges we face and what needs to be done will require clarity and a great deal of effort. There's no room for trembling on the cuff. Everyone who is involved in these issues or who works with the women's shelters who support and hide many of the young girls and women who live under oppression and honour and risk their lives to live their free lives. We have a lot of work to do.
i-02a6739951f9341d-226	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Culture! As the Minister for Culture himself says, this has come to the attention of these authorities about hate crimes. Therefore, the appropriate authorities are. We cannot do that, in a society where we want everyone to be equal, that we divide: Muslims should only work with Muslims and Swedes only with Swedes. If we want a society in which men and women, Muslims and non-Muslims, all people, homosexuals, young people and the elderly are involved, we must ensure that society has a shared responsibility. It's up to politics. I don't want anyone interfering in the exercise of authority. It's not about that. It's about us paying tax money. We pay tax money to organizations. We also need to see who they are. I am thinking of the experts of those organisations. Kitimbwa Sabuni often publicly says that the work against honour repression is an expression of colonial logic. He says that under the colonial order, the colonizer retrieves what it needs from the colonized, including their children. This is the opinion of the experts, so what difference does it make if they make any other letters? They dismiss all criticism. Omar Mustafa, Ibn Rushd's Vice-Chancellor, himself reported Sweden to the UN for the work we do against honour repression. What can you expect? How can it be seen that they will be representatives of women and of everyone? I can't. We know that, Alice Bah. Therefore, it is important that we open our eyes and ears. If we want a society in which Muslim hate crimes, racism and all of this are to be combated, we must ensure that people who are not themselves hostile to women work on this.
i-02a6739951f9341d-229	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the participants in the interpellation debate for their committed and informed questions. I am grateful that I am Minister of Culture and Democracy in a government that, together with other spheres of power, where the Swedish Parliament is the central one, has the opportunity to both defend and protect our constitutions and our freedoms. We do so with an insightfulness and, as Mr Kakabaveh just said, with our eyes and ears open to the threats to our freedoms and to how we defend them in the best way. I want to be able to meet all the young people in our country and look them in the eye – no matter where they live and no matter where their parents come from – and say forcefully that they were born in a free country or have come to a free country. Here, too, they will be free. We will start from what generations of Swedes before us have fought for and continue to manage and strengthen the opportunities of all individuals in our country.
i-02a6739951f9341d-231	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg has asked me whether I believe that the crimes and other acts committed by animal welfare activists in order to prevent the implementation of decisions taken democratically constitute a serious democratic problem in Sweden. Johan Hultberg has also asked whether I am prepared to take the initiative in identifying animal rights-related crime and its impact on, and threats to, our democracy and what measures I intend to take to counteract and, not least, prevent the influx of undemocratic activist groups and the use of undemocratic methods of influence. A democratic society presupposes that everyone respects the rights of others and that contradictions are resolved according to the rules of democracy. Preventing and combating crime and violent extremism are high priority issues. The government has strengthened the prevention of crime and established a centre against violent extremism at the Crime Prevention Council as of 1 January. For further questions on this work, I refer to the responsible Minister Morgan Johansson. People's trust in fellow human beings and in social institutions, including the implementation of democratic decisions, is crucial to the functioning of a society. At the same time, it is crucial that decisions can be examined, criticised and reviewed. Our public dialogue rests on freedom of expression, which forms the basis of a living democracy. The democracy inquiry concluded in 2016 that Swedish democracy is strong but that the political influence is not evenly distributed. The Government's goal for democracy policy is that Sweden should be a living democracy that is sustainable, characterized by participation and where the opportunities for influence are equal. We want to prevent undemocratic practices by promoting democratic ones. That is why it is important to continue to support the broad work of democracy. To support democratic participation between the elections, the Government allocates funds to the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils to promote civil dialogues. It is gratifying that we see an increase in citizens' proposals as well as people's initiatives and citizens' dialogues in municipalities and county councils.
i-02a6739951f9341d-235	Madam President, I would like Sweden has a very well-developed democracy. We have constitutionally protected civil rights, such as freedom of opinion, religion, demonstration and expression. In Sweden, we can all freely express our views as long as we do not, for example, become guilty of incitement to ethnic groups or slander. We can all form opinion, engage and organize politically or content ourselves with exerting our influence by using our voting rights. We can use the public space to demonstrate and protest, and we can count on the protection of society when necessary to safely exercise our democratic rights and freedoms. The Internet and social media have opened up completely new opportunities for political influence. Not only can the old media and established parties and politicians now participate or set the agenda for public debate, but now we have really been able to broaden democratic influence. I think the Metoo movement is a good and timely example of how individual citizens have been able to join forces and join forces to draw attention to a serious social problem, form opinion and influence politics and social development at large. Madam President, I would like Despite these amazing opportunities for democratic influence and influence, there are people, groups and organisations who do not think this is enough and who use illegal methods in their pursuit of a certain political goal. In my opinion, these people and groups are guilty of serious violations of our democracy. For example, anyone who breaks into a farm and steals animals based on political motives attacks not only the individual farmer but also the freedom of trade and our democratic society. Madam President, I would like Sweden has fairly extensive problems with animal rights activists and animal rights organisations that do not stick to the democratic playing field but threaten, harass, molest, steal and commit vandalism in order to achieve their political goals. Madam President, I would like That is the background to my interpellation with the Minister for Democracy. In my interpellation, I asked three questions. The first two were basically simple yes or no questions. I wondered whether the Minister shares my view that the crimes and other acts committed by animal welfare activists in order to prevent the implementation of decisions taken democratically constitute a serious democratic problem. I asked whether the Minister is prepared to take the initiative in identifying animal rights-related crime and its impact on and threats to our democracy. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, I did not get a clear answer to these questions, especially to the second question. In my first speech, I am content to repeat these two issues and hope that the Minister for Democracy can give me clear answers.
i-02a6739951f9341d-243	Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council. I discussed this important issue in November with Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson. The issue is deeply democratically serious, and Sweden is a bit in trouble. Between 2003 and 2010, 341 crimes of a more serious nature were reported against Swedish mink farmers. The number was highest in the world, although Denmark, for example, has 20 times more mink farms than Sweden. I started from animal rights activists who have very strongly harassed a single family, a single breeder, outside Falkenberg. It has been done through daily and nightly visits in a terrorist-like way. I suggested that there should be stronger instruments from the police and others in order to be able to call off the animal house as an area where one cannot exercise one's right of demonstration day and night. A restraining order must be possible much faster than it is today. I hope that the Government will perhaps be able to take part in that debate. That is my collective wisdom in the matter, and everyone's voices shall be heard. It is a good interpellation that Johan Hultberg has made. Several government ministers are working on these issues. My opinion is that there is a cow on the ice. People suffer and are driven to cease their legal activities by people who do not accept laws and regulations but believe they have the truth and the truth. For example, they can drive mink farms or fur stores to close down. That cannot be accepted in a democracy. I have every respect that one might think that we should, for example, stop production or something else. It can be carried out democratically. But we must not go undemocratically and, through terror, we must not go bankrupt or close down. I mean, it's about that. In Sweden there are a very small number of people who are passionate about this and who go far and wide. We must stop and prevent that. My view is that today the police have too little means to help these people who are attacked time and again. The first of my proposals was that there must be severe fines when doing such things, so that you suffer much more financially than today when you want to destroy another person's, an entrepreneur's, economy. The second was that when you repeatedly demonstrate at the animal house or home, voice threats and so on, the police must be able to say: These people, we know who they are, and others must not get close. The police will alert an area of a few kilometers around the site to remove the disturbance. Those were my two suggestions. I hope they can be tested. I would like to recall that the Minister of Justice said that work is under way to review regulations and so on. I hope things can happen.
i-02a6739951f9341d-253	Madam President, I would like I thank the speakers in the interpellation debate for the questions. I started by being very clear and brief in my answers to Johan Hultberg. Is it wrong to commit a crime? Yes, no doubt, with no quaking on the cuff. In my written reply, I tried to put out the text in order not to simply answer with a yes. Should I take the initiative in identifying the crimes? No. It is not because I am not interested in identifying crimes so that resources can then be allocated and led in evidence, but because I am not responsible for the police and the Crime Prevention Council. There are two authorities working on crime mapping. This, in turn, could be the basis for making further investments. We've reinforced the police's work. That is perhaps what the Minister of Justice referred to in a previous interpellation debate. We do this so that there will be more resources to investigate crimes and identify them. I think it is absolutely crucial that we always ensure that if crimes are committed, they will become a matter for the judiciary. I'll have the police investigate what's happened. If you suspect a crime, you should report it. It's always true and everywhere. I would like to devote a few seconds to the bottom of what Johan Hultberg started with. It is about how many amazing opportunities there are in our country to organise themselves to pursue issues. As we all know in here, we are one of the most developed associations in the world. You should have a lot to blame for not organising yourself democratically. In my world, there's not a single excuse not to. All the conditions are in place to organise democratically. We also live in a free country where you can think and think what you want. You can't do what you want, but you can think and think freely. As long as it's a great opportunity to be free in the tank. It can make it easy to find someone else who shares the same commitment and desire to change. I think that the me-too movement, which Johan Hultberg mentioned, is a fantastic example of a recent organisation that has gained tremendous power. They have come together and shared their experiences and thus knowledge. They have in a way driven opinion, courted politicians and so on. That is something we have not yet seen at the end of. There are real opportunities in our country. If you suspect a crime, it should always be reported to the police. It's up to the police to investigate. If a crime has been committed, one should be held accountable and punishment should be imposed.
i-02a6739951f9341d-262	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for the clear answers given here. I'm glad I could get such clear answers. My point was that it is not just a problem for the judiciary and Morgan Johansson as Minister of Justice. It is very much also a question of democracy and a threat to democracy. It is therefore an issue that the Minister for Democracy should take very seriously. Taking very seriously, I believe that the Minister for Democracy must make a strong mark, as I felt she did just now, against the form of activism that goes beyond the law. But I also think that the Minister needs to take the initiative in various measures that can prevent and also punish the undemocratic forces. It is quite right that the Minister for Democracy must join the Minister for Justice, because much of this work is, of course, about the judicial system having to go in and deal with this crime, clear up the crimes and eventually impose penalties. There's still a lot of work to be done here. I have for a long time been pushing that the police and the Security Service need to work more strategically and in a coordinated manner with this crime, that there is a need for serious penalties and that it needs to be easier to impose a restraining order and, as Staffan Danielsson was concerned, a restraining order. Madam President, I would like I would like to follow up on the issue of using various forms of civil disobedience, as it is usually called. The Minister said in his interpellation response: a democratic society presupposes that everyone respects the rights of others and that contradictions are resolved according to the rules of democracy. I fully agree with that. At the same time, however, I wonder how that statement rhymes with the Minister's own party programme, because in the Green Party's party programme, among other things, it says, and I quote again: Civil disobedience means acts which are currently prohibited, but which pay attention to injustices and societal problems according to the principle of non-violence, transparency, the pursuit of dialogue and the readiness to take their punishment. Civil disobedience can continue to be important in democracy. ..................................................... So, Madam President, the MP writes in his party programme that crime can be important for democracy. Then I have to ask the Minister for Democracy whether it is also her view that civil disobedience can be important even in Swedish democracy. Madam President, I would like I would also like to mention what Mr Danielsson mentioned in his speech about those actions which may not be contrary to any law but which are in the grey area of how it is intended to use our democratic rights and freedoms, such as the freedom of demonstration. Danielsson mentioned a farmer outside Falkenberg, more specifically in the Glommen, who on about twenty occasions in just one month has been exposed and greeted by animal rights activists. When the police have arrived, they have defended themselves by using only their freedom of demonstration. Of course, on the farm they do not meet anyone but the individual farmer, so it is obviously a way of harassing the individual with the stated aim of getting the farmer to shut down his business. So I think it is an example of abuse of our democratic rights and freedoms. This is an issue that I think the Minister for Democracy should take seriously.
i-02a6739951f9341d-270	Madam President, I would like I would like to underline the seriousness of the situation on this issue, how important it is and how important it is, as Johan Hultberg said, that the Government cooperates with the Minister for Justice. There I think the answer is a little too tame in terms of what you can do and get to continue to do in Sweden. Sometimes individuals come to the farm, sometimes several tens, day and night. Sometimes they're masked, sometimes they're not. Sometimes they use loudspeakers, which scares the animals. One Saturday evening last autumn, some twenty people came to the farm. They honked, used sirens and bells and demanded that the farmer come out. Only the sons were home. The sons called for help. They refused to leave the farm. Handmuffs broke out with fists. They sprayed with red paint. The next day, the protesters returned to the farm and chained themselves. On Instagram, one of the demonstrators posted a text with a picture of a skeleton dangling in a gallows. That's where we are today. It's good that the minister says the police will prosecute and arrest those who commit crimes. But it is also a question of preventing crime so that this company does not have to live in such a terrible uncertainty about when the demonstrators will come next time and with such terror also on social media. That's a good interpellation response. The government is heading in the right direction. However, my view is that here we need strong action and action that is considerably stronger than those available to the police today. I hope that the Minister will work in this direction.
i-02a6739951f9341d-274	Madam President, I would like I think there are few democrats in this House and in our country who do not know the history of Sweden and who are not well aware that people's organisation and protests have not always gone hand in hand with existing legislation. I also know very few historians who don't admit it. With humility for the future, it is likely to continue to be so. The conviction that I and all the environmentalists I know share is that one should never, never harm people or property and that one should always adhere to laws and rules. It is not least crucial when you are a politician. I have chosen to organise myself partisanly because I have found my platform. And I call on all people, young and elderly, to organise themselves politically, because we need to be many who want to use our parliamentary system to bring about change. This does not mean that I also do not call on young and elderly people to join the Red Cross and other interest groups such as local communities, Scouts and all that it can be, but also to use our parliamentary system, which provides an excellent platform for achieving long-term change and fighting for rights. Prevention is, of course, crucial. Of course, the police should have the resources to investigate crimes and lead them into evidence and that the rule of law may eventually impose punishment. But prevention is crucial. It goes back to the fact that the adult world and, not least, we politicians and society at large need to offer and attract young people into democratic activities. That is why, since we took office, the government has made a number of efforts to strengthen support for civil society and also for municipalities in order to help people be channelled into democratic platforms for their commitment. Everything else is detours to change. However, as one of the speakers stressed, there is a greyscale here that we must catch up with and offer demographic alternatives. I spend a lot of time almost every week pointing this out somewhere in the country. Strengthened support for civil society, strengthened support for municipalities, so that they can channel the involvement of their residents, and also strengthened support for schools is central. The school has received more resources and a clearer assignment on these issues. Not least, we have strengthened the work against threats and hatred, which happens on many levels, via the Swedish Media Council when it comes to social media. Unfortunately, there is too much illegality, although the same laws and rules apply there as in real life. It is also a question of protecting those who bring our cause to the fore. Journalists need to be protected in order to be able to monitor and examine among other powers and politicians like me and you.
i-02a6739951f9341d-279	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, I have to say that the undisputed answer from the Minister for Democracy earlier that crime is never okay was no longer so undisputed. Now the Minister for Democracy could not clearly distance himself from civil disobedience but said that there could be opportunities, implicitly, where it could obviously be okay. I think it is a problem that we have a government party that is unable to distance itself clearly enough from civil disobedience in a Swedish context. Here, as we previously agreed, we have great opportunities to influence in a democratic way. That's why it's troubling. Back to the gray areas! When my colleague Åsa Coenraads had a corresponding debate with the Minister of Justice, she highlighted something very good, namely that the police must be given greater powers to reject disturbing elements. That is also what Staffan Danielsson was into. Today football hooligans and protestors are busied far away if they interfere with a match or a demonstration. Why can't you do the same when animal rights activists invade a farm or interfere, for example, with an ongoing hunt for wolves, as there are examples? I think that the Minister for Democracy should take a number of initiatives together with the Minister for Justice. I saw on Agenda in SVT last Sunday that the Minister for Democracy, together with the Minister for Civil Affairs, had taken a commendable initiative and invited affected politicians who had been threatened to talk about what to do. I call on the Minister for Democracy to take the corresponding initiative to invite affected farmers, affected hunters and others who have endured animal activism, because this cannot be tolerated. It is a serious threat to democracy, and it is important that the government does everything in its power to limit it.
i-02a6739951f9341d-283	Madam President, I would like It is not acceptable to commit crimes. It is incredibly central that we, as political representatives and myself as government ministers, are extremely clear on this issue. It's not okay, as the interpeller put it, to commit crimes. If you suspect a crime, it should be reported to the police, and the police should have the resources to conduct matters. Punishment shall be imposed if a person is convicted of a crime. That's it. That's it. In parallel, we shall have an understanding of how we in our country have obtained the right to vote and many of the basic conditions under which we today enjoy the joy of living. Generations of Swedes before us have fought for this. We need to know our history and know that it has been preceded by civil disobedience. We need to know, know, and be humble about that. But it is important to keep several balls in the air at the same time. For me, it is never acceptable to harm other people or their property. I stress that crime is unacceptable. The police must have the resources, and you must be held accountable and punished if you commit crimes. Thank you for the interpellation. For me, this is a simple and clear issue at its core. We will fight crime in our society. Everyone should be able to run their activities and develop as people. At the same time, it places demands on us. We're going to have a solid prevention effort. We need to invest in society, in people and in platforms so that not least young people can channel their ideas, feel that they can take their place and express it democratically. It's up to us to ensure that.
i-02a6739951f9341d-286	Madam President, I would like Olof Lavesson has asked me how I justify that it is compatible with the government's work on democracy that organisations with dubious democratic credibility can take part in government missions and have access to state financial support. Like Olof Lavesson, I think it is of the utmost importance to work hard against Islamophobia, anti-Semitism and homophobia and against hate crimes. I have been making it clear for years that public funds should not go to organisations that operate contrary to the ideas of democracy. That is also what applies in the regulations governing state subsidies. Authorities may recover grants if the purpose is not met. However, existing regulations are not enough. There is a need for a clearer democracy condition and an improved application of it. An example of the government's actions is the inquiry into support for religious communities, which presented its proposals today. The study suggests how the democratic condition can be clarified with regard to the religious communities. This proposal is now to be referred to. In addition, there is an ongoing investigation to review grants granted by the General Heritage Fund. This study will make its proposals after the summer. In addition to these investigations, the Government decided last week to set up an investigation that will broadly review how a clarified democracy condition can be introduced for government grants aimed at civil society. The government has also commissioned authorities to report back on how to test democratic values in their contribution. This work will lead to a regulatory framework that in future can more clearly reflect our common view that tax funds should not go to organisations and activities that counteract the values expressed in the form of government, while ensuring that the trial is legally secure.
i-02a6739951f9341d-291	Madam President, I would like I'm proud of our country. I am proud of Sweden. I am proud of and grateful to previous generations, who have worked hard for the openness that prevails in Sweden, where you can feel hope and confidence in the future but also security and where more people want to stay and grow. Sweden is a country where you know that you can get a refuge from violence and persecution and can live without feeling threatened or oppressed. Sweden is a country where you are respected, regardless of the gender you have, where you come from, what you believe in and who you love. Freedom and openness, security and justice, consideration and respect – that is the very foundation of what we call Sweden. That's why it's so dangerous when these values are threatened. That is precisely why it is also extremely important that we have control over the way in which the government's tasks to safeguard these values are carried out and how they are financed. Madam President, I would like Let me be clear. Racism, homophobia, hate crime, Islamophobia and anti-Semitism are phenomena that are completely incompatible with Swedish values. Honor-related crime and honour-related repression are equally unacceptable regardless of religion or culture. On this I know that I and the Minister for Culture and Democracy are in complete agreement. In order to combat racism directed against Muslims, the Government last autumn gave the Swedish Agency for Support to Faith Communities a mission to conduct regional seminars in autumn 2017 in order to increase the tendency to report crimes and report discrimination against Muslims. For this, SEK 700 000 was set aside. The agency chose to delegate in principle the entire mission and 600 000 of the funds directly to an individual study association, Ibn Rushd. I will not enter into a detailed debate on the individual study association. That debate has just taken place in this House. But the Minister must also see the problem in the fact that the whole mission and the whole initiative end up with an individual organisation, an organisation that has been strongly debated and questioned, not least for alleged links with movements and people who clearly oppose what the government wants to achieve. Madam President, I would like Is this really what the government envisaged when deciding on the important task of increasing the tendency to report crimes and discrimination against Muslims? My question to the minister in the interpellation was how she justifies that it is compatible with the government's democratic work that organisations with dubious democratic credibility are allowed to participate in government missions and have access to state financial support. I appreciate the Minister's list of what is to come, but I am not sure that was a real answer to the question. However, I take it that the Minister cannot justify it and that this is not compatible with the government's democratic work. Is that a correct interpretation?
i-02a6739951f9341d-297	Madam President, I would like I thank Olof Lavesson for the question. Our public funds should not go to organisations and activities that undermine our democracy and should not support opinions and ideas that are not compatible with our democratic principles – end of story! It is extremely frustrating that we are regularly being made aware that this has happened. It is certainly gratifying that there will be debate and discussion, but a crown of extremism is a crown too much. We will need to make huge changes and clarifications in order to safeguard our freedoms. What is worrying on the other side is that if we do not succeed in this piece of art, we will finally begin to question our freedoms – our freedom of expression, our freedom of opinion and our right to live as we want, to love whom we want and to be as we want. This will be called into question and undermined. This is one of the biggest tasks we have, not least in this House, when decisions and possible legislative changes are eventually put on the table. We must defend our fundamental freedoms. In the current cases that Olof Lavesson raises in his question, it is about the government adopting an action plan against racism more than a year ago and then an action plan against threats and hatred. In the work of the action plan, we identified documents for authorities such as the police, the Crime Prevention Council, the Discrimination Ombudsman and others. We identified and put together the figures on what racism and discrimination are like in our society today, because they are in conflict with our constitutions and freedoms as human beings. We saw that we need to make a number of efforts, and we have done so. We have strengthened our work on agreements with the parties in Parliament, for example on anti-Semitism. We also saw that we need to do several things when it comes to racism against Muslims. As part of the action plan against racism, SST, the Swedish Agency for Support to Faith Society, received a mission in autumn 2017, to be reported by 30 March, in two weeks' time. For the reason that we and the Swedish people were largely aware of how the mission was carried out, my department and my State Secretary have had talks with the authority to ensure that the mission has been understood. We believe that this is a clear mission when it comes to what we want to be done. But in assignments we don't point out – we never do – which organisations you shouldn't cooperate with, nor do we give any concrete details about how, but it's a description of what to fight or, as in this case, what to create knowledge about. When I receive the report on how the mission has been carried out, I will take note of it and then take the next step.
i-02a6739951f9341d-306	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Culture points out both what has been done now and the various investigations that have been launched. One is delivered today and is about the authority concerned, although it is much broader in its perspective than the issue we are debating here today. The investigation Democracy conditions in government funding is extremely important, but it should not be completed until next summer. At the same time, we must take responsibility for what is happening here today. I understand that it is not pointed out which organisations you should not work with – there would be very long lists – but I wonder how you look at the authority choosing to delegate the entire initiative and, in principle, the entire budget to a single organisation. In an interpellation debate with Amineh Kakabaveh earlier here today, the Minister stated and has also reiterated that in the mission given to the Authority by the Government, it does not say that one should cooperate with organisations specifically to carry out the mission, but this is something that the Authority itself has decided on. My natural question will then be: does the Minister think that the authority has acted in accordance with the mandate given by the government? Is this compatible? The Minister for Culture made it clear in the previous debate that it will clarify to the Authority what the mission means, and today she says that a dialogue should be held for the reasons set out. But this dialogue is already under way. There is an ongoing dialogue between the department and the authorities that are under it and that has been given various assignments. I wonder: has the Minister for Culture or the Secretary of State raised this in the dialogue, and what has the authority replied?
i-02a6739951f9341d-312	Madam President, I would like Yes, we have had dialogues for the reasons we have had in recent weeks. It is not something that we will have, but we acted directly to ensure that the mission has been understood, because it is urgent that all the missions are. I will not be reporting here what has been said in the talks, but I will follow the order that we are to follow and that I am keen to safeguard. A mission is re-reported, we take part in the reporting and then any measures are taken. Again: I think we need to be able to hold several balls in the air at the same time. We do not want politicians who go in and direct and point out to the authorities in our country. There are countries where this happens, but we should not have such a system in Sweden. On the other hand, we should have politicians and, above all, ministers who evaluate, follow up and ensure that the tasks given are clear. It is an ongoing and important mission to ensure that the dark number for hate crime should not be so large anymore. We will reduce it and ensure that you report crimes that you are exposed to so that the police can allocate the right resources to investigate the crimes and then call people to account. However, I would like to point out that the mandate given to the agency stated that the Agency should acquire knowledge and experience from relevant actors such as the Police Authority, the Discrimination Ombudsman, the Crime Prevention Council and the Living History Forum and apply a gender perspective. We were clear with which to take in knowledge. In other words, it is far too early for me to stand here and say how you have carried out your mission, because it is ongoing and not yet reported. The mission is to be terminated, and I need to take note of the report.
i-02a6739951f9341d-318	Madam President, I would like No, as a minister, you should not begin dictating how authorities should work or relate exactly to how they carry out their activities in detail. On the other hand, it is hoped that it will be related to the tasks which it has itself distributed and that it will ensure that the directives are complied with. The directives certainly state that knowledge should be acquired, but there is a huge difference between acquiring knowledge from the organisations concerned and delegating the entire responsibility to an individual organisation. I believe that I and the Minister can agree on this. In this way, there is nothing in the directives that gives the authority any direction – that they would delegate the whole responsibility to someone else, especially to anyone who can be questioned as can be done with the study associations concerned. These are important and difficult issues– I share the Minister's view there. The fact that these are difficult issues also shows the rather sharp criticism that both the Minister for Culture and the Ministry have received over the years for how democracy issues are dealt with. The Minister says that she will not report here on the dialogues and discussions that the Ministry conducts with its authorities on an ongoing basis. I can have some understanding of this, but for my part I assume that this has been made clear to the Swedish Agency for Support for Religious Society and it has also been pointed out that what the agency is now doing is not in line but can be questioned based on how we view democracy in Sweden. I would like to end with a question: will the debriefing that will take place by 30 March, to which the Minister refers, be made public, and will we know how to debrief and what the government's response to the report will be?
i-02a6739951f9341d-323	Madam President, I would like I assume that the re-report will be made according to all the rules of art. We have clear regulations and a principle of public access. The reports we receive about how the assignments are carried out by our independent authorities will be able to read and take part of. It's a matter of course, and it always works. These are, as I said, urgent issues. We need to be many who are clear and who handle many balls at the same time, because there are forces that want to take the easy roads, limit everything and ultimately limit our freedoms. I go with full force and great commitment into these issues, because I protect our constitutions just as I know Olof Lavesson does. Therefore, we need to be many who are strong and convinced that we want to keep a direction and correction in the debate, be able to separate apples from pears and simply stand firm even when it blows.
i-02a6739951f9341d-325	Madam President, I would like Mikael Oscarsson has asked me whether the Swedish Government shares the view that it is obliged to prosecute IS/ Daish warriors for genocide and whether the Swedish Government is prepared to join the Dutch Government and put together a proposal in the UN Security Council to establish an international court for IS/ Daish warriors. I can begin by saying that Swedish criminal law also provides opportunities to prosecute people for genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, regardless of where and by whom the crime is committed. This has also happened in relation to a number of cases arising from the conflict in Syria. Punishment is not an option; accountability is necessary. Sweden continues to prioritise accountability at the UN and will work closely with like-minded people, including the Netherlands, to this end. Daish has committed and is committing gross, systematic and widespread abuse in Syria and Iraq. Yazidi, Christians, non-Sunnitic Muslims and other groups are severely affected by Daish's brutality. Men, women and children have been subjected to hideous crimes. There is no doubt that very serious crimes have been committed. I have said before in this House that in my eyes, and in many others, these abuses are crimes against humanity. The guilty must be held to account. Several hundred people have travelled from Sweden to join Daish and other violent extremist groups in the area. Several of these have returned. Those who have participated in these brutalities in Syria and Iraq will be prosecuted and punished. This applies regardless of whether the crimes constitute genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes or terrorist offences. At the national level, the government has taken several measures to strengthen legislation and significantly strengthen the judicial capacity. The Police Authority and the Swedish Security Service have been given considerable resources, which has also created better conditions for investigating serious crimes abroad. Terrorist travel has been criminalised, and the government also intends to propose a special criminal liability for participation in a terrorist organisation. We are not waiting for a legal assessment to act to reduce the suffering caused by Daish's abuse in Iraq and Syria. The government is also working internationally to hold responsible for crimes and abuse in Syria and Iraq to account. During our time in the UN Security Council, we have, of course, worked to ensure that the situation in Syria and Iraq remained high on the agenda, as well as supported initiatives and decisions that can help bring perpetrators there to justice and that victims receive justice. Sweden has actively promoted and consistently stressed that human rights violations and violations of international humanitarian law must be investigated and perpetrators held accountable. Sweden co-sponsored UN Security Council Resolution 2379, which was adopted in September 2017. The resolution specifically mentions human rights abuses, in particular those committed against women and children, including acts of religious or ethnic abuse. The resolution instructs the UN Secretary-General to set up an investigation team to assist the Government of Iraq, including the collection of evidence, to be led by a special adviser. Sweden also co-sponsored the resolution voted at the UN General Assembly in December 2016, which decided to set up an international, independent and independent mechanism to assist investigations and prosecutions in Syria. In addition, Sweden co-sponsored Security Council Resolution 2396, adopted in December 2017, which aims to create more robust international cooperation to deal with foreign terrorist fighters and facilitate their prosecution. The government, together with other EU countries, has consistently stressed the importance of empowering the International Criminal Court, the ICC, for the crimes committed in Syria, and called on Iraq to join the Court of Justice. The UN independent commission of inquiry into Syria and the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights have also recommended that the ICC investigate the international crimes committed in Syria and Iraq. Sweden has supported a number of resolutions in, among others, the UN Human Rights Council, which underlined the important role the ICC can play in the situations in Syria and Iraq. Unfortunately, the question of referring the situation in Syria to the ICC has been blocked in the UN Security Council.
i-02a6739951f9341d-334	Madam President, I would like IS/ Daish's brutality, abuse and genocide against Christians, Yazidians and non-Sunnitic Muslims have shocked a whole world. According to the Council of Europe, the aim was precisely to destroy these groups. Today, after what has happened tremendously, the wounds of the population of northwestern Syria are anything but healed. Villages lie desolate, partly because of the vandalisation and looting of IS terrorists and partly because of uncertainty about the future of a region with a significant presence of terrorism. These deserted villages are a bleak symbol of all the areas formerly inhabited by Christians and occupied by the Islamic State. The places are free and the terrorists have been driven away. But the population is afraid to return. The Christian villagers of the Nineves plain in northern Iraq, located around the million - city of Mosul, were liberated just over six months ago. But like the deserted men in northwestern Syria, many homes in the area are empty. Children's toys are scattered on the ground, and no happy laughter is heard between the walls of the house. Those who arrive to renovate their homes are often forced to return to the refugee camps because of lack of food and water. During these years, the Christian population in Iraq has fallen drastically, from 1.4 million to less than 250 000. Many of the IS/ Daish warriors came from Europe. According to estimates from Säpo, approximately 300 people from Sweden travelled to Syria and Iraq during the period 2012 – 2016 to join extreme terrorist groups, primarily IS/ Daish. It is estimated that it was a total of about 5 700 from Europe. The European Parliament has now recognised the abuse as genocide, including through the work of Lars Adaktusson. The Council of Europe has also stated that these were acts of genocide against Christians, Yazidians and non-Sunnitic Muslims with a view to eradicating these groups. The Council of Europe has said that Member States should recognise the genocide that has been committed and ensure that specific measures are taken to prevent and punish them under international law. The origin of this interpellation is that on 22 February this year the Netherlands Parliament adopted a resolution on the initiative of the Christian Democrats there, calling on the government of the country to present concrete proposals to the UN Security Council with a view to prosecuting and punishing terrorists linked to IS/ Daish. Unfortunately, so far, there is no international legal mechanism to try this. The recently adopted Dutch resolution is based precisely on the position of the Council of Europe. According to the Council of Europe, the United Nations Convention on Genocide applies in this context. This boils down to the question I would like to put to the Foreign Minister. Does Sweden recognise that IS/ Daish has committed genocide in the manner expressed by the Council of Europe and also the Netherlands? Will Sweden take the initiative in the UN Security Council, and will it support the Netherlands, to establish an international tribunal – on its own or with the Netherlands?
i-02a6739951f9341d-344	Madam President, I would like The testimony that reaches us from Daish's ravages in Syria and Iraq is terrible. As Mikael Oscarsson says, the images testify to great suffering and horror. Last week we had a visit from Farida Abbas Khalaf, and she told us about the terrible situation Daish has exposed people to. She grew up in the small village of Kocho in northern Iraq, just south of Sinjarberget. Daish killed both her father and her brother when the organization conquered about a third of Iraq in the summer of 2014. She herself was captured and subjected to sexual slavery, and the same fate has befallen about 500 other Yazidian women. After four months in captivity, she finally escaped, and she has also told us about this in a book. She made it through a refugee camp to Germany, where she still lives. As the interpellant has done, it is worth repeating that Daish has committed and commits gross, systematic and widespread violations of human rights and violations of international humanitarian law in Syria and Iraq. The guilty must be held to account, and we seem to be in favour of this in all the available fora. That is why, together with other EU countries, we have consistently called on the Security Council to refer the situation in Syria to the International Criminal Court. That's where it belongs. We have also called on Iraq to join the Court of Justice. The law on penalties for genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes allows the crimes to be prosecuted in Sweden as well. Terrorism law may also apply to acts committed during an armed conflict. During our time in the UN Security Council, we have therefore worked to ensure that the situation in Syria and Iraq has continued to have a place high on the agenda, and we have been working to investigate violations and abuses of human rights and international humanitarian law. As Mikael Oscarsson knows, the Security Council also recently adopted Resolution 2401 on the cessation of fire in Syria. This resolution came about through Sweden and Kuwait, who have been jointly responsible for the work. The resolution applies to the whole of Syria, and all countries are bound by the Security Council's decisions. However, a good resolution must also be implemented, and results on the ground are what counts. Then there is an international, independent and independent mechanism to assist investigations and prosecutions in Syria. It is usually called Triple IM and has been established by a resolution in 2016. It also plays an important role. This mechanism, under the auspices of the UN and in cooperation with an independent commission of inquiry, is responsible for collecting, compiling, preserving and analysing evidence of abuses and violations of human rights and international humanitarian law. This is being done to speed up and assist in the prosecution of courts that can judge these crimes, and we have been co-sponsors. Today, there is no concrete proposal for a new mechanism or court, nor has it been possible to get such a decision through the Security Council. We shall continue to work for the Netherlands, but the government of the country has not proposed any such thing as was adopted in Parliament. So we are cooperating with the Netherlands and share the basic view of the terrible development and the importance of accountability.
i-02a6739951f9341d-350	Madam President, I would like I would like to make my question more specific. As I said, the Dutch House of Commons adopted this on 22 February – a unanimous resolution calling on the Dutch Government to present a proposal to the UN Security Council to prosecute and punish IS/ Daish warriors. What does the Foreign Minister intend to do? This is, if I understand it correctly, a work that is being prepared. Can the Netherlands count on Sweden's support if it submits this? Sweden could also be a forerunner and make sure to present the proposal before the Dutch initiative comes. I would therefore like to ask for clarification. Do the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Sweden share the view that the UN should take this initiative? How does she see it? It is good that Sweden co-sponsored UN Security Resolution 2379, which was adopted last autumn. It was a step in the right direction, but more steps need to be taken. The work at that time was to support Iraq, and surely the best thing would be to have an international tribunal so that justice does not, as it were, fall entirely within the legal systems of individual countries. We know, Madam President, that after the Second World War, the Nuremberg Tribunal was extremely important, both symbolically and for justice and redress, for all the victims of Nazi atrocities and murders. There were 6 million Jews — and many more. It was extremely important. Now we have a situation where 5 700 have come from Europe. 300 have come from Sweden, and a number have come home to Sweden. It is also a question I would like to take this opportunity to send along, if for a moment we add it: What does it look like in Sweden now? How does Sweden view the state of justice in relation to the Swedish citizens who have fought for IS? What we see otherwise will happen, and as is already happening, is that both in Iraq and Syria there are people and groups who take the law into their own hands. If the IS soldiers are not brought to justice, there are other groups that solve it on their own. That is why it is so important for this to happen, Madam President. If we are to put in what is happening in Syria with al-Asad-Assad and everything we know will be blocked. It's gonna be a veto. Is it not reasonable, then, to take steps to join forces? How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs view the initiative from the Netherlands, and how will Sweden act?
i-02a6739951f9341d-356	Madam President, I would like I understand and feel with Mikael Oscarsson. Reducing suffering in Syria requires us to work on many different fronts at the same time, and there is great frustration that, for example, the last cease-fire resolution is not being implemented. Unfortunately, the bombing continues. It is not only once that we have experienced a Russian veto against important resolutions that we have wanted to adopt in the Security Council, but it has happened eleven times. However, the Dutch Government has not taken any such initiative. The fact is that it is not primarily new mechanisms that are needed, but what is needed is actually to have these cases examined in the ICC. There is a need to use the mechanism already in place to monitor, collect facts and ensure that all the necessary evidence is provided. What is currently lacking to bring about a political solution to this crisis is a political will. However, it is not the case that the Netherlands Government has put forward any proposal to set up a completely new mechanism, because that is not what is needed. It is also important to say that the Swedish Government cannot prosecute Daish warriors, but it is actually the police or prosecutor who decides on it – and also on preliminary investigations. It is important to know that this is what we can do, as our legislation allows, and where that type of investigation and prosecution has already taken place. There's only one prosecutor who can prosecute. We must do everything we can to stop and prosecute members of Daish and other perpetrators of all the heinous crimes committed by Daish in Syria and Iraq. We will work in all available fora to bring those responsible for crimes, abuses and violations in Syria and Iraq to justice. We also support the ongoing political processes, not least with our five-year plan for Iraq. We are also prepared to enter Syria to ensure that there is reconstruction when peace comes. Swedish police and prosecutors continue to prosecute people for genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and terrorist crimes, regardless of who has committed these crimes and where they have been committed. We continue to act humanitarianly. We have already provided more than SEK 3 billion in connection with the Syria crisis since 2011, and this year we decided on an additional SEK 355 million to improve the humanitarian situation in Syria. So it is not so much that we lack the tools or the instruments. We have the ICC, which is the right forum for testing genocide or crimes against humanity. These are important charges. That is what we are going to use, but it is important that we do not get vetoes in the Security Council. Then it is also important that we can refer this type of case to the ICC. We are continuing to work with the Netherlands, which also supports the UN processes in this area. The best thing we can do is to work with as many countries as possible to ensure that it is fully accountable.
i-6TFohTpT8uYG3bA8uDeryT	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs Wallström, for your answer and for your commitment. I would like to ask for clarification. What is it really like – does Sweden recognise that IS has committed genocide, as the Council of Europe and some countries have expressed it? I am thinking of what IS has done to Christians, Yazidians and Muslims who are not Sunni Muslims in order to wipe out these groups. As I have said before, Security Council Resolution 2379 is good, but it was about supporting Iraq. How does the Minister of Foreign Affairs view this? Wouldn't the best be an international tribunal that can bring these IS warriors to justice and get a verdict? Is it the case that Sweden and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, now that we have a seat in the UN Security Council, can present this concrete proposal? My view – and the reason I put this interpellation – is that it could have a decisive impact on getting this international tribunal. It could come about, and the crimes of genocide of the Islamic State would then be brought to justice. This would be very important. IS/ Daish's warriors from Sweden and other countries would then be held accountable and could be condemned for the worst and most abominable violations of international law. It would also mean a restoration for all tens of thousands of victims.
i-02a6739951f9341d-369	Madam President, I would like I share the commitment shown by Mikael Oscarsson. I think he is looking for support in the fact that the Dutch Parliament has adopted a proposal calling for the Dutch Government to present a proposal to the UN Security Council to prosecute and punish IS/ Daish's warriors. However, the Dutch Government has not done this, but it has allowed this to be a motion from Parliament. As I said, it is not primarily a question of our lack of mechanisms. We do indeed have the ICC, which is for this very reason. In addition, national legal systems can also prosecute IS warriors, just as prosecutors in Sweden have. People can be prosecuted for genocide in various places. This is very important. This is where the political will must be mobilized. In this context, the tools available, such as the investigation mechanism to ensure that all the facts and data are provided, must be used to ensure that it is a legal process. The rest is that everything that we can see, and what we comment on, shows all the signs and meets all the criteria for what we normally mean by genocide or crimes against humanity. This is enough to exercise accountability, but it also requires cooperation on it and the use of the instruments already available. We will cooperate with all countries that show a willingness to do so. We owe this to all those who continue to suffer so badly in both Iraq and Syria at the moment. We owe it to all victims of terrible abuse in this part of the world to do all we can to demand responsibility. Thank you for the debate, which is important.
i-02a6739951f9341d-375	Madam President, I would like Maria Stenergard has asked me what measures I intend to take to strengthen the right of Swedish forest owners to use their own land. She has also asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that Swedish forest owners receive fair compensation for financial losses caused by government decisions. I would like to begin by saying that the government has a high level of ambition in terms of its work on biodiversity. The environmental objectives must be achieved, which means, among other things, that nature types and species associated with the forest landscape must have favourable conservation status and sufficient genetic variation. Swedish forestry policy is based on the two equal goals of production and the environment. It is important that forestry measures are carried out in a long-term economically, environmentally and socially sustainable manner. The environmental code applies in parallel with the forestry legislation, as well as the regulations notified under the environmental code, such as the nature protection regulation(2007:845). The provisions also apply to forestry measures. It is the responsibility of the operator to comply with the legislation and the responsibilities of the regulatory authorities to follow up on this. The Environmental Code entered into force on 1 January 1999. The aim of the Environmental Code is to promote sustainable development that enables present and future generations to live in a healthy and good environment. The Species Protection Regulation, which is supported by the Environmental Code, contains both provisions implementing the EU Nature Conservation Directives and purely national provisions. As a member of the EU, Sweden is of course keen to comply with the rules agreed jointly by the EU countries. The nature conservation directives aim, in particular, to create opportunities for species and habitats to achieve and maintain a favourable conservation status and to avoid that measures and activities are liable to impair this status. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency have decided on 21 June 2016 on common guidelines for the management of species protection matters in forestry. The guidelines should support both the Swedish Forest Board and the county administrative boards in dealing with cases where forestry measures concern protected species. The Government considers the guidelines to be an important step in the efforts to protect protected species in the forest. In a letter to the Government, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency have assessed that there is a need to investigate the Species Protection Regulation to ensure that it is applicable, effective and legally secure (M2016/ 01731/ Nm). The authorities note in the letter that the application of the Species Protection Regulation to forestry is delayed. The Government has repeatedly answered questions from the Riksdag about a review of the Species Protection Regulation. The government currently has no other response than that previously announced. The question of whether to carry out a review of the Species Protection Regulation is being addressed in the Government Office. The government is following questions about species protection, but of course I cannot comment on individual matters. In view of what has been said, I do not intend to take any further action at the moment.
i-02a6739951f9341d-384	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. There is every reason to feel hopeful when it comes to the Swedish forest and to the Swedish forest industry. Swedish forestry is efficient, and the forest is growing at the same time as we can harvest more of it. The forest has doubled over the last 100 years, and Sweden is today the world's third largest exporter of paper, pulp and wood products. Thanks to our efficient forestry, forests are also an important player in the fight against climate change. Research even shows that if forest countries such as Russia and Canada had had as effective forestry as Sweden, they could absorb 2 1⁄2 billion tonnes of carbon dioxide. It feels hopeful. From the forest we also get sustainable raw materials. Innovation does not seem to know any boundaries, and we have all seen advertising that the forest can replace plastic and glass in the future. You can even make makeup out of forest! And if we use the forest correctly, it can also play a valuable role in the transformation of the transport sector, for example, biofuels can be extracted from pine oil and lignin. But, Madam President, the image of hope that I and many with me try to paint Swedish forests requires one thing in order to be permanent, namely respect for property rights. It is the ownership of freedom under responsibility that has built up the great values that the forest today represents. The nature that many people now want to protect is a direct result of ownership, and the investments to be made in the forest require predictability, legal certainty and certainty that ownership can be maintained. That is why I am so concerned now that I see ownership being attacked from several sides. Increasingly, forest owners are prevented from felling due to the Species Protection Regulation. The aim is to protect animals and plant species, but the regulatory framework does not work. And I'm not the one who claims it, I'm the heavy government. As early as 2016, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency stated that there are shortcomings that mean that the Swedish Species Protection Regulation is difficult to apply in forestry. The authorities urged the government to investigate the regulation and ensure that it is applicable, effective and legally secure. However, despite the fact that almost two years have passed since that call, nothing has happened, and the uncertainty in forestry is increasing. There may certainly be reason to prevent felling in specific cases in order to protect important natural values, but then compensation should also be paid to the forest owner – because we respect property rights. This is the background to my interpellation, and I have asked two questions. Firstly, what measures does the Minister intend to take to strengthen the right of Swedish forest owners to use their own land? Secondly, what measures does the Minister intend to take to ensure that Swedish forest owners receive fair compensation for financial losses caused by government decisions? None of those questions I think the Minister answered today. I hope she will come back with answers in her next speech. Or should we interpret the lack of answers as that the Minister actually does not want to take any action? What Karolina Skog answers, however, is that nothing has yet happened at the Government Office since a review of the Species Protection Regulation was requested in 2016. I find that remarkable. Unfortunately, this is not the only thing that has been stuck in the Government Office, but it also applies to the forestry law, the national forestry programme and the key biotopes issue, which are being pulled along. It is to the detriment of Swedish forestry.
i-02a6739951f9341d-393	Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council. This interpellation is important, and the issues obviously need to be discussed and clarified. I agree with everything that Maria Stenergard has interceded and said in this debate. The fact that a minister in a Swedish government so floats on the goal of fundamental concepts such as respect for property rights and the fundamental principle that state restrictions on property rights are compensated for by, for example, expropriation and the establishment of nature reserves and the like is astounding. Ownership rights must, of course, also apply to decisions under the Nature Protection Regulation on key biotope, which prohibits the forest owner from felling his inherited or purchased forest in whole or in part. Here's a cow on the ice. A forest owner has been forbidden by state authorities to harvest without compensation. The government should shake with anger but seems very calm. The Government of Skog seems to refer to the considerations that the forest owner must take under the Forest Protection Act and which mean that restrictions and restrictions of a few per cent or so should be tolerated. The Government minimizes the individual cases where forest owners now live under a logging ban without receiving any market remuneration at all. The Government says that they are so few in relation to all the cases where felling is allowed. The argument is astounding. Housing offences are also very few in relation to all the homes where no break-ins are made, but we still want to fight the crimes. Madam President, I would like That a Swedish minister so callously comments on the cases where forest owners are suddenly deprived of the right of access to their forest and forest land without receiving any compensation is incredible, I think. It is therefore also a scandal that the government has long been paralysed on this issue, despite the fact that two authorities have requested that it be urgently investigated in such a way that it is legally secure, that is to say in plain language so that property rights are respected. The Government is hovering on the target if it needs to be clarified at all, if it is a problem at all and if the government will act at all. The only answer of the Minister for the Environment is that the question is being prepared in the Government Office, that it has been prepared for a long time and that it is likely to continue to be prepared for a long time. That is a totally unsatisfactory answer. The Government's response focuses mainly on the environmental objectives, the environmental code applies, the EU's conservation directive on key biotopes and the Species Protection Directive applies and must be followed and guidelines are important for protecting protected species in the forest. The Government's response says nothing – nothing – about what Maria Malmer Stenergard is asking about: what measures the Government intends to take so that Swedish forest owners will receive reasonable compensation for financial losses caused by government decisions. This government's priority to discuss only one aspect and not the other is enormous. It's March 2018. There are elections in September. The only way to get this right is likely to be a new government.
i-02a6739951f9341d-402	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by commenting on figures. This debate refers in part to an earlier debate and previous allegations, which were repeated here, that there has been a major change in the number of decisions with reference to species protection legislation. At that time, I indicated the amounts that have been received – that out of 60 000 logging notifications in 2017, the Swedish Forest Management Board made 178 decisions concerning some form of restriction of felling linked to species protection legislation. It may be a logging decision, but it can also be, for example, that one is not allowed to fell during the breeding period. It's also when and how. It can be considerate. So it is not 178 logging decisions. It was a commentary on whether this is a major problem and whether it is a major change. It was not an answer to the question of how it affects the individual. Of course, any decision can have a major impact on the individual forest owner. There are a number of legal cases in progress concerning the right to compensation. Something is clear, but several are going on. This complicates the political discussion, and I think it is important that we all relate to it. Then I think it is worth recalling that it is a case where they have fallen in recent years that has strengthened the possibility of compensation linked to the definition of on-going land use. I would simply like to question the image that this is a sloping plan and a clear development towards property rights. What I said earlier and now gladly repeat is that how forestry policy relates to ownership rests on a bill from the previous government and a decision made here in Parliament. Me and the government have no intention of changing that. As Maria Malmer Stenergard repeated, we believe that the principle of freedom under responsibility should remain valid. I can see that we agree on that. I therefore find it difficult to comment on the interpretations that suggest that the government intends to make major changes or that some party is pushing for major changes in these parts. I understand that we agree that these principles clearly apply. It is so obvious that one might forget to say so, but ownership is obviously a foundation. I do not see any strong pressure to change this. On the other hand, the application in our courts is changing and we must be able to wait until those judges are ready before we draw political conclusions.
i-02a6739951f9341d-409	Madam President, I would like I should like to start by commenting on what the Minister said about her wanting to question the picture of these issues being on a sloping level. Ask anyone in the Swedish forest industry and the forest industry! There is enormous concern, and we must take it seriously. Then the Minister says that ownership is a foundation. I'm glad. It is important that we send that signal to the industry and to those who are out in the Swedish forest. To be perfectly honest, I don't quite understand where the government stands. In a debate earlier this year, the Minister for the Environment said that the government believes that it would be unreasonable for the state to replace anyone who loses the right to use their land as a result of government decisions. During the Prime Minister's Question Time a little later, I therefore put the question of control to the Prime Minister if he agrees with that view. The Prime Minister then said that he believes it is important that landowners receive compensation but added that he did not know if the Minister for the Environment had any departures on this issue. So there are quite clear ambiguities about the attitude and behaviour of the government here. Of course, it affects those in the industry; I want to be aware of that. On one point, I think the Minister for the Environment is relatively clear in his response. She wants more forest to be excluded from forestry by environmental considerations. This, in my view, has de facto influenced the forestry policy of this government. But forest protection can be done in different ways, for example through formal protection or voluntary provisions. As the Minister points out, Swedish forestry policy is designed according to the principle of freedom under responsibility. We also see that forest owners take great responsibility, among other things by voluntarily making large provisions of sheltered forest. In fact, in terms of the productive forest land, there is a higher proportion of those excluded from forestry and thus protected by voluntary provisions than have formal protection. It is because people take their own responsibility, and we must not forget that. More than 25 per cent of the Swedish forest land is already excluded from forestry, which suggests that the conditions for biodiversity are better than it appears, for example, to be purely formal protection. Then let us not forget that, in addition to environmental objectives, we also have climate targets to relate to. A forest that is not cared for or managed does not grow as well, and it is less effective in taking up carbon dioxide. In addition, the products of the used forest are a prerequisite for replacing fossil materials and fuels. But now we see that in practice we are prepared to confiscate more and more of the forest. The absurdity of this is that those who have been caring for their forests for a long time risk seeing their life-long investments become worthless. Or as the forest owner Ann says: We work environmentally friendly and do everything the state wants; yet they only fight with us. The forest has been so good that they now want it. But it's not us the forest needs protection from. Only a few decades ago, they demanded that it be harvested. Is it really to be left to such an authority? I agree with that. I think you should be careful to fix what's not broken. Nor should the importance of ownership for the creation of important natural values be underestimated.
i-02a6739951f9341d-421	Madam President, I would like Two authorities have thus argued that there is a need to implement the Species Protection Regulation in such a way as to ensure legal certainty. The regulation and key biotopes have been introduced in a few years. The Government says in the response we have received that whether a review should be carried out at all is being prepared – we have been told that for some year. Now the Minister adds: we, that is, the government, have to wait for judgments in the courts before we draw political conclusions. The Government cannot therefore act on this letter as long as there is any appeal before any court. This is not ruling, Minister! It is to be passive and sit and roll your thumbs even though the situation requires action. I call on the Minister for the Environment and the Prime Minister to resolve this important issue as soon as possible so that individuals and entrepreneurs – for that is who we are talking about – are not deprived of their livelihood and deprived of their ownership without compensation. I hope that I will be pleasantly surprised – that this is happening quickly and decisively before the summer and that the result fully respects the ownership rights and the principle of market compensation in government decisions that restrict the right to use their own forests. But, as I said earlier, my confidence in the Government, the Environment Party and the Government is very weak, and I realise that hope will probably have to be placed in the next government, which will take office this autumn.
i-02a6739951f9341d-426	Madam President, I would like An interpellation debate is not always easy when it contains two issues. The comment I just made about waiting for a court decision concerned whether or not the way we apply the compensation rules changes a lot in Sweden. That's the part I commented on. I hope you can respect this and thus conclude that I did not comment on other things at the same time. I have repeatedly stressed the government's self-evident view that ownership is a basis for forestry policy. I'd be happy to repeat it again. I also understand that there is concern, and if, together in this House, we can allay that concern by saying things that are, in fact, self-evident, we shall of course do so over and over again. I would therefore like to thank Maria Stenergard for bringing the discussion to an end so that we can sort things out. I would also like to comment on the fact that the discussion we had on an earlier occasion did not concern decisions taken on the basis of government decisions, but concerned nature conservation measures in the broader sense, including voluntary commitments. It's a bigger discussion. It seems to have spread a misconception in the country about what was said on the last occasion. There was a broader discussion about nature conservation measures in a broad sense. There may be reason to see what the Constitution says and what the Riksdag has decided. There is a general rule that an individual has a constitutional right to compensation, but there is also an exception in Chapter 12. Section 15, third paragraph, the form of government. In the case of restrictions on health protection, environmental protection or safety, the right to compensation is governed by law and is regulated by the Environmental Code. Questions of application have generated a number of judgments. The fact that they are running out of time is a source of concern, and I understand that. Unfortunately, however, I have very little discretion over this as a minister of state. I cannot ask the authorities to act in a certain way. We will have to wait and see and then draw conclusions as to whether the rules need to be changed. But this is embarrassing and it takes time; I understand that. If during that time we can be clear from here that property rights apply and this contributes, that is a good thing.
i-02a6739951f9341d-430	Madam President, I would like For the Moderates, ownership is inviolable. In cases where the State wishes to use privately owned land for example for an infrastructure project or for the conservation of a worthy nature or a protected species, the landowner shall be financially compensated. For the vast majority, this is also a reasonable principle. As the Minister for the Environment points out, the protection in the Constitution is rather weak, and we want to change that. We want property rights to be strengthened and hope that a property rights investigation can be set up. It has serious consequences when property rights are not respected. Individual families run the risk of their lifelong investment becoming worthless, and there is also no evidence of the great social value of investments made by forest owners over time in forestry. The bioeconomy plays a crucial role in the transition to a more sustainable society, but for important actors to dare to invest and invest, legal certainty, long-termism and predictability are required. None of these conditions are currently being met with government policy. It is incredibly important that the work that is now being done at the Government Office should be completed soon and that property rights should be strengthened from that work. I would like to thank you for the debate, and I very much hope that the Government Office will soon land with the internal discussions.
i-02a6739951f9341d-435	Madam President, I would like In my last speech, I would like to give a few words about formal protection. We on Sweden's side have international commitments regarding how we should work and strengthen the formal protection of nature. In addition, the Riksdag has decided that we in Sweden should have even higher targets. I see it as an obvious task for a government to ensure that those objectives are met. This is a task that Parliament has given. As far as nature conservation is concerned, we have several instruments. Formal protection, that is, national parks and nature reserves, is one such thing. When we establish nature reserves and national parks, there is a clear framework for compensation. We in the government have made sure that we have enough money to be able to pay compensation in all these cases. When you say that there should be compensation, it is important that you are aware that that money must be in the government budget. That is why I am surprised that the opposition is saying that compensation is important and, at the same time, it is cutting those particular budget lines. It is also worth pointing out that my quotation about the established policy on the part of the Riksdag is based on a bill from a bourgeois government. It does not stop you going to elections to change it, but it is a relevant history writing to have with you. With this, I would like to thank you for today's debate.
i-02a6739951f9341d-440	Madam President, I would like Erik Bengtzboe has asked Minister Tomas Eneroth about the government's future position regarding the environmental code test of Ostlänken's route at Skavsta airport and Nyköping. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The Finnish Transport Agency has applied to the Government on 10 November 2015 for admissibility under Chapter 17. The environmental code for the construction of the Ostlink in Södertälje, Trosa, Nyköpings, Norrköping and Linköping municipalities. The basis for the government's investigation is a railway investigation and the related environmental impact assessment. Trafikverket has studied various corridors for the extension and made suggestions for station locations along the route. During the examination of the Swedish Transport Administration's application, the Ministry of the Environment and Energy assessed that the information needed to be supplemented and therefore requested the Swedish Transport Administration to complete its application on six points on 20 April 2017. The requested additions came to the Government Office on 31 January 2018. The additions show, among other things, that Trafikverket is now recommending a new stretch of the subway past Nyköping and a new station location for Skavsta airport. The review of the East Link is a matter of priority for the government, but as a minister I cannot and must not anticipate the future decisions of the government. However, I can assure Erik Bengtzboe that the government will examine the evidence and the arguments put forward carefully before the government takes a decision on the matter.
i-02a6739951f9341d-442	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Minister Skog, for your answer. The cheese link as a project is of tremendous importance in order to continue to develop Swedish competitiveness in the future. It is of course very important for Sörmland and Östergötland, but this also needs to be placed in a much larger context than that. It is by expanding Ostlinken to Linköping while making investments in Mälarbanan and extending traffic towards Uppsala that we get the opportunity to build together the entire Mälardal region and make sure that we can make better use of the growth engine that Mälardalen and Stockholm actually form in Sweden. This enables people to live and live and use the housing stock in a significantly better way while working and enjoying a common labour market. This enables faster travel for people while strengthening redundancy in the system. Thus we can ensure that we avoid the kind of problems that very many train passengers unfortunately experienced north of Stockholm today when the train system simply failed because there was not enough wide capacity. However, this whole project must also be seen in a considerably larger perspective, where it is not only about connecting the region but also about connecting the traffic law in such a way that we actually use the traffic opportunities we have by road, by train, by air and by boat in the best possible way. It is about really being able to ensure that with the least possible climate impact we use the resources we have in the best possible way. After a very long and arduous process, in which the Swedish Transport Administration has been a positive and constructive party, this is exactly what the Government describes, Madam President. The Government has requested additional information from the Finnish Transport Administration. After that, Trafikverket has returned, and it is now recommending a completely new route for the train tracks through Nyköping municipality and regarding the connection to Skavsta airport, which is located in southeastern Sörmland. Skavsta airport is today Sweden's third largest international airport, but it has an isolated location. It is in itself good accessibility to the E4, but it is poor accessibility to public transport. It is a stated goal and project that the Swedish Transport Administration has had and which has previously been a priority in Swedish work with infrastructure: to connect the traffic law in the most efficient way possible. In the proposal that the Finnish Transport Administration has now put forward, it is not just a matter of creating an enormous amount of additional work and choosing to take a path that is not anchored with the municipalities and regions concerned. It also chooses to locate the station location of Skavsta Airport to a subway to be operated with regional traffic. This is done instead of placing the station position on the national main rail line, where it would be possible to use and connect the modes of transport. I know it's complicated and big processes. I also know that these are processes that are currently on the government's table and that are to be considered. Nevertheless, there are two important issues that need to be discussed. One question is: when does the government see that it will be able to land in some form of decision? This allows landowners, residents, entrepreneurs and municipalities to know what to expect. Then they can start planning their business. They may have lived with considerable anxiety for many years. The second question concerns something that it is also highly relevant to find out: How do the government and the Swedish Transport Administration really think about the old doctrine of trying to connect the traffic law to use it as efficiently as possible? Now the Swedish Transport Administration has obviously chosen to take a completely different course in this matter.
i-02a6739951f9341d-452	Madam President, I would like I must begin by saying that I am delighted to hear from a moderate Member this commitment to investment in new Swedish railways. Redundance is sweet music in my ears. We need more reliability, and that requires investment. When we make such large investments, it goes without saying that we are looking at regional effects as well as effects on long-distance trains. And it will lead to a better bonding of different modes of transport, because it is with the combined effects that you get the really great social benefit. I can say this in an overall way. I would also like to say, most of all to be clear to potential audiences, that the government's handling of issues relating to this type of new investment takes place in two parts. What is on my table, as Minister for the Environment, is the environmental test. It's a formal examination. That is why I must be terribly boring and say that I cannot comment on when we will be done or how we look at the basis. Then it is the investment decision, which is taken in what is called the national plan. There are more of the traffic views. But from Trafikverket it is obviously a coherent work where they weigh everything together to get the best possible application. I can say that, overall, I agree with the arguments put forward. What it means, which solution is actually the best on the ground, I cannot comment today.
i-02a6739951f9341d-457	Madam President and the Council of Ministers. I understand that, when it is an ongoing decision-making process concerning an environmental review in the government, it is not possible to provide information on individual cases. But the interpellation I have written does not primarily concern the whole project and how one sees the balance between tying up the traffic law and that the Swedish Transport Administration now chooses to make a departure from it. It is the government that has chosen that Minister Skog and not Minister Eneroth should respond to this. I need to ask my questions, whoever it is the government chooses to send as its representative. Although the Government cannot comment on the individual case, the Government can comment on how it views the basic principles. Previously, it has been said that a basic principle for using the modes of transport in the most efficient way possible is that they connect the different modes of transport. This is still argued by the Swedish Transport Administration too generally – it is not only linked to this project, but generally. But this particular project chooses to act in a different way. Therefore, the question arises: What does the government think, which nevertheless leads and is responsible for the Finnish Transport Administration's activities? Is it still a priority to tie up the traffic law? Or is it thought that there are other questions, and in such cases, which should be consulted on these kinds of issues? There is a broad problem, Madam President, which is linked to this issue on a larger scale. It is the government's flatness in managing airport planning in Sweden. In the planned plan there are very limited thinking paths for how Swedish flights will develop in the future. The current government has chosen to put a lot of energy into discussing whether Bromma airport in Stockholm should remain or not. However, when it comes to the long-term planning of how Swedish airports and air travel should be handled, the long-term strategy shines with its absence. In the documents produced, Skavsta airport, although the third largest international airport, is also absent. Madam President, I would like The government has unfortunately chosen to make Swedavia responsible for this planning on an overall level. Swedavia is the person responsible for this planning, but Swedavia is also a direct competitor of Skavsta Airport as the owner of the other airports around. It has nevertheless been given planning responsibility for all air traffic in Sweden in the future. The questions also remain on a more principled level. We can take it down to something that the Government can answer without going into the matter. Then we can land on two issues.
i-02a6739951f9341d-464	Madam President, I would like The Government's priorities for infrastructure and their bearings on the development of the transport sector in Sweden have been set out in an infrastructure bill. It identifies as an important principle the principle that is called for, that of tying together the different modes of transport. I do not see any major differences in the way previous governments have handled those parts. There are obvious social gains in connecting different modes of transport. The whole-travel perspective should be an important principle. It is the traveller who should be in the center. The whole journey is an important principle to have with you when assessing whether it works well or not. That is also one of the reasons for what was raised here. Redundance is important in our systems. It is also an important reason why we have identified a great need for new investment. I would like to comment on the various cases. All three draws contain a possible station at Skavsta Airport. I just want to make it clear that there is no proposal that lacks that part. We cannot therefore take a position on anything other than a proposal that contains a possible stati on at Skavsta airport. As far as aviation is concerned, the government has presented a flight strategy. It is a comprehensive document in which we point out that more concrete steps are needed. Of course, one should have a direction forward for the development of aviation. We take a special hold of Arlanda through the Arlanda Council. We also have active work led by the Minister for Infrastructure in terms of aviation for the whole of Sweden. It is and will be an important mode of transport for Sweden.
i-02a6739951f9341d-469	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. Nevertheless, I am still obliged to try to submit the interpellation once again and get the responsible Minister for Infrastructure here to have a continued discussion on airport planning and how to think with the capacities there. As I said before, the government has chosen to put a great deal of energy into whether or not Bromma airport should be left behind. Now you choose in the airport strategy you have assumed to put a lot of energy into prioritising Arlanda. Arlanda is extremely important not only for the Stockholm region but for the entire Mälardal region and Sweden as a hub. But Arlanda will never be able to carry that capacity alone, but other alternatives are needed. That is why the broader picture of the aviation strategy is so important. This is also why it is worrying that it is Swedavia – which is a major player and owns and operates its own airports, a state-owned but still an actor – who has had to take such a great responsibility in formulating it. There are private operators who operate airports without consuming tax money in this way and who also deserve to be part of the planning process. Unfortunately, I am afraid that the government here has to some extent missed Skavsta. If you read the flight strategy, you can see that Skavsta and its strategic value are missing. Then I would like to make a final contribution to the Government, which certainly cannot anticipate decisions in the Government, but which is undoubtedly part of making those decisions. It is clear that if you have the vision of connecting the traffic teams for the entire Mälardalen valley, it plays a huge role in which of the railway alternatives the airport station at Skavsta is located. If it is placed on a national main rail or a regional rail line, it is clear that it affects the extent to which it can be used.
i-02a6739951f9341d-476	Madam President, I would like This discussion is about the East Link. I would like to reiterate that I am very pleased with the commitment that exists for the East Link. It is a very important project that is highly prioritised by the government. We are putting a lot of effort into making a decision in which we manage to reconcile the regional aspects with the national ones so that we get an investment that provides as many social benefits as possible.
i-02a6739951f9341d-477	Madam President, I would like Christian Holm Barenfeld has asked me if I think it is reasonable to introduce requirements for teacher identification for all teachers, including those who have a foreign degree and for a few years are in Sweden and working. Mr Barenfeld has also asked me whether I believe that education at upper secondary level should not be largely available in English and how I intend to ensure that the IB programme should also continue to be attractive and a functioning part of the upper secondary programme offering in Sweden. In the report English-language teaching, the National Board of Education has mapped and evaluated English-language teaching in Swedish upper secondary school. The report and the assessments made thus include Swedish upper secondary school and not the international education an International Baccalaureate, IB. The number of young people in Sweden who choose an IB education has been at about the same level in recent years. IB is an important complement to the national programmes in Swedish upper secondary school. According to the Swedish Agency for Education's report, English-language teaching occurs in some fifty upper secondary schools in Sweden. The scope varies from single lessons to full-time English. The Authority notes that it does not have a basis for drawing conclusions on the effects of English-language teaching, but that there are research results that suggest that it is not entirely positive. Case studies referred to by the Swedish National Agency for Education show that students with Swedish as their native language learn subject knowledge best through teaching in Swedish. The Swedish National Agency for Education also notes that English-language teaching in upper secondary school is unregulated. For comprehensive school, it is now regulated that the majority of the teaching may be organised in English for pupils who are staying in Sweden for a limited period of time and have sufficient knowledge of English to be able to participate in the teaching. If schools want to organise parts of their teaching in English for other pupils, they need to apply for permission from the State School Inspection. In this case, there is a limitation that no more than half of the teaching may be given in English. The Authority states that some regulation could also be considered for upper secondary school. It is important that students receive good language and knowledge development in upper secondary school and that they develop in both Swedish, English and other languages. Being able to study other subjects in English in upper secondary school is one way to improve English knowledge and thus prepare for future studies or working life, but it must be done in a way that does not adversely affect subject knowledge or Swedish knowledge. Swedish school will contribute to the development of the Swedish language, and at the same time English is very important in a globalised world. Education in Sweden at upper secondary level should reflect these complex needs. With its report, the Swedish National Agency for Education contributes with an important survey and an evaluation of English language teaching in Swedish upper secondary school. It is a report that we carry with us in the continued work of creating an equal school with a focus on knowledge and education. In terms of teacher ID, teachers with a foreign degree are today exempted from the requirement of Swedish teacher ID if they are to teach in English on subjects other than language subjects. The Swedish National Agency for Education proposes to remove this exception in the long term. Teacher identification and subject eligibility are important for the quality of Swedish school. However, there is a great shortage of teachers, and in view of this, it is good if there are English-speaking teachers with good teacher training from other countries. I therefore do not think it is important to work towards the removal of this derogation at present.
i-02a6739951f9341d-484	Madam President, I would like I wrote this interpellation for a reason. Thank you, Anna Ekström, for your answer! The reason I wrote the interpellation was that the government, as I understand, has commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to look at the teaching that takes place in English, in whole or in part. I have previously stood here in the speaker's chair and debated with Minister Helene Hellmark Knutsson about the IB courses, which have had to be ironed in the past. Sweden devalues this education, which makes it relatively difficult for students attending IB to enter schools and universities in Sweden. It is, of course, boring for all the students who are affected. It is also serious for Sweden and Swedish competitiveness, because through this we risk sending out competent, highly educated young people from Sweden who choose to study at other universities, as it is easier to enter international top universities than at lower ranked universities and universities in Sweden. This does not take up this investigation, but it will also be the overall approach to education in Sweden at Swedish universities and schools that take place in languages other than Swedish, then not least English, that can iron on the foot. I think it is serious because, in a more globalised world, we need people who speak more languages than Swedish. This applies not only to English, but also to other world languages such as German, French, Spanish and other languages that are important for the relationships that we need to have commercially and professionally. My question was whether it was reasonable to introduce requirements for teacher identification for all teachers, including teachers who have a foreign degree and who are working in Sweden for a few years. We are already seeing problems there today. The large group English School has a lot of teachers who are here for a few years, which is the time it takes to get a Swedish teacher's ID. It is good that the Government announces that due to the lack of teachers at present, the exemption for this requirement should be removed. I don't want it to be a lack of teachers, but I hope we get more teachers. However, I hope that does not mean that we will not have international teachers, because that would mean that we would not have so many guest teachers. Given how criticized the Swedish teacher education is, we are likely to get teachers who are trained in countries where you may have less criticized teacher education and who have a competence. In some way, we must ensure that those who come from a good educational environment and are good teachers can actually teach in Sweden from the first day without having to attend a long education with many steps that take several years to get a teacher's ID. In essence, the question remains: How should we ensure that teachers can come to Sweden from other countries to be involved in contributing in the shorter or longer term in the Swedish school?
i-02a6739951f9341d-491	Madam President, I would like Christian Barenfeld referred to IB training. I can only agree that IB is an appreciated form of education that plays an important role in the Swedish upper secondary school. I can also note that in the evaluation carried out by the Higher Education Council, after the Council had reviewed the new upper secondary school reform Gy 2011 and adapted the rules for admission to higher education according to the new forms of education available after Gy 2011, there was a strong concern that pupils from IB upper secondary school would be disadvantaged. We want, of course, that admission to higher education should be fair and reflect the knowledge and skills that students bring with them from upper secondary school, regardless of what form of upper secondary school the student has attended. We do not want students from IB upper secondary school to be disadvantaged in relation to pupils from other upper secondary schools in Sweden, but we do not want them to benefit either. The evaluation carried out by the Swedish Council for Higher Education shows that the great fears that existed have not really been realised. We do not see any great injustice for IB students in the evaluation that has been made. However, I am anxious that this is something that we should follow together. In fact, it is important for Swedish university education that admission rules are fair and neither disadvantage nor benefit pupils from different forms of education. I will of course follow the development and regular reports from the Swedish Council for Higher Education. Christian Holm Barenfeld also draws a lance so that we in Sweden will be open for teachers who come from abroad to be able to do good and also contribute in the Swedish school. Here, too, I fully agree with him. We should be happy about every teacher who wants to come to Sweden and contribute their knowledge and competence. But we will also realise that for many teachers there will be a need for some form of introduction and education to the Swedish school. It is also the case that for the teacher who will work in the Swedish school with grading and interpretation of policy documents and of the school law with its various regulations, there will be a need, just like today, for rapid, effective and accessible education that will allow you to quickly enter as a teacher. This is particularly important now that we have a large influx of new arrivals into Swedish society, of which a not disdainful proportion is actually teachers from other countries. I do not currently see any need for changes in the rules on the exemption for teachers who come from abroad and who, in this case, know good English. But I see a great need for continued rapid, simple and effective education to ensure that the teachers who come to Sweden can do good in Sweden and in Swedish school and be welcome to the Swedish school.
i-02a6739951f9341d-497	Madam President, I would like I'll try to separate my questions about IB education from the others. As far as IB education is concerned, it is clear that it is important that we ensure that we have competence. At the same time, I wonder whether it is reasonable for Sweden to underestimate the results of IB education in relation to the rest of the world. We also differ from our neighbours Norway, Finland and other Nordic countries. It is therefore not far away that countries have completely different conditions, but here we have an international education with international standards. Then it should be reasonable for us to validate it in the same way as we do in other countries. When it comes to English language education, teachers and teacher IDs, we will have good teachers who are trained in the Swedish teacher education, but we will also have good teachers who come here. I make it easy for myself and take English school as an example based on the fact that it is the large educational group that has English education. They have many teachers who come here from other, English-speaking countries with a good education. Often these are three or four years old, and we know that it takes years to get a teacher's ID. In many cases teachers are trained and have previously taught at top schools. Today, they are not classified as qualified teachers because they do not have a teacher's ID. Is this reasonable or is it a problem? The students at English school have no less knowledge. It's a school growing. In my municipality of residence Karlstad it is the largest comprehensive school, and they also have upper secondary schools. Of course, all schools must be reviewed and comply with the quality requirements. But it is reasonable and should basically be desirable that more and more Swedish students learn more languages than I did when I went to school and learned my school English and that they read many subjects and become really good in the English language. We can look at the evaluations of the schools. We can also look at the government's previous occupation; she spoke very positively about this. Then, perhaps, it has become a little more ideologically debated since she became a government minister. Very many of these schools are run in what is commonly called the welfare sector. In many situations, it has become a two-front war. There will be both limitations in the English language and limitations in the form of how they are operated. In this situation, these trainings are exposed in many ways. I think it would be good if we could ensure that we will continue to have courses in English, perhaps even to a greater extent. Teachers who teach there are welcome to come from other countries. Of course, their teaching should be of good quality. But when they are already highly educated, it becomes a little strange that they should not be qualified just because they do not undergo a long education to get a Swedish teacher's ID.
i-02a6739951f9341d-504	Madam President, I would like Christian Holm Barenfeld asks if it is reasonable for Sweden to devalue the IB courses in the admission system. No, it doesn't make sense. But we have our own admission system. I would argue that the claim made by Christian Holm Barenfeld is not true. The admission system is a system that we have done for our Swedish conditions, for what is needed to be able to study at Swedish universities. It is about taking into account the knowledge of students applying to Swedish universities and colleges. I have great confidence in the University and Higher Education Council's great work in constantly evaluating and monitoring developments so that the admission system in its details can be as fair as possible. It is not least important if we want Swedish universities to have students – former students – who are really good and really pass their programmes. But it is also very important for all students in Sweden to feel that it is worth fighting and working in upper secondary school to get the grades required to get into a dream education. That is why it is so important that the grading system is fair, also from the pupils' point of view. Then Christian Holm asks Barenfeld if there is – at least I interpret the question as having a concern about it – a hidden motive: to eventually prevent English-speaking teachers coming here and teaching in English. That is certainly not the case. I am very happy about all the teachers who come to Sweden and contribute to Swedish school. If English teachers come here and teach in English, it is excellent. Christian Holm Barenfeld also talks about the importance of teaching in English in the Swedish school. Sure, there are advantages. These advantages are, above all, the fact that students get a good English with them. However, as shown in the Swedish National Agency for Education's report, there are also extensive knowledge reviews showing that there are disadvantages in teaching students in a language other than their mother tongue, especially as regards the development of knowledge in the various subjects in which they are taught. You lose important nuances. It is also the case that teaching Swedish can suffer, which is very important, because Swedish is our mother tongue. I think that even after reading the Swedish National Agency for Education's report, one should continue to be careful to keep an eye on this teaching in English. I definitely don't want to close the door and don't want to reduce it in the Swedish school, but I think we should continue to follow how students' knowledge development changes over time. English is important, but I would like to remind you that there are many other languages that are also important in the globalised world in which we live and in the Europe in which we live. My heart beats for French and German, but that also applies to Spanish – it is about a large number of modern languages. This is extremely important for students to have with them in their lives, not only in further studies but also in working life. Christian Holm Barenfeld referred to the International English School. It is true that there is a large school group in Sweden where you have the habit of teaching a lot in English. It is also true that the school group has received a large number of English-speaking teachers. I think that is a very positive part of the Swedish school. I welcome all the teachers who come here. A statement was recently given that it takes several years to obtain a Swedish teacher's ID. I can take this opportunity to assure Christian Holm Barenfeld that this is not the case anymore. We will ensure that anyone who comes here with a foreign teacher's degree enters Swedish school with a licence as soon as possible.
i-02a6739951f9341d-512	Madam President, I would like Thank you for those answers and clarifications. I was a little scared when I read the last sentence of the written interpellation response I received: 中 The reason given was lack of teachers. I do not think we should base this on a lack of teachers. If we want good quality, it must be that we want people to come here and be teachers precisely because they are good teachers. Although we have plenty of teachers in Sweden, we should of course be open to teachers who come and contribute with other languages. I also share the view that it is not only about English but also about other important languages, such as German and French. The Minister's heart burns a little extra for the French, which I can't at all. I'm more passionate about the German language. In our neighborhood, however, most people at least speak some kind of English. The hope is that Swedish children and young people will be better and better in English as well. Therefore, I think it is reasonable for IB education – we can start with it – to be valued in the same way in Sweden as in the rest of the world. This applies not least to our neighbourhood. There may be nuances, but that Sweden would have a special character I am not really in on. Whether it is municipal schools or schools belonging to a large school group such as the International English School, I think it is important that teachers can come here temporarily, be approved teachers and contribute to the education of our children and young people, both in languages and in other subjects. The training must of course be available in English, Swedish or other languages. Thank you for the debate.
i-02a6739951f9341d-517	Madam President, I would like I thank Christian Barenfeld for a pleasant debate, which is based on very good questions. Andreas Schleicher, who is the OECD's head of the PISA surveys, once said at a conference that no school system will ever perform better than the conditions for teachers who teach the school system. If we are to raise Swedish students' knowledge, the availability of well-trained, skilled and experienced teachers is a completely invaluable prerequisite. Today in Sweden we have a terrible shortage of teachers, and we have a great need to recruit more people into the teaching profession. I welcome foreign teachers to Sweden – not because there is a shortage, but because we need all the teachers who want to do good in Swedish school. I am personally convinced that there are very good teacher training courses in other countries. But I am also convinced that we in Sweden have a very strong and professional teaching staff. We should be very careful to have great faith and trust in the teachers who are in the Swedish school system. All talk about the fact that the Swedish teacher education has fallen in some way, of course, risks being perceived as that teachers who come from other countries would be preferable to teachers who are trained in the Swedish teacher education. We should be grateful and happy about all the teachers who come here, but we should be equally grateful and happy about all the teachers who work in the Swedish school. We are really going to do everything we can to make more people want to become teachers, so that more teachers will want to stay in the profession, so that more teachers will come here from other countries and that more teachers who have left the teaching profession will be able to come back to the Swedish school. Without good teachers, we don't get good school results.
i-02a6739951f9341d-522	Madam President, I would like Johan Forssell has asked me what initiatives, in addition to those already presented by the government, I intend to take to improve the conditions for skills provision from other countries and labour migration to Sweden. Initially, I would like to say that I share the view that it is crucial for Swedish competitiveness that companies can recruit employees with the right skills. In order for Swedish companies to manage their skills supply, it must therefore be possible for Swedish employers to employ workers from third countries, as the skills sought cannot be found in Sweden. That possibility exists today. Johan Forssell tries to suggest that today's rules, which were introduced by the previous bourgeois government, mean that international competence cannot and will not come to Sweden to work. That is simply not true. The number of highly qualified labour immigrants in occupations where there is a shortage of the Swedish labour market has risen continuously in recent years. The IT specialists from third countries have almost doubled since 2009. IT architects, computer specialists and system developers are now the single largest group of labour immigrants to Sweden. This is a positive development. Existing rules also enable highly educated people in particular to find a job in Sweden. Students who have completed their university studies in Sweden can stay in the country for up to six months to find a job or explore opportunities to conduct business. The Government Office is currently preparing proposals on how to implement the Student and Research Directive in Swedish law. Among other things, the directive allows for an extension of these so-called job seeker permits. It also opens up for third-country nationals who have completed a Swedish or European doctoral programme to stay in Sweden for the purpose of seeking a job or starting a business, which is not possible today. In summary, existing labour immigration systems offer good opportunities to recruit international skills. The measures implemented and planned that have just been mentioned are expected to further improve employers' access to requested knowledge, whether in third countries or in Sweden.
i-02a6739951f9341d-529	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I have put this interpellation about an important area that is not really something new in Swedish history. We have had labour immigration in Sweden for several decades. In fact, our country is in many ways a product of people coming to Sweden – Finns, Yugoslavians, Greeks and many others – working here and contributing to the good of us all. The then alliance government opened up Sweden to more labour migration. It was an important reform that had many advantages. Over time, however, from 2015, there were a number of problems with the legislation that existed, and we see a lot of these factors today. We have a situation where seven out of ten Swedish companies say that they want to grow and develop but are prevented due to a shortage of labour. Arbetsförmedlingen also shows that there is a widespread shortage of labour, and the World Bank says that although the Swedish business environment generally has many advantages, in international comparison, we in Sweden today are worse at attracting foreign talent. When seven out of ten Swedish companies say that they want to grow but are prevented because of the lack of competence, when countless organisations testify that this is a big and growing problem today and when coveted, often highly educated, employees are expelled from Sweden due to almost trivial things, the government's answer is that most of it is good as it is. However, putting an end to the displays of competence is actually only a hygiene factor. I believe that we must take steps to make it more attractive for people to come here to Sweden in the long term, to work and pay taxes – for their own good but also for the good of the whole of Sweden. Therefore, we Moderates have presented a comprehensive action programme on how we want to make it more attractive for foreign talents to come to Sweden and work, including through the introduction of special talent visas for highly skilled workers. We Moderates believe that this is a prerequisite for Sweden to succeed in global competition. Madam President, I would like Having listened to the answer, I find it somewhat worrying that the government does not really seem to take this issue seriously. No other conclusion can be drawn from the answer. What is explicitly said is actually that it is good as it is. But there is a completely different description of how the labour market and international recruitments to Sweden work, if you believe the many companies that work with this. Many of them today have people who are threatened with deportation because of minor errors. With regard to my question, which is about the future, and the answer that has come to it, I have to say that I think it is a little weak that the only thing that is mentioned – the only thing that the government has to present – is a directive that has come from the European Union. Where are the government's own proposals on labour migration? It is not enough simply to say that you want a good business climate. As I have pointed out to the Minister for Migration on a number of occasions: saying one thing is not enough, it is about what you do. There I was disappointed by the answer I received. I hope that the government can take on board the many proposals that we Moderates have put forward in this area in terms of how Sweden will succeed in attracting more foreign talents.
i-02a6739951f9341d-538	Madam President, I would like Labour migration and skills provision are important for the Swedish government and are of course important for Swedish industry and the social partners. It is gratifying that it is also important for the parties in the Riksdag. Nevertheless, I think it is important to have a history description to understand where we are today. In 2008, the bourgeois government changed the conditions by removing the labour market test. Just before the 2014 elections, you came in the then bourgeois government with the proposal to change the rules so that abuse can be better addressed and residence permits withdrawn. After that, there was a debate about the rules being well square. One could hear names like the one that Johan Forssell used just now, so-called competence demonstrations. This is the reason why the government has taken a number of measures over these years to strengthen the conditions for good labour migration. Johan Forssell is very aware of this. As recently as last autumn, such a proposal was adopted here in the Swedish parliament, which gives you the opportunity to make so-called self-corrections if you do not live up to the terms and conditions of the employer. We also have an investigation that has presented its proposal that we should be able to correct minor mistakes after the Migration Board has pointed them out. In addition, there have been a number of judgments that lead the issue in a direction that will rather make global assessments. Despite the claims made by Johan Forssell, it is important and also gratifying for me to be able to report a positive development, for example, to the group we talk about a lot: IT architects, computer specialists and system developers, i.e. highly qualified, competent personnel from third countries. There we have a development since 2009 where we have almost doubled the number of permits granted, from 2 202 to 4 029. In another area we have halved the number. It's about berry pickers. There has also been a rather critical discussion about how to live up to the conditions of the labour market. We note that this sector has been more than halved in recent years. So we have a development where we have one of Europe's most generous labour immigration systems, where we can also secure the good conditions of the labour market for those who come here and work in Swedish workplaces. There is every reason to highlight this as a very important tool for our companies to recruit the right skills in their workforce and also to be able to recruit from other countries.
i-02a6739951f9341d-545	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by giving the Minister for Migration the right to one point, and that is that it was the Alliance that opened up Sweden to labour immigration through the reform that we made during the first term of office. It was important, but it was not applauded by the Social Democrats at the time. I think it has been very positive for Sweden as a country. We are a small player out in a large market, and we are dependent on there being people who want to come to Sweden and work. We have an increasingly specialised economy today, and people are not interchangeable cogs. It is often about key people, experts and talents. They should of course, if they want to, be in Sweden and meet with a welcoming attitude and simple and predictable regulations, not with nine months of processing times and a daily life where you are expelled on, as I have said, almost trivial bases. Sometimes when I have looked at these issues – I have followed them for a number of years – I wonder if the best way to succeed in being expelled from Sweden is to be highly educated and coveted IT programmers. Then the law is hard. Then you'll be expelled, and then you'll be expelled. On the other hand, a large number of other people – sometimes those who actually commit crimes – are not expelled. But right here, when it comes to labour immigrants, the law is tough. I think that shows how strange the migration policy we have today is in fact. The Alliance has been pushing the government on this issue during this term of office. We have not only had one, not just two, but I think three announcements to get the government to start addressing these issues. It took a very long time, you might say. We started with this already in the summer of 2015. At the time, the government did not want to listen, but was in the process of tackling cheating and exploitation, as one might say, has been the more traditional attitude of Social Democracy – unfortunately – to labour immigration. It's there too. We are not naive about this. We see that all rules can be abused, and no one wants it. But we must also at some point start talking about the potential of this and how we can get more foreign talents and experts to go to Sweden. The picture given here by the Minister for Migration is that everything works exactly as it should. I don't really hear anything about anything having to evolve or change. I put this picture next to it that our recruiters, large companies and even smaller companies in a wide range of industries, not only in Stockholm but really throughout the country, provide. They tell me about the problems they face – a rigid regulatory framework, long processing times and threats of expulsion due to minor errors in a tight regulatory framework. It is a completely different picture of reality from that of the Minister for Migration. At least I know who I believe in most. Here we Moderates have said that it is now high time that we took a step forward and that we are not just content to be a mediocre. We're gonna be the best in this. We are proposing precisely the talent visa for highly qualified foreign workers. We say that it should be a 30-day guarantee for work permits when a correctly completed application is made. There's a long line of things. Of course, we also need lower taxes on labour. And we must make it more beneficial for foreign experts to come to Sweden and work. We need to use our foreign missions in a different way today, so that they market Sweden. We are not going to market Sweden because there are high child benefits here. We will promote Sweden because it is a fantastic country to come and work in and where you can develop and realize your ideas. That is a long line of things in a coherent strategy that we have put on the table and presented. It would be desirable for the government, instead of denying the problems that we are seeing today, to actually take on board this.
i-02a6739951f9341d-552	Madam President, I would like I must say, however, that I think the interpeller has a somewhat high tailings when he claims that we have extensive expulsions of highly skilled workers. I can understand whether Johan Forssell from the Moderates and I from the Government have a slightly different view of what the labour market conditions should look like and how important it is that we ensure that we do not use labour from third countries. But I find it very difficult to understand that you are trying to describe problems in a way that is actually not correct. Let me take this opportunity to say something about this group of highly skilled workers, who are often cyber-workers. Of those who apply for the first time, 99 per cent receive a positive response and are allowed to work in Sweden. Of those seeking the second time – that is, an extension – the figure is 96%. Then it will be a bit tricky to hear Johan Forssell say that most people do not get the opportunity to work in Sweden because they do not get their application for a residence permit for work granted. I still think you should talk about things the way they are. In the case of highly skilled workers, such as IT graduates, we have almost doubled the number of applications granted since 2009. However, in other and rightly criticised sectors – the berry picker industry – the number of applications and the number of applications granted have halved. Perhaps the debate will lead too far. But it would be interesting to know what the Moderates mean by a talent visa. Talent is a fairly broad concept. However, visas are a very specific concept. Visas issued in this way are, for the Swedish part, based on EU legislation. I assume that what Johan Forssell really means is a residence permit. Then, as you know, we have different rules depending on whether you come here as a labour force or whether you come here to start and run a business as an entrepreneur. If you come here as a labour force, it is extremely important for the government that we can ensure that there are good conditions that apply and that are comparable to the conditions that we have in the Swedish labour market. The government has corrected the shortcomings that existed in the legislation that I have described and which the bourgeois government drew up. We will now get to grips with this. In addition, we have work on the Student and Research Directive. We are investing in more information. There will now be a web portal with information about the Swedish labour market. It is transparent and accessible and can be used during the application procedure. We have the certification system, which has increased significantly in 2017 and which makes it easier for companies to enter and obtain this authorisation. Already for this year we have 55 employers who have been certified. We have assignments to the Migration Agency regarding shorter processing times and better information. And we invest in education to cope with skills development and recruitment issues in the future. There is therefore a lot of work going on to ensure that Sweden and Swedish companies are competitive when it comes to recruiting highly qualified workers.
i-02a6739951f9341d-561	Madam President, I would like As far as history is concerned, the Minister for Migration may miss out on the small detail that the Social Democrats voted in favour of this legislation. If I am not mistaken, the main criticism that came from the party of the Minister for Migration was that it did not go far enough. I would therefore urge the Minister to be a little careful about criticising other parties for this. You actually voted in favour of this legislation. It is obvious that we have completely different reality images here. I respect the Minister's opinion. But I have to say that I listen more to the companies and organisations that work with this daily. They describe a completely different system from that described by the Minister in such positive terms. I almost wonder if the Minister for Migration has completely missed the many articles that have been where high-level business representatives have gone out and said: this is not working. We lose top talents who want to be in Sweden and work for their own sake and for the sake of the whole of Sweden but who are expelled and who do not even go to Sweden because of the regulations. I would very much urge the Minister to try to take this on board, because after receiving this answer and having had this debate, I wonder whether that knowledge has really fallen into the hands of the government. I think the big difference here really is the level of ambition to be achieved. You can have the posture where you say: Okay, maybe it works decent today– there are no major disasters, perhaps, and we can let things simmer a bit. One can say, like the government, that one is now taking a big step forward by implementing an EU directive. Either you take that position, or you take the position we Moderates have – that Sweden should be the best at this. Sweden should be the number one in Europe for foreign talents and highly skilled workers to come to. Then you can't just beat yourself to the chest, but you need reforms: talent visa, 30-day guarantee and a wide range of other things. We Moderates will continue to push for that.
i-02a6739951f9341d-565	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the interpeller for the question. This is an incredibly important issue for Swedish competitiveness. In fact, Sweden is in many ways number one in these contexts, and the government has taken steps to ensure that we develop and maintain such a position with certainty. The government sees reality and acts. I have also seen and followed the debate, Johan Forssell, but I report to you that, in the case of highly qualified workers, 99% receive their permits at the time of the first application and 96 at the time of the extension. That is, of course, the small part we need to continue discussing and where we need measures to avoid losing its extension. That is where the government has presented proposals. If Johan Forssell now thinks that I should speak more positively for the proposals voted by the Social Democrats in opposition, it would be well-lucky if Johan Forssell spoke well for the proposals he has just – this autumn – voted in favour of here, namely to remedy the possibility of making self-corrections, and looked positively at the proposals we have and which the investigators have presented about being able to correct even minor mistakes after the Migration Board has pointed them out. If we could agree on this system of things, I believe that this debate could lead to some degree of involvement in developing Swedish business and Swedish entrepreneurship and providing good conditions for the future. Thank you very much for the debate.
i-02a6739951f9341d-569	Madam President, I would like Lotta Finstorp has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the train traffic in Mälardalen is operationally safe. The government has high ambitions for the Swedish railways. A well-functioning rail transport system is important for us to achieve several of the government's objectives of high employment, basic accessibility, an increased share of qualified industrial production and reduced climate and environmental impact. When this government took office, the situation was such that we have long underinvested in what builds Sweden strong for the future. Hence, this government has consistently put responsible investment in community-building ahead of unfair tax cuts. I know that there are many important and urgent measures to be implemented around the country, and that is also why the government is investing over SEK 100 billion more than the previous government in the new national plan that we are going to decide on this spring. The Government has implemented significant reinforcements and increases the annual allocation for railway maintenance by SEK 1.34 billion per year during the period 2016– 2018. In the forthcoming national transport infrastructure plan for the period 2018-2029, the allocation for railway maintenance will be increased by a full 47 percent compared to the current plan. It will provide good conditions for upgrading the railways and tackling the problems that exist. The need for maintenance measures is great, and a lot of work will be needed to increase rail punctuality and strengthen robustness. It is a challenge to be able to carry out maintenance, as it is crowded on the tracks. The ambition is to disrupt traffic as little as possible, but it will be noticed when these much-needed works are to be carried out. It is also important that train operators assume their responsibilities and ensure that trains are of a high standard and that they can be used as intended. This reduces the risk of cancellation of departures and train breakdowns on the runways, which can lead to delays and stops in traffic. Another important area is the implementation of measures to reduce the unauthorised running of tracks. It has increased sharply and causes major traffic disruptions every year. The Finnish Transport Agency implements preventive measures by, among other things, setting up fences and installing surveillance cameras on vulnerable routes. It is now important for all actors to take on their individual responsibilities that interact with each other and in a joint effort to tackle the problems. It is my conviction that it will then be possible to achieve good results, for the benefit of all rail passengers both in the Mälar Valley and in the rest of the country.
i-02a6739951f9341d-577	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. A well-functioning railway is important for people to be able to get to and from work, to leisure activities and to study – at all – travelling in our country – but it is also crucial for companies and industry to be able to deliver their goods and produce with sustainable growth and competitiveness. The railway became a bat in the election movement in 2014. It was a very high tone – now it was to be delivered. It is clear that it also obliges a government to deliver. The problems of the railways would be addressed by day one. Three years later, the problems remain large, and frustrated travelers stand on the platform not least in Mälardalen. This is my own reality, and I wish that in this debate we might find a problem-solving solution. It's incredibly troubling out there. It is also not just a winter problem. If you look at traffic analysis statistics, you can see that in July 2017, for example, it dipped considerably; I think the punctuality then was 86 per cent. So the whole rail system is a very worn-out facility. Mälardalen can help Stockholm, which has a need for labour. Being able to commute by regional trains from about an hour outside Stockholm helps Stockholm very much. It is crowded in the housing market here. But then you must also be able to trust that you can actually travel on the regional train and arrive at meetings, customer visits or whatever it is. You have to know that when you get on the train – which hopefully goes – you will be able to pick up the children from preschool before the staff goes home. V i are many here commuting in Mälardalen, and it has been so much that people arrive on the platform and are despairing. They have invested and bought houses in our counties – in Västmanland, Uppland and Sörmland – but are about to give up because they do not know if they will arrive at work in the morning and home in the evening. It is more the problem I would like to highlight: what can be done here and now? For we can stand here and hit each other in the head with that we have invested the most and that the alliance government doubled and so on, but I hear people say that it feels like the emperor's new clothes. They see no effect of the money we say we have invested, whether it was the alliance government or today's government. I would therefore like to highlight the question of what is to be done here and now. More and more people are now taking the car to Stockholm, and we do not want that. They are in queues for much longer than it takes to sit on the train. Someone commuting from Eskilstuna just wrote to me on Facebook that the trains were cancelled three times last week. When I read traffic analysis statistics it looks like the cancelled trains are not really included, but you could count on an additional minus 2 per cent in January. This was especially the 16th of January, because at that time the punctuality rate was incredibly low. How, then, can we do to maximise the impact of tax money here and now? You build double tracks on Svealandsbanan, and it is obvious that there will be a lot of problems. It will be a bus instead, because you have to be able to get on the tracks and work. It is also one of the problems; I am commuting on the Western Main Line, and I think it is under four minutes in the middle of the night that action can be taken. So there's too much traffic on too little tracks, I think. It's my amateur analysis. I would like to hear what we can do here and now for these poor commuters.
i-02a6739951f9341d-587	Madam President, I would like Much of what Lotta Finstorp said about the frustration for commuters I can sign on. As the Minister of Infrastructure knows, I live in Uppsala. Today we have had great troubles. Last week we had great trouble, and even the week before that we had great trouble. There is a disillusionment among commuters that the situation is as it is. I share the Minister's view that there have been eight years of under-financing. Our first budget also became a bourgeois budget, which means that we have only had three years to find a solution to the problem. We had hoped, as commuters, that a change would take place a little faster. It has been an extremely tough winter, both when it comes to driving by car and riding by train, and I understand that this situation has contributed. But we can also see that the Swedish Transport Administration has received an incredibly large increase in resources, just as the Minister said in his reply to Lotta Finstorp. There is a bet, but as commuters we do not see the result. This is what creates frustration when we stand there. Why is nothing happening? A commuter told me that Trafikverket had said that there was a fault in a switchboard. Then they will have to set aside an old man to stand at the switchboard with some syringe that can make the gear warm, so that you can switch, or solve it somehow! But instead, the trains are stopped. Maybe it's about priorities. You might have to look at where the biggest worries are. A concern is also, when it comes to Uppsala and the northern part, that we only have two tracks. It takes time to expand to four tracks, but if a track gets locked, we're screwed. We've spent many hours at the train center. This morning I changed the platform four times, I think – back and forth, here and there – hoping that any train would go. At the committee meeting here in Parliament today, two seats were empty due to delays in trains. Then you can imagine what it's like for everyone else who has jobs. There's a lot of frustration. I wanted to send with the Minister that we look forward to these priorities, now that the resources are available. How hard can it be? You'd say sometimes. It is probably harder than we think, but the feeling that we as commuters have is that one should focus on this. For those of us commuting from Uppsala, I would like to express the frustration at the current situation.
i-02a6739951f9341d-594	Madam President, I would like Trains must go and arrive on time – it is the task of the responsible authority, the Finnish Transport Agency, to execute. And never have the conditions been better than now, with the huge additions of resources that this government has decided on. The Minister himself mentioned 1.34 billion a year. The exception was 2015, when it landed at 620 million, because it was an alliance budget that contained no more than that. To receive statistics for punctuality is a very boring reading. It is the Finnish Transport Agency that delivers these statistics monthly. It is said that these are mainly two areas: commuter trains, rail runs, which the Minister for Infrastructure mentioned in his introductory speech, and urgent cancellations. The latter is mostly due to heavy snowfalls combined with strong winds. It may be, but when you look at the train delays over time, you can see that it has been even worse – at least in the case of long-distance trains, as it is called. If we look from March to June, we see that the lowest punctuality was down to 68.7%. In January, when there was snow and storm, punctuality landed at 75.7 percent. Now there are many figures, but you can see that there is no need for snow or storm for trains not to be able to go on time. The train running on time means that you should get to the final station no more than five minutes after the timetable. Even cancelled trains are included in the delay statistics – it may be good to know for those of you who are listening. This is not an impressive reading. I'm, like Agneta Gille, very worried. The Westerners and all commuters in Mälardalen should be able to rely on the trains to go and arrive on time. Now the government is investing 125 billion in railway maintenance over the next 12 years. That's 10.4 billion a year. There's never been that much money in the system. The mission to Trafikverket is to create a robust and reliable infrastructure, so that Westerners, foreigners and Sörmömlanders can rely on them to take the train. We are not there today, and I am very sorry about that.
i-02a6739951f9341d-600	Madam President, I would like Thanks to Lotta Finstorp, Agneta Gille and Pia Nilsson! I think these are wise and legitimate questions that are being asked. We have every right to expect better results from the efforts made. I am proud that we can now spend more resources than before on railway maintenance. I think it is very important that in the national plan, as I mentioned earlier, we can add 100 billion more. We may be able to get four tracks to Uppsala, as the Swedish Transport Administration proposes, and other important investments. Nevertheless, I would like to take note of what Lotta Finstorp mentioned in her interpellation: What can we do here and now? Of course, it is also a question of making the right demands on the Finnish Transport Agency, on the operators and on the regional transport companies. As we now spend more resources, of course, the demands of the government – from the government – also increase that it is time for delivery. That is one of the reasons why I have announced that we also want to change the railway maintenance work so that a large part of the basic maintenance that will be carried out in the future will be carried out by the Finnish Transport Administration. We move it from Infranord and add it to the Swedish Transport Administration to get better order and control on railway maintenance. I think it is important to take decisive action. I understand very well the frustration of commuters over the delays, whether they are in Uppsala, in Mälardalen or elsewhere. I know that many are waiting and longing for the investments proposed by the government to be implemented. The fact that regional operators are now buying in new trains will, of course, also make it easier. If we look at the errors, we see that there are sometimes signal errors and faults. This is mainly about a worn-down train system, as a result of a great deal of pressure on the trains today as we travel so many trains. This should be addressed with maintenance efforts. But we also see track running, which has increased by 280 percent from 2013 to 2017. It's a dramatic increase. I must honestly say that I myself am a little surprised by this increase – this must, of course, indicate that people have a completely different attitude to the risks involved. Enough because we have had suicide problems on our railways for a long time, but that so many people are now lurking over to gain time – and thus causing major stops – is extremely serious. To this can be added the problem of operators having poor wagons or lack of wagons. In Stockholm traffic we could also see that the regional approach with skip stop created concerns. I believe that the lesson that we are going to learn – which is also a requirement that I place on the operators, on the Finnish Transport Agency, on the regional operators and on the maintenance companies – is to be very much more careful with the planning of maintenance operations. You'd rather cancel a departure than drive a train that stops. Another lesson is to be substantially better with information for travellers. Like the interpellants, I receive comments and letters from many people. The greatest frustration is sometimes the lack of information – to sit on a train and hear the technical explanation but not why or when the next train goes. There is intensive work going on at Trafikverket to change the information system, including using social media as a platform. It is not consistent that we have the current lack of information for travellers. This responsibility lies clearly with the Finnish Transport Agency, the regional operators, the train companies and the maintenance companies. I will do all I can to highlight this in the dialogue with the authorities and in the executive railway group that we have. I will, of course, also do what is required of politics, that is to say, provide resources. It should not be a lack of resources that causes us to have problems in the train system. It must be the right work to do.
i-02a6739951f9341d-612	Madam President, I would like Thank you to those who have taken part in the debate, and I also thank the Minister. It is interesting to stand here and have the same vision and give the same description of problems, although it is very sad that we have to stand here and do it. The track run that the Minister mentions is a new phenomenon. Twice when I was standing on the platform in Flen last week, young people came and jumped up right in front of X 2000. It takes a mile to stop an X-2000. It's terrible. I do not know whether it is necessary to inform the whole of Sweden about how serious this is. All of us standing on the platform and with our hearts in their throats saw this screaming at them: It is not only that you are risking your lives, but you are doing so that the rest of us will be left here on the platform because traffic is being strangled. It is totally unsolidarical with the track running, as you hear about all the time. Then there was the question of the lack of information. At the Central Station, for example, it is a long way to go to change tracks. Older people and disabled people are standing there with the heart in the pit of their throats. Should they go up from one track and then down to the next track? Then they may not hear what is being called out. It's got to get a lot better. I can't say it's gotten worse since you came to power. It's probably been just as bad for a long time. Sometimes it may be that when a train stands still on the track people can suddenly read on Facebook what is wrong. Those of you who commute a lot recognize this, and that is also very strange. There will be an inequality in the information. Not everyone has access to social media or can be connected. One problem that exists on the Western Main Line is that as soon as there are problems, which is often, the high-speed trains take precedence. I also made that point during the last parliamentary term. I may think that if you go on long-distance sometimes it is not as serious to be ten minutes late as it is for the one who commutes every day and who constantly gets 15 minutes late to work. Then we will go aside, and then all the high-speed trains from Gothenburg and Malmö will pass. This means that we are still being delayed all the time. I would like to highlight regional train commuting. It's good. The commuters can move from the car to the train. They're the ones who have about an hour's drive to work. As it is now, however, more and more people have started car - car car driving. None of us want that. We want more people to ride trains. Many business travellers now say that they do not dare to take the train for example the Stockholm – Gothenburg route but that they take the flight instead because the flight is more punctual. No one wants it that way. This is a huge problem. When you tell us your experiences from your platform, it appears that it is Mälardalen that is hardest hit t. I do not have statistics that compare with Skåne, for example, but this winter has been terrible. In 2012 there was also an incredible amount of inconvenience on the railway. We can hit each other in the head about shooting even more money. The alliance doubled the funding for maintenance when we came to power because the maintenance was neglected for decades. But if the money doesn't come out to the tracks, shooting more money won't help.
i-02a6739951f9341d-624	Madam President, I would like We commuters are so huge. Away from 40,000 people are moving back and forth at the Central Station in Uppsala. We travel around Uppland, towards Stockholm and north. This is fascinating. It is about keeping these commuters so that we do not lose them. I was on a study trip with colleagues from the Riksdag to Switzerland. I was so fascinated. Then they invited us on a train ride up to the mountains. The trains are punctual, and it's snow chaos and heavy winter. But the trains make their way up towards the villages, the ski resorts and so on. The fascinating thing is that it works. Switzerland is now a rich country, but a priority has been made. You can see and learn. When acquiring new train sets, train operators should give priority to train sets that operate during severe winter, so that the current problems do not arise. We travelers and commuters meet with staff, and I still have to commend the staff at SJ. The very few are very kind. Today there was a fantastic conductor on the train – once we got off to Stockholm. He said we didn't have to worry about tickets, but he hoped that we would arrive as quickly as possible because we had waited many hours. I'll give them credit for that. They may also stand in the hole for those of us who want to get to work on time.
i-02a6739951f9341d-628	Madam President, I would like There is definitely no shortage of resources, as the Minister said. It feels safe that the government has taken this issue very seriously, unlike the previous government that has been under-funded the issue for a long time. Now 125 billion goes to railway maintenance for the next 12 years. It's huge money from taxpayers. We in our party and the government prioritise this as important. Then we shall also mention what I think the Minister said something about in his opening speech, namely that inspection responsibility has returned to the Finnish Transport Administration. Similarly, basic maintenance is on its way back to order. The government has taken a push around the whole problem. It is now high time for the responsible authorities, train operators and maintenance companies to really ensure that their efforts are coordinated. In fact, I do not know how many times we have talked about this over the years, not least in the context of the Transport Committee. It's hard to see any improvement. The information works like that, I can think that commutes itself between Sala and Stockholm. Some times it is good, and others it is not at all. What we have not mentioned very much is the socio-economic costs. They're huge. There is a rough estimate from 2015 that this affects travellers and businesses to the equivalent of 5 billion, but the socio-economic costs are significantly higher than that. It's serious. Nevertheless, I am grateful, satisfied and confident with the decisions made by the government and what the Minister has just told us.
i-02a6739951f9341d-634	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a good discussion. It may lead too far in the discussion, but the parable with Switzerland is interesting. That is also the illustration that is being told by those who travel in other rail systems in the EU. We should remember that Sweden has the EU's perhaps most liberalised rail system. There are a variety of operators here. I am not saying this as a long ideological submission, but it believes in a market regulation with several different actors who were in force for a long time has not always proved to be working properly for large stable systems such as rail systems. We need to think about the consequences of this in the long run. I would like to make three points. The first point is that Lotta Finstorp mentions the track run. I believe that we must all contribute in this discussion to raising awareness of the damage caused by the track run. It is not only that individuals themselves expose themselves to extreme risks in the form of death, electric shocks, and so on. This indirectly harms all other passengers with long delays. An increase of 280 percent is a dramatic increase. The Finnish Transport Agency is making increased efforts in the area of camera surveillance. It is also a question of building protective fences and closing sensitive sections. But basically it is a change in behaviour that we need to bring about, and I want us all to take that responsibility and talk about the risks and injuries caused by track runs. The second point concerns a competitive situation which I think many of you have mentioned, both now and on previous occasions – the one between commuter trains, long-distance trains and freight trains. It is a classic competitive situation, and in Sweden we have had a system where long-distance trains have gone ahead and we have protected freight traffic. But at the rate with which more and more people commute and every day need to come to work, that conflict is growing clearly. In almost all the regions I have visited during the work on the national plan, I have had a regular discussion with regional representatives on how to facilitate commuting traffic. One can of course talk about order of priority, but basically it is about solving the problem of bottlenecks that exist in our rail system and ensuring that one meets on a double track. Throughout the Finnish Transport Agency's proposal for a national plan, which we are now working on, we see that it is possible to do much with relatively simple investments that mean that you find meeting tracks and in this way do not end up in a situation where the whole commuting traffic is knocked out just because, for example, you get a wagon failure on a long-distance train. The third point concerns information. I think it's right, what Lotta Finstorp mentioned, that some people see it on Facebook. In the beginning you might get information by accident by Aftonbladet or someone wrote about it and you found it in social media on your phone. The Swedish Transport Administration is now working on more platforms and will do so for the simple reason that the most important goal must be to reach as many travelers as possible. We cannot wait for old systems and information boards to function fully. Of course they will, but we need to find more ways to reach travellers with the right information. This in itself gives you as a traveler an opportunity to have the choice to take another option at worst. With regard to persons who cannot assimilate or easily move, this is even more important. It is a clear dialogue I have had with the Swedish Transport Administration. I would also like to take this opportunity to say something I think is important. The Finnish Transport Agency and the train operators receive a lot of criticism when errors occur. But let's remember that it's a fantastic effort they make, the staff who meet tired travelers, find solutions and do everything they can to get the trains out. It also deserves praise, the work they do.
i-02a6739951f9341d-643	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for a good debate! It highlights a problem that we see in common here and now. A few months ago, there was a startling report that 43 000 inspection notes are waiting to be corrected. We doubled the grant because the maintenance was neglected before we took office in the alliance government. We can stand here and talk about it, but it doesn't seem to be money missing from the system, but the money doesn't work properly. That must be what's wrong. If there are 43 000 inspection notes waiting to be corrected, is there no money or structure or process logistics? Somewhere, it's a big mistake. It is also about our tax money. How should they be used? Here you send in billions – 1.3 or 1.4? They are in the pot now but do not work in the way they should, because then we would not have stood there on the platform with all commuters and frozen – or sweated in the summer, because it is not a winter problem. I'm glad we have a consensus on this, but I don't really know what to answer the commuters tomorrow or Thursday. After all, there is no way that this will change quickly, even though we doubled the funding and you have added further. Yet it looks like this. It must be noted that the tracks are too crowded and that the facilities are worn out. For example, I heard that there are no longer spare parts because the railway in some places is as old as our old main railway, which was the first in Sweden. Then you have to replace the whole thing. Maybe everything needs to stand still for six months so that we can go and get to work and school on time and so on.
i-JCUkNzqZKxYmdx4njowjA4	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Finstorp, Agneta Gille and Pia Nilsson, for a good discussion about the problems! It is clear that I can and on several occasions choose to make clear party politics out of this and to accuse not least the former Finance Minister, who said that we have overinvested in railways. It is part of politics. It should also be made clear that choosing to invest in tax cuts rather than in things that build a country strong, such as ensuring that we have good quality in the rail system, will have consequences. We have now inherited them. I'll still say that I appreciate the interest in what we can do here and now. I think that is the question that many people ask themselves. I'm not resting on the male here. Although it is important to add resources and even if the national plan with the EUR 700 billion investment we are presenting will take some time. The rail maintenance efforts we are now making are incredibly large – a 47% increase. But it will also pose challenges for the train system in order to implement this. That is, of course, crucial. But we must also be clear in the requirements and accountability of the train operators, the Finnish Transport Agency and the maintenance companies so that we get value for money and the impact of the efforts we are now demanding. This is one of the reasons why I announced a change in the organisation of maintenance and an increased share in Trafikverket's own operations. But that is also one of the reasons why I think that maintenance efforts should be co-planned more clearly, that we should increase attention on track runs, that we should ensure better information to passengers and, not least, that we should ensure that operators do not make their own regional arrangements that increase uncertainty but actually comply with the rules that exist. Then we will also get better order in traffic.
i-02a6739951f9341d-652	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked me what measures I am planning to take in order to clarify the liability for payment and what tools I am prepared to give to the police, the Finnish Transport Agency and individual towers so that they can resolve the situation on the ground with vehicle salvage and thus avoid third parties being affected. I take this problem seriously and share Edward Riedl's concern that vehicles will be standing, dangerous or not, on or in connection with our roads. However, it is the responsibility of the owner to ensure that the vehicle is removed from the site as soon as possible. If the owner does not move or tow his vehicle at the request of the Finnish Transport Administration or the Swedish Police Authority, the authorities have the right to move or to remove a vehicle under the law and regulation on the movement of vehicles in certain cases. In October 2015, the Finnish Transport Agency produced a routine description of how the Agency will carry out such a move, and the Swedish Police Authority has similar support in the Swedish National Police Board's regulations and general advice on moving vehicles. The owner of the vehicle moved under this Act is obliged to reimburse the cost of the transfer and any other measures taken by the authorities under this Act. A private salvage company may, under the retention right, retain the vehicle for an unlimited period of time until payment is made. It is important that tow companies take advantage of the opportunities available so that these vehicles are removed as soon as possible. I will therefore raise the matter with the Finnish Transport Administration in the reconciliations I have with the Authority.
i-02a6739951f9341d-656	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Let me begin with what the Minister describes in his reply, Madam President: the routine description that the Finnish Transport Administration has had since 2015. Despite this, we have had a lot of examples this winter – too many examples if I may reformulate myself in that way – where foreign trucks are standing and there is a discussion about who will pay to tow the foreign truck when the driver refuses to pay. That is what has started to happen. Private salvage companies depend on getting paid for the job they do. If they don't get paid, they can't pay wages or drive their vehicles, so this is easy. Too often, when they have towed the foreign trucks, they are never paid afterwards. What they have then started to do, which is of course fully understood, is to demand payment on site before the vehicle is moved. This is quite natural. We have had some situations this winter. What made me write this interpellation to the minister was just an example where the traffic along the E4, the important blood vein from Norrland to southern Sweden land road, with few ways to redirect traffic, became permanent hour and hour in. Queues grew and thousands of road users became standing. Great economic values are damaged when this happens. Many people are personally and privately affected. It makes it difficult for rescue vehicles and many others. And there's a call about who's going to pay between the police, the Finnish Transport Administration and the one who's caused the accident with a truck that's blocking all the way. The question is very simple: the person who will have his vehicle salvaged will pay. That is what the Minister also says – we are in complete agreement on this. The problem arises when you refuse to pay and instead wait and let someone else pay so that you don't have to. I think this is terribly provocative, and I think that all the thousands of people who are waiting will also think, when they understand why they have waited: because someone refuses to pay. I think the Minister's answer is good. It's not all the times you say it when you're standing here debating. I think it is good that you should re-open a discussion with Trafikverket so that the situation can be cleared up quickly and the vehicle can be salvaged, detained and waited for payment for all the additional costs associated with keeping the vehicle. It is important that this information goes out and reaches everyone so that it can start working that way, because that has not worked this winter, Madam President. Many have been affected by some who have refused to pay. I am very pleased with this, but my contribution to the Minister, whom I ask him to consider, is whether the government should perhaps take the initiative to introduce a fine. Here rescue work is deliberately delayed and the opportunity to get traffic to flow again is deliberately delayed. The social costs a single driver causes are enormous. I think it should be subject to fines to do so.
i-02a6739951f9341d-664	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Edward Riedl, for the praise! Let me return that: I think it was a good interpellation. It gave me the opportunity to both inform about what actually applies and also do some extra advertising, I was about to say, for the concept of retention right. This cannot easily be done in an advertising campaign, but if you are to be really serious, you realize that there are strong opportunities to tow away. There are no obstacles in the law. There are clear guidelines on what applies to both the police and the Finnish Transport Agency. I read in the newspaper Proffs, which usually contains a lot of information for those who work in commercial traffic, an example from the owner of Donald's car salvage, Donald Pillblad. He describes precisely the dilemma that has existed: that one has previously salvaged and then not been paid. This, of course, is not reasonable. Instead of reluctant to carry out the salvage, Donald Pilblad chose to say, "Then I'll seize." This is how he describes it: The owner of Donald Bilbärgning... is refined as far as Danish Freja's previous promises of compensation for other works are concerned. "They have said at previous salvages that they should pay, but when the invoice is sent, they simply say that they are not clients and the payment is not due," he says. Therefore, the entire combination and goods are now under lock and key until the invoice is paid and we charge per day now. ..................................................... This is the right of retention, and I believe it is underused. I fully share the point of departure of the interpellier: this is an atrocity. It creates great concern, not only on the E4, which is certainly a good example, but on much of our roads when we cannot quickly bring about a salvage. I should like to remind you that, not so long ago, we in the government have increased the speed at which tow can be carried out, precisely so that the tow itself will not cause major trouble or delays in traffic. With the load we have on important traffic routes, it is incredibly important to quickly get rid of vehicles that hinder accessibility. There are possibilities in the form of coercive laws and retention rights. I hope and believe that the knowledge of retention rights is spreading, with the right information – such information that both I and Edward Riedl contribute to the interpellation debate. It will be an effective and effective means. Should it then be necessary to initiate fines or other incentives, I have no worries about that, because this is a traffic hazard at the time it happens. But I also believe that the right guidance and training for the police and the Finnish Transport Administration and the right knowledge for carriers about retention rights will mean that they are considerably more sharp when it comes to evading vehicles that are misplaced.
i-02a6739951f9341d-672	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Minister, for your answer. We are very much in favour of this, as the listener can say. As far as the praise is concerned, it may not come every time in these debates, but at times it may also be appropriate to say when you think that the Minister has done or intends to do a good job. I am raising an issue that I think is very important for Norrland because E4 is one of the few ways of providing traffic from north to south. There are very few diversions. What has happened this winter is that traffic has not been diverted because the queues have grown so fast. Then there are no ways to lead to. If I raise that problem and the Minister says he intends to do something about it, it is clear that I think the Minister is doing a good job. Of course, I share the view that this is a problem in many parts of Sweden. However, I think that the coast of Norrland has been more affected than other places for the simple reason that the further north we come, the colder it gets. The combination from countries south of us in Europe has tyres with a different rubber blend than the one we use in Scandinavia. This means that the tyres become much harder when the climate gets colder. There will then be poor functionality along the way with that type of tyre. So it is clear that the further north you come and the colder it gets, the more often you get these accidents. If we add the EU trailers, with a different weight distribution combined with poorer tyres, it is clear that we will have more accidents. We have had it too, Madam President. We have had fatal accidents along the Norrland coast caused by this type of combination, with poor tyres and the poor weight distribution characteristic of EU trailers. Unfortunately, people have been killed as a result of this, and, as I said, there have also been major delays along the coast of Norrland. I think it is a good thing that the Minister intends to bring this up with the Finnish Transport Administration and clarify it. I think it is necessary, because the possibilities offered by the law have not been used. I also think it is a good thing that the Minister is at least considering the use of fines as an option if this is not put right. Unfortunately, as far as the Minister is concerned, if you rest too long on this, we may have time to change the government. But then that government will have to solve that kind of problem in the future. Thank you very much. I am not going to prolong the debate any more than that. I think the Minister's answer is good. I look forward to the Minister clarifying to the Finnish Transport Administration the legal possibilities of actually detaining these lorries when they refuse to pay for themselves.
i-02a6739951f9341d-680	Madam President, I would like As Edward Riedl mentions the traffic problems we have encountered, not least this winter, as a result of the fact that lorries, especially from outside Sweden, are often poorly equipped with tyres, I will take this opportunity to inform you that today, as I have told you in the media, we are moving forward with stricter requirements on winter tyres. This means that heavy duty vehicles must have winter tyres on all wheels and on the trailer. Buses should have it too. Today we have, I can say to those who listen and follow this debate, legislation which means that we, who have ordinary passenger cars, are expected to have winter tyres on all wheels, but not trucks and buses; there it is only on the drive axle. It is a piece of legislation that I do not think is a filler. That is why we are now moving forward and tightening up the legislation so as to impose requirements on winter tyres on heavy-duty vehicles on all wheels. This in itself will mean an increase in road safety. Then I have drawn attention – as has Edward Riedl in the past – to the issue of European trailers. It is an issue that we ourselves do not have at our disposal. It is also an EU regulatory framework, which means that I intend to bring this up with Commissioner Violeta Bulc when she comes to Sweden later this week. I am doing this to draw her and the Commission's attention to the concerns that EU trailers seem to create on Swedish roads. This is the government's way of making very clear progress in terms of road safety. It is a question of imposing requirements on winter tyres and of making sure that there are ways of regulating the use of EU trailers. But it is also, of course, a question of telling us about the regulatory framework that exists when someone is blocking. The Police Authority and the Swedish Transport Administration are today entitled to remove a vehicle by law and regulation. This means that you have the opportunity to put it in a place where it does not interfere with traffic. This means that a tow truck can use the retention right and even lock up the vehicle until the charge and the cost of the tow are paid. It is, quite correctly used, a very effective means. A large combination, with a valuable cargo, which is locked up for a long time is expensive for both the haulage company and the one who ordered the transport. I think it is important that we are clear here. In Sweden they have to relate to the rules that exist. Now we are tightening them up in several parts of the transport area. It is about a possibility to lock the wheels for up to 36 hours, about increased demands on winter tires and about a customer responsibility, as we have announced, so that the orderer ensures that it is legal. And it is, of course, a question of using the tools that exist in terms of the possibility of tow. I think Edward Riedl is right about those road users who are forced to stand in mile-long queues. There are, in itself, few opportunities, but once that happens, it is not acceptable. The loss of production and the irritation and frustration resulting from it are not good. So we're going to use the tools that exist. We will ensure that towers, traffic services and police are familiar with these tools. Therefore, the guidance information provided by the authority is also important. It is a question of ensuring that it is disseminated. In this way, I believe that we have a good chance of getting a better order and order of our ways. It's necessary.
i-02a6739951f9341d-687	Madam President, I would like The Minister mentioned something that we do not agree on. Then I thought I would take this opportunity to use my last speech as well. That is a good thing; we cannot, of course, be completely separated by consensus when we move away from this House. It feels good. Let me first say that I share the Minister's desire to have more road safety on our roads. In that ambition, we are in complete agreement. The problem is not the Swedish trucks, with the rubber blends that the Swedish trucks today have. They're safe from traffic. The problem is the lorries coming from other parts of Europe. It's about EU trailers with lower weight distribution and less rubber blend in tyres – in cold climates they get very hard. It'll be like a hangover. There is no braking effect or possibility of anything else either. That's the problem. We have not dealt with the matter clearly, but I would still like to raise it to the Minister. The question is whether this is the right way to force all Swedish hauliers and trucks to switch to winter tyres when they already have safe tyres. It's a huge cost. In fact, the environmental impact of the measure proposed by this government has been calculated. The aviation tax introduced has a marginal impact on the climate. They are wiped out by the decision taken today. There will be increased resistance, more wear and more particles in the air without any benefit – you can look at the Swedish trucks, which already with Scandinavian tyres have good enough safety. I think that is a pity, Madam President. I share the Minister's desire for traffic improvements, but I do not share the solution. I think that is a very bad solution. However, let me say: that is not what the debate was about. We disagree on this. We share the ambition of road safety. We share the ambition to solve the problem we have had this winter. I think that's basically good. I would like to thank the Minister for a good debate. I would like to thank Linnea, who has come all the way from Umeå and who has listened and followed the debate from the gallery. It's also the only person in the gallery. I would like to thank the President and wish everyone a pleasant evening when this is done.
i-02a6739951f9341d-692	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a good and valuable interpellation debate! It is not the time, in the last speech, when Edward Riedl is not in a position to respond, to attack. However, I have to say that I am surprised that we can be opposed to this after this winter, with the problems we have had in traffic and with the major disruptions caused not least by heavy vehicles, buses and foreign lorries with poor tyres in traffic. How, then, can one be opposed to the introduction of winter tyre requirements? This applies not only to Swedish hauliers and Swedish trucks. Foreign trucks have to relate to the rules we have in Sweden. This is legislation that has been in place in Norway since before. And in Sweden, Swedish serious skiers equip their vehicles with good tyres. They ensure that not only for road safety reasons but also for health and safety reasons and for the care of their drivers, they equip their vehicles with good tyres. But they get a competitive disadvantage when foreign companies or rogue hauliers choose not to make their vehicles road safety safe. I do not want a skier who ensures that good tyres are affected by a loss of competitiveness because others do not understand the importance of ensuring that the vehicle is properly equipped. That is why we are moving forward with legislation. This means that foreign hauliers who come to Swedish territory also have to relate to our road safety rules. This will make the roads safer. This will mean that drivers of vehicles will have a better working environment. I am absolutely convinced that this will lead to good profits in terms of human lives, fewer accidents and reduced traffic disruptions. After this winter, I think we all realize how incredibly important this is. I know that this is a proposal that many in the transport sector have been looking forward to.
i-02a6739951f9341d-696	Madam President, I would like Emma Wallrup has asked me what measures I intend to take to reduce emissions from our domestic transport to a sufficient extent in order to achieve Sweden's 2030 climate target and whether I will work to ensure that the government introduces additional measures that make public transport more attractive and have more people to put the car. The Government will decide on a new national transport infrastructure plan for the years 2018 – 2029. The starting point is that it will contribute to meeting the transport policy objectives and contribute to a number of societal challenges, including the transition to the world's first fossil-free welfare country. Furthermore, the Government will also develop a strategy for efficient, sustainable and capable freight transport. During its term of office, the Government has taken a wide range of measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport. A bonus – malus system that stimulates the purchase of relatively lower-emission vehicles, a reduction obligation for gradually increasing the incorporation of biofuels in petrol and diesel, and investment support for climate change. The Government has also allocated specific funds for the Energy Agency's mission to coordinate the transition of the transport sector to fossil freedom and resources to introduce environmental compensation for rail freight transport and a so-called eco-bonus for shipping. Furthermore, Trafikverket has the Government's mission to investigate the conditions for electric roads. In spring 2018, the government will also present a climate strategy. Public transport is mainly a regional and municipal responsibility, but also the state actively contributes to improving the conditions for collective travel through investments in transport infrastructure, through urban planning agreements and with an electricity bus premium that allows municipalities and regional public transport authorities to apply for financial support. The government is now strengthening its efforts to promote public transport in rural areas. Previously announced funds of SEK 848 million during the period 2016 – 2019 will be increased by SEK 167 million during the period 2018 – 2020. In order to also improve rail punctuality and robustness, the Government has carried out significant reinforcements of railway maintenance and increased the annual allocation for railway maintenance by SEK 1.34 billion per year during the period 2016– 2018. Finally, I would like to point out that, at the Government's proposal, the Riksdag has decided that greenhouse gas emissions from domestic transport – outside domestic aviation – will decrease by at least 70% by 2030 compared to 2010. In order to achieve this objective, action is needed on several fronts where community planning, the development of efficient transport systems, including efficient vehicles, fossil-free fuels and measures addressing transport demand can contribute.
i-02a6739951f9341d-703	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Sweden has a climate target to reduce emissions from domestic transport by 70 per cent by 2030. A recent report from the Finnish Transport Agency shows that the emissions from road traffic decreased by only 2 per cent last year compared with the previous year. In fact, an annual reduction of around 8% is required. We are in a rather serious situation. We may need to work with backcasting, which among other things The natural step has worked with a lot. It has been active for a very long time in environmental policy. Trafikverket has also recommended this in its climate roadmap, which was one of the referrals to the action plan. It's about first looking at the target and then seeing what steps you need to take to reach the target. Rather than sit and year by year, look at what you can do and look at the instruments you have in front of you on the table. Maybe you don't look at the long-term goal. Rather, we need to look at: What steps do we need to get there? I would recommend that the government look at backcasting and target priority rather than looking at forecasting, which, unfortunately, is easy to get into when you want to think about economic growth and so on. The same is true of the transport sector at all. There is a very good intention that the Minister mentions in his reply to have a plan for high-capacity freight transport and to develop a strategy for it. I am curious to know whether this plan also looks at transport efficiency. I know that the government has set targets for circular economy, for example. Our consumption is reaching over all the boards. If you take a trip with a Finnish ferry today, you can see that it is a consumption palace that resembles a Roman palace with high pillars up to the roof with branded gadgets. It's a huge consumption hysteria right now that's lethal. We're consuming the planet. I'm a little curious about whether there's a broader idea where you interact with other areas within the government. It is about how we can both work with consumption patterns, the circular economy and that part and maybe also look at freight flows in Sweden and how to streamline them better in the good strategy. It was a thought that struck me when I read the minister's answer. Environmental compensation for rail freight transport sees the Left Party as something very positive. We would like it to be raised to the same level as the cost to the railway plant itself that the companies that run on the tracks will have to pay. There's been a lot of complaints about that. It is important to get to the same level in order to make it more advantageous to drive by rail towards road. That is also important. With regard to rail maintenance, I would like to emphasise the figure of 10 billion a year. I know it won't last quite anymore. It's increasing a bit because we're driving more. The capacity study, the railway promotion and many actors, and even when you talk to Seko, says that 10 billion per year is what it costs to keep the entire facility in order. It's about ongoing maintenance. It is good to talk about that number often. It's been forgotten before.
i-Wqa3dQss5ktqASPsBvCzpR	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Emma Wallrup, for an important interpellation! It is incredibly important that we in Sweden have the ambition to become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. It is a statement that obliges. That is why, with climate law and the climate investments we make during our term of office, we show the Swedish people, the business community, the labour market, companies but also the environment that it is possible to change. I personally thought that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's report on greenhouse gas emissions from domestic transport was a pleasant reading. It showed that emissions from the transport sector have decreased. Emissions from passenger cars were 19 per cent lower in 2016 than in 1990, and emissions also decreased in the last year. This is happening in a situation where traffic work has increased and there are more vehicles on our roads. That shows what I think many ten years ago did not really believe was possible. It is possible by political means to change and ensure that we can maintain good opportunities to travel back and forth and yet by changing fuels to reduce emissions. Of course, the level of ambition must be higher than the percentage we now reach. There I fully share the opinion of the interpellier. That is one of the reasons why we are making major investments. We will spend 100 billion more on infrastructure. We spend a lot on rail but also some on the way forward to increase the opportunities for sustainable transport. That is also why, during this time, I have been working on a good strategy. It is about ensuring that the transport sector, which nevertheless accounts for a very large proportion of emissions, can cope with the change. Here, the good strategy will be important not least to show how we can strengthen shipping. From a climate point of view, increased use of shipping is one of the smarter ways we can work. I am pleased to note that the flag is now increasing. The Swedish merchant fleet is increasing thanks to the change that we have made to the tonnage tax system. We can now, with a clear good strategy, identify the opportunities for modernising our ports and developing maritime transport. This should be done with the right instruments and in dialogue with the industry. Then we can also ensure that a large part of the freight transport that we will still need in the future can be done to a large extent in a sustainable way. There is sometimes a belief in the debate that a great deal of goods can be transferred from road to rail very quickly. Now investigations show that it's not quite that simple. It's full on our railways. There are a lot of companies that want to use and people who want to ride trains. This means that there is no incredible capacity to hand over more goods there. This underlines the importance of finding ways to strengthen shipping, as well as ways to optimise the good structure we use today. It is about not travelling with semi-empty trucks but finding better opportunities to optimize and use the resources we have. It also shows the importance of making an infrastructure for heavy transport that is fossil-free. In the interpellation response, I briefly mentioned the task of the Swedish Transport Administration on electric roads. Imagine that it is possible in the near future that we in existing infrastructure can make electrical rails that allow a truck to upload and then be completely fossil-free! It is an interesting development work that is done together with the Swedish automotive industry. It is Ernst Express up in Sandviken who loads on his Scania trucks and in this way can make heavy transport completely fossil-free. There is an opportunity here that Sweden can become not only the world's first fossil-free welfare country but, as I usually say, a permanent world exhibition. There you can see how we implement new environmentally smart technology in the transport system.
i-02a6739951f9341d-722	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is interesting with the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's report and also the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's consultation on the action plan. There it is said that we may not be investing more in the road at all because it is such an acute climate situation. The focus is on target management. I just want to send the minister that that referral is very important. We live in a time where the climate reports are boisterous. They are getting worse and worse, and we are already seeing scenarios that we never thought we would see in our lifetime. It's a very urgent situation. However, we still have the opportunity to reverse developments. The faster we move forward, the better. I would also like to emphasise the small railways, which might need a few billion. Nevertheless, according to many authorities, regional public transport is perhaps more than high-speed trains that make us reach climate targets. This is said, among other things, in the FFF investigation, which the bourgeois government produced. A few billion extra could be added here to electrify and strengthen regional transport for both freight and passenger transport. It would give a huge boost to achieving climate goals. I just want to add it to the debate. Then I would like to return to my basic question in the interpellation on public transport. I would like to see the government have additional measures to strengthen public transport, because if we are to have the most efficient means of transport in focus, it is, after all, on the road and on the wheels, public transport. I would like to see much more instruments here, although I think that the urban environment agreement and other instruments are in the pipeline. But I would like to see an even more ambitious approach. Unfortunately, public transport in many counties competes with health care, which is already on its knees. It's a huge problem. In Germany, free public transport is now being tested in several cities, which will be interesting. I advocate, on behalf of the Left Party, both free public transport and reduced prices. I think we should have more instruments so that the public transport authorities can work on urban planning in the way they do in Freiburg, which I often highlight. One could co-plan to reduce motorism by increasing public transport coverage and lowering prices and still achieving profitability, as has been achieved in Freiburg. I would like to hear a little more vision of how we can really achieve the doubling target in public transport, or perhaps even more so, in order to benefit low-income earners, gain better urban space and better reach the climate targets.
i-02a6739951f9341d-730	Madam President, I would like I note that Emma Wallrup refers to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's view that we should not be investing in the road. Here, however, I would like to point out that we need to do this; we also need to invest in our ways. Trains don't go everywhere. This week I was up in Vilhelmina and Dorotea, where the desire of everyone I met was to improve the bad roads that were available for important tourist destinations in the tourism industry and for transport that the rural industry needs. I myself come from Kosta, in the middle of the forest in Småland, and there the trains no longer go. They did that a long time ago. There the road is the only option. That is why I am so keen that we have an automotive industry that receives support and help to switch so that Sweden can manage to become the world's first fossil-free welfare country by electrifying the vehicle fleet with electric cars, by fuel change increase the interference or make sure to use biofuels. The car is too many people's only chance to get through. Then we will strengthen public transport, and we will do so with public transport in rural areas. We are doing it this summer with the possibility of free public transport for young people through a special effort that I know not least the Left Party has been keen to implement together with the government. Whether it be a national plan or a good strategy, I will be anxious that the efforts we make work throughout the country. I sometimes notice in the traffic debate that a lot is about how to find good traffic solutions in central Stockholm, Malmö or Gothenburg, and it is of course important because it is big challenges to find fossil-free transport and not least get better air in our urban environments. But if we are going to get the Swedish people to stop around the transformation that we are doing in Sweden and also in the countryside to feel that Sweden can maintain high ambitions for well-being and clear climate change, one must see the possibilities for this transformation throughout the country. That is one of the reasons why, in the last budget, we spent extra money on road maintenance for precisely smaller roads, the so-called pothole money. That is one of the reasons why I have been careful to take the Swedish Transport Administration's warning signals seriously and understand the importance of making efforts in the capillary road network, i.e. the smaller forest roads, at the end of the planning period, so that the standard does not deteriorate. It is therefore a question of a holistic approach. Public transport is outstanding when it comes to being able to transport very many and have good, flexible solutions. There, the state acts together with municipalities and regions to make the best possible solutions. Through urban environment agreements and other efforts from the government, we have strengthened this opportunity. But again, if it is to be possible and if legitimacy is to be felt throughout the country, then the efforts must also be made throughout the country. I am optimistic about the possibility of conversion. During this parliamentary term, we have taken clear steps to achieve the goal of becoming the world's first fossil-free welfare country. The collaboration that we Social Democrats have had with the Green Party in the government has led to major efforts on the climate during this term of office, and we have also had a well-functioning cooperation with the Green Party on the budget. I'm proud of that. When the debate on the traffic issue, with an environment with Trump or Le Pen, tends to disappear from a partly conscious mind, it gives hope to all those who see that there is a government here that takes the climate issue seriously, which shows that we can not only become the world's first fossil-free welfare country but can also make the permanent world exhibition that shows that with new technical solutions we can meet many of the challenges ahead.
i-02a6739951f9341d-738	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It sounds very laudable to be a permanent world exhibition for the climate. I really want to see climate technology in the future. The Left Party also takes great care of the trains in Norrland. I have been there myself and pressed for the night trains up to Jämtland, because it gives commuting possibilities far up in Norrland. When we are going to work on environmental policy, it is important to first work with the carrots to bring all of us voters on this vital issue. In Sweden, it is really the carrots first that are the smartest in this situation, and at the same time to make sure that the commuting possibilities to Norrland work well I think is very wise. We got to the night trains to Jämtland, which many use to travel up the far north. I was myself and debated high up in Norrland. It was not possible to get there by any other means than by air and taxi, to my great despair – I who especially do not like to travel by air. It is remarkable how little railway we have in Norrland. Here you could do a lot by investing in strengthening the Norrbotnia corridor and the Norrbotnia track, but also the Inland track with the cross tracks. Then one could relatively quickly get quite a lot of railway in Norrland. I hope that we will go that way more and more, because it is remarkable that we have a part of the country that is almost completely without rail where it is perhaps most needed. I think this is a significant signal that politics is quite egotistical, that those who sit in their positions may be more beneficial to their own areas. It's a lot of Stockholm and big cities, but you've forgotten too many parts of the country and too many people too long.
i-02a6739951f9341d-742	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Emma Wallrup, for the commitment! I think it's important. Emma Wallrup regretted that flights were the only option, but it is only to be realised that for many at times it will be the only option. When I visited the airport in Vilhelmina, they testified there about its importance to the region. In large parts of Sweden, domestic aviation is incredibly important for business but also for citizens to be able to get to Arlanda and further out into the world or down to Kastrup, for that matter. It is important, then, that we are clear about the change that aviation needs to make. It is, of course, a type of traffic that has not made the change that the other fleet or shipping has made. The airline tax is a clear signal that we cannot wait for the changeover. In the near future, we are putting in place an investigation into the biofuels for aviation. It will be led by Maria Wetterstrand. We have also set aside SEK 100 million to see how we can quickly reset. This is important, because aviation will continue to be needed in Sweden. However, we need to be clearer in the requirement for air travel as a transformer. It is not good enough to have 0.3% involvement in biofuels, but the ambition must be significantly higher. That is why we must take advantage of the possibilities of all the different modes of transport when designing the strategy for how Sweden will become a country that is changing. For this reason, I would like to end by highlighting something that I, as a small-timer, may be a little unaccustomed to highlight, namely shipping. There are great opportunities here. A very large part of our exports go on shipping, but much more could be done. It's climate smart, and it's easier to plan. There are great opportunities to strengthen Swedish shipping in the future – for important freight transport but also, of course, for tourism and passenger transport. We work actively from the government to strengthen shipping. It's going really well, and I'm glad.
