i-1b70e0ca8ec9a550-2	Madam President, I would like Mr Karlsson has asked me what I intend to do to ensure that the voices of the functional political movement are heard in the further formulation of the reform. May Karlsson has also asked if I am prepared to come up with an additional directive for the ongoing investigation into LSS in order to ensure the intention of the legislation and correct for the judgments that have fallen since 2007. On 3 May, the Government decided on an additional directive to the LSS investigation. We have now removed the requirements for savings that were previously contained in the directives. The proposals should not lead to an increase in the need for funds allocated compared to the current level. We made that change in order to give the investigator the right conditions to focus on creating clear, stable and sustainable legislation. Maj Karlsson wants to see an additional directive to the LSS investigation that will correct for judgments since 2007 and ensure the law's intentions. Let me be clear. The person in need of assistance or other assistance shall be entitled to it. The investigation directives state that the purpose of the mission is to create legislation that promotes equality in living conditions and full participation in society. The intention of the law is thus the starting point for the overall review of the investigation. This means that the investigator's mission already today covers the questions that Maj Karlsson wants to add as an additional directive. As Maj Karlsson points out, the law came into being in close cooperation with the disability movement. The first pilot project for assistance was the independent living movement, not the state, that started. Now that we're going to modernize the law, we need to hook our arm again. I have already promised my first day as a minister, and I have also started that dialogue. For me, it is self-evident that the government should cooperate with those most closely affected by the reform. It is about transparency and quality assurance. The disability movement is included in the reference of the LSS investigation - and expert group - and will, of course, be the referral body to the report when it comes. My assessment is that we will need an ambitious dialogue on this in order to present proposals for better regulation. I will also ensure that the issue of the reformed legislation is high on the agenda of all our discussion forums, such as expert advice and disability delegation. The Law on Support and Service (LSS) is a cornerstone of our welfare, a law of rights that has meant greater freedom and independence for many people. We need to modernise the law so that it works better, so that it becomes predictable for those who need it and so that it leads to the high objectives of independence and participation. The new legislation should be sustainable and cost effective in the long term. Nothing else is good enough; I have been clear about that since I took office as Minister.
i-1b70e0ca8ec9a550-6	Madam President, I would like LSS is a fine reform of freedom that has been and is extremely important. When it was introduced, it was a world-unique reform that gave people with the greatest needs the power to govern their own lives and participate in society on equal terms, which was also the intention of legislation. The law is characterised by empowerment and independence, and these principles have been crucial. LSS and personal assistance are at the heart of our common welfare society. It is about civil rights – that everyone should have the right to live as free individuals regardless of whether they have a disability, receive one tomorrow or follow the norm throughout their lives. It is with personal assistance that thousands of people can work, study, be politically active, form and take an equal share of responsibility in their families – doing things that are seen as self-evident in a life of freedom. It is something that was not a reality before personal assistance was introduced. It is a self-evident freedom that is now under threat. The fact that we in Sweden received the LSS reform is largely due to the functional political movement. With determination, insistent work and struggle, they pushed through the greatest reform of freedom in modern times. Today it is also they who are allowed to fight to keep it. Therefore, optimism grew when the Government announced at its entry that she would take plenty of time to meet the relevant stakeholders and seek broad agreements. It is in the functional political movement that the development of the reform is to be found. It should be said that some time has passed since I put this question to the Minister. I know you've been in contact with and met with a lot of people from the disability movement ever since. I have also heard that many people have experienced that the Minister has really listened, and I am very pleased about that. I also know that the movement in the meeting with you continued to sound the alarm about the consequences that the Supreme Administrative Court's judgments have had. Already when the first verdict fell in 2007, the movement began to protest. Since then, the erosion of legislation has continued, and the movement has raised its voices increasingly when more and more people have fallen out of the state assistance compensation and lost their rights in whole or in part. As the requirement of the movement is an adjustment of the law, I quite rightly called for an additional directive to ensure the intention of the legislation. Although the Government's response says important things that give hope in any sense, I still interpret it as not intending to meet our demand. I really don't understand why. This is one of the main demands that the movement pursues, knowing that the intentions of the law will not be ensured before this happens. To respond by saying that those in need of assistance should receive it is not a response to our demand. The problem is that the judges from 2007 onwards just limited who are actually deemed to be in need of assistance.
i-1b70e0ca8ec9a550-16	Madam President, I would like The investigation, as I said in my reply and as Mr Karlsson clearly explained, has not an explicit mission to specifically correct for individual judgments. I'll try to explain why. The intention of the LSS investigation is to achieve enhanced quality, greater equality and predictability of existing LSS interventions, which are part of current legislation. If equal living conditions and full participation in society are to be promoted, it is the intention of the law, and this is what the investigator should return to. We do not want to do so, but there is absolutely nothing to prevent the investigator from correcting in the report for judgments where it is considered necessary according to the intentions of the law. Nevertheless, I would like to emphasise that if we are to succeed, the investigator must have a broad mandate to achieve what is the intention of the law. We have no ambition to limit the investigator's mission. I would really like to emphasise that the investigator has a large and free mandate to bring about legislation that ensures the intentions of the law. It is good enough to have a great deal of commitment from both Maj Karlsson and many others in this House and in the disability movement. However, a great deal of work and responsibility will be required once the investigator comes up with his report. Then, together, we shall succeed in ensuring that we have legislation that responds to both the intentions that then existed and the challenges that we have seen in the meantime. I would like to take this opportunity to emphasise that we already saw during the last parliamentary term that there were judgments that were going to change in assistance in a way that, if I am going to be a little personal, I experienced as extremely frustrating when I was then sitting in the Social Affairs Committee. When the then government was called to committee, we had a good discussion. Many felt rather hesitant. However, I can see that the joint indignation of the committee did not lead to any initiative at all. Of course, it would have made it easier if the investigation had already been set up. Then we probably wouldn't be standing where we are today. Now there is an investigation that has a broad mandate, and I very much look forward to the investigator's proposal so that we can take this further. I am also pleased that no two-year review is now being carried out until we have new legislation.
i-1b70e0ca8ec9a550-23	Madam President, I would like The development we have seen of personal assistance has, as the Government says, taken place in the last ten years, and it is truly terrible. It is an attack on one of the greatest freedom reforms of our time, an attack that has intensified during this term of office. Today, the situation is so acute that the level of assistance granted is, if not non-existent, at least very, very low. In these four years alone, thousands of people have been hit very hard. We have spent the entire term of office using all the available means to get the government to act and to back down even with regard to its own decisions. In some cases we have had success. The regulations have been amended and new directives for the investigation have been added. We have jointly removed the directive on saving requirements for assistance. We are very proud of this. I will also say that I very much appreciate the Government's input into the matter. In fact, I think it sounds like the Government has an ambition to ensure the law. I do not, therefore, question in any way the intention of the Government – on the other hand, the intention of the Government. I am concerned about what decisions really mean. The fact that the government has chosen to remove the saving requirement for personal assistance is indeed a very important decision that we receive with great pleasure. The problem is that the Government then answers me, namely that the proposal should not lead to an increase in the need for funds allocated compared to the current level, but that it should in some way take place within the existing framework. Only between 2016 and 2017 the forecast from Försäkringskassan decreased by half a billion. Then I wonder: Is it the Government's ambition that the investigation should be based on levels after a time when the granting rate has fallen to 11.5%? In that case, I think we have big problems. I would therefore like the Government to clarify what you mean by the fact that the investigation should be based on the existing framework. It is also deeply worrying that we are not getting a new, clear directive for the long-awaited investigation. As the Government says, we have been running this for a long time, because we believe that the law must be adjusted to the judges. Of course, the law needs to be modernised and developed, but the basic intention must be the hub of that work. We feel that this is not possible if we do not first ensure that part. The Government says that our requirements were already covered in the investigation, because the aim is to create a law that promotes equal living conditions and full participation in society. But you can have very different views on how those particular goals can be met. For us, this is to be done by ensuring the reform. Is that also a promise from you? What I am concerned about is that the reason you do not want to meet the demand is that you know that it is a decision that will actually cost, that is to say that it is still de facto economy that will go ahead with people's needs. It is a concern that can be a little reinforced by the Government's response. That is why I wonder what it really means when you say that the legislation should be, in terms of costs, efficient.
i-1b70e0ca8ec9a550-32	Madam President, I would like I will try to respond to most of the questions. I would like to start by saying that it is absolutely a dilemma when we have both state and municipal assistance. It is complex, and getting on the right side of 20 hours of basic needs should not really be crucial in meeting the need for assistance for the individual. It should simply guarantee who is to take responsibility for carrying out, delivering and ensuring that assistance is provided. It is obvious that this is one of the questions that the investigator needs to provide good answers to: How to be assured of this? For the individual, as in any case, it is completely uninteresting who actually stands for the bill. Then I don't mean that it's uninteresting who's the principal-- misunderstand me right-- but it's about you not really being so interested in who the bill is, but what you want to be sure is that you get what you're entitled to and that you get your needs met. This is an important task, I would say, for the investigator in relation to the demarcation of the principals. I would also like to emphasise that there has been no saving requirement for personal assistance. In previous directives, there has been a requirement for proposals to be made on how to save. It's not there, and I'm very glad that's the case. I would also like to say that all investigations work within a framework. I myself cannot give an example in the near future where an investigation has a free hand to deliver and make proposals without any restrictions at all, but you simply have the resources you have and are expected to be able to make changes within the framework. Then, in many ways, the LSS legislation is a very special legislation even when it comes to funding. Rights legislation is not as easy to predict. I do not know all the figures in my head, but when the disability investigation was set up and when the LSS reform was decided, they tried to write forwards, because there is of course always an ambition to try to see what costs we will have because we will also ensure that we manage the funding. It's not that simple. But when it comes to legislation, what rights exist and how to regulate them, the investigator simply has the same conditions as any other investigation that should remain within the framework. I would also like to say that when the investigation is submitted, the referrals have been submitted and before a decision is taken, a political process takes place. Those of us who then participate in such work and want to contribute to long-term sustainable LSS legislation have, of course, together a responsibility to ensure that the law is taken into account. The investigator does not have a completely free hand, but simply has the same conditions as all other investigations. I would also like to say that I meet with a great many disability representatives, individuals, organisations and umbrella organisations, and they strengthen me, of course, in how important it is that we manage to do a review. I do not know what words to use not to worry the individual, but we shall ensure the legislation. That is absolutely both ambition and intent. But each individual and each organization you meet makes you realize how complex the issue is, and so it is important that it takes time. We do not intend to change any further directives. I believe and insist that if the investigator has a mission to promote equal conditions and freedom in everyday life, it means that he also has all the conditions and the means to correct judgments, or if he expresses himself in a different way. It should be coherent legislation that responds to the intentions of the law.
i-1b70e0ca8ec9a550-43	Madam President, I would like As the Government says, I too am aware that there are no free-handed investigations. The Government says that there have been no savings in this way in the area of personal assistance. On the other hand, the rate of rejection has increased so drastically that it has reduced costs very dramatically. What we are concerned about is when you say that we should be based on this financial framework and not on what preceded this disastrous situation. In fact, there is an essential difference. I fully agree with the Prime Minister: yes, one cannot have an investigation that has a completely free framework, but something really has happened here, and when you talk about an existing framework, it really raises concern. What are we supposed to start from? I really want to thank the Government for the answers. I think it has been a good dialogue, and this is really important; the Government is quite right in that. This is a very serious political issue which, quite rightly, arouses very strong feelings. It is about something as fundamental as everyone's right to live our lives as free citizens with the right to decide over ourselves. From our side, there is no prestige in this. This is no area to pick cheap political points on. However, the situation is alarming, and we must find a lasting and long-term solution, which I believe is also the ambition of the Government. I am very pleased to hear that the Government is opening up a broad dialogue in order to develop better regulation. We in the Left Party are quite ready to have that conversation with you, and I think it would have been worthy of a red-green government that, before the end of the term of office, we should begin cooperation to seriously secure the basic intention of one of the most important freedom reforms of our time.
i-1b70e0ca8ec9a550-50	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank Mr Karlsson both for the issue and for the tone of the debate. We all know how difficult it will be in the coming months for the elections. One thing is the discussions we can have in small circles, but it is more difficult to have a good discussion and dialogue in Parliament, in the media and so on. At least I have my own ambition to contribute to a tone that does not send any other signals, because it is clear that all those who need LSS and assistance are listening and also hearing whether there seems to be a way forward or whether the issue is being used as a bat in the debate. I myself intend to do my very best to help ensure that we have a good tone of conversation, and I hope and believe that we can begin a work that involves seeking politically broad solutions to a difficult and important future issue.
i-1b70e0ca8ec9a550-53	Madam President, I would like Tobias Billström has asked me the following questions: Sweden as a State, since its ratification almost 30 years ago, is required by international law to comply with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and courts and other authorities are obliged to interpret and apply, as far as possible, Swedish constitutions in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Despite strategic measures and despite continuous transformation, however, the rights deriving from the Convention have not been sufficiently reflected in decision-making processes concerning children. The assessments of the Child Rights Investigation reveal a number of shortcomings in the impact on the rights of the child and in a child rights-based approach, including the principle of the best interests of the child and the principle of the right of the child to express his or her views. On 15 March, the government therefore decided on a proposal to make the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law from 1 January 2020. The Convention on the Rights of the Child makes it clearer that courts and legal practitioners should take into account the rights arising from the Convention on the Rights of the Child when balancing and assessing decisions concerning children. Incorporation means that the child's role as a legal entity with its own specific rights is clarified and can thus be expected to contribute to a greater focus on the child's situations. It is also a way of creating a basis for a more child-right-based approach in all activities involving children and young people, where rights are seen from an overall perspective. However, in order for the Convention on the Rights of the Child to have an effective and effective impact on Swedish law, a further transposition of the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child into national law is also required. In addition, a combination of different measures such as guidance, training and coordination between different actors, such as authorities, municipalities and county councils, is required at different levels of society. The measures set out by the Government in the bill should be seen as a single package for the implementation of the Convention. I am convinced that these measures together create good conditions for satisfying the rights of the child in Sweden. I want to make it clear that the legislative power lies with Parliament. It is the Riksdag that makes our laws. The legislator shall continue to have primary responsibility for ensuring that domestic law is consistent with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, even after it has been incorporated by means of further transformation. The government sees these methods as mutually reinforcing and together as the most effective way of ensuring that the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Rights of the Child are implemented. In principle, incorporation does not constitute a new task for authorities and courts, since they are already required to interpret and apply the legislation in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child as far as possible. On the other hand, incorporation clarifies that legal practitioners must take into account the rights deriving from the Convention on the Rights of the Child when balancing and assessing decisions concerning children. The legal practitioners are also used, above all, to the influence of EU law and the ECHR for a long time to dealing with regulations designed differently from the traditional Swedish way with a relatively high degree of detailed regulation. In this context, I would like to make it clear that the Government does not believe that the issue of whether to incorporate the Convention on the Rights of the Child needs further analysis. The purpose of the recent government investigation, with the task of carrying out a survey to illustrate how Swedish legislation and practice comply with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, is not to examine the issue of incorporation, but rather to provide support in the further work on the transformation of the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in various areas of law. Through ratification, Sweden as a State has committed itself to ensuring that national legislation is in line with the Convention. Examinations of the conformity of Swedish legislation with the Convention have therefore been carried out several times in the past, for the first time in connection with the ratification of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in 1990. To answer the remaining question about the legal significance of kafalah, I would like to begin by emphasising that incorporating the Convention on the Rights of the Child does not mean giving children new rights. The fact that Swedish legislation does not conflict with the conventions ratified by Sweden is fundamental to the commitment it makes through ratification, whether it is incorporated or not. The rights recognised by the Convention on the Rights of the Child already apply today. Incorporation does not change this. I would also like to stress that the Convention must be read as a whole, not just article by article, and not just word by word. The Convention must also be interpreted in such a way as to give it a reasonable meaning within the framework of each national system. Article 20 entitles children deprived of their family environment to special protection and support from the State. In accordance with Article 20, States shall ensure alternative care for such a child in accordance with their national law. According to Swedish national legislation, we have detailed provisions for the placement of children, including in the Social Services Act. The article contains a reference to kafalah as an example of an investment form. Kafalah is not a form of placement according to our legislation. Article 20 does not require the introduction of new types of forms of investment in Sweden, which already exist under our national legislation.
i-1b70e0ca8ec9a550-64	Madam President, I would like The Chancellor of Justice, the Swedish National Court of Justice, the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office, the Swedish Police Authority, the Ombudsman for Justice, the Court of Appeal of Skåne and Blekinge and the Court of Appeal in Stockholm are some of the 30 referral bodies that reject the Government's proposal to incorporate the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. The Law Council also rejects the Government's proposal. The referral bodies believe that there is a risk that the proposal will weaken children's rights rather than strengthen them. In spite of this sharp criticism, going ahead with the proposal is irresponsible and, quite frankly, bad. Therefore, the Moderates and the Center Party have chosen not to support the Government's proposal but instead to propose that children's rights be strengthened in real terms and in accordance with Swedish legal tradition. In addition, we also want to clarify children's rights in the Constitution. The problem of making the entire Convention into Swedish law is well illustrated by the discussion that has arisen in connection with Article 20 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The article mentions, among other things, the possibility of placing a child according to kafalah, which is an Islam in a similar legal concept to adoption. It is a form of placement that we in Sweden do not use. Even if kafalah is not included in the parental code or in social legislation, it will have legal significance in Swedish law. However, the question of whether and in what cases Swedish courts and authorities should take Kafalah into account has not been analysed by the government at all. That's remarkable. According to a 2006 French Cour de cassation ruling, the French court can no longer decide on adoption when a child has previously been taken into custody under kafalah. We also risk getting this legal development in Sweden if the government publisher becomes a reality. In the 2008 Swedish Adoption Investigation, SOU 2009:61, the investigator discusses this particular French case and the requirements set out in Article 20 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. On the basis of the arguments put forward there, it is very possible that the legal situation in Sweden may be affected in certain adoption cases, for example, if Article 20 is made Swedish law. This is a consequence that the government should have taken into account before considering that the Convention on the Rights of the Child should be incorporated in its entirety. It is very much unclear what consequences the incorporation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and Kafalah will have in Swedish law. It is clear, however, that rules that are directly laid down in the legislative text must be complied with by our authorities and by our courts. Will it mean an opportunity or a right to invoke kafalah instead of adoption or placement in foster homes? Will this mean that kafalah has legal significance in individual cases in Sweden? We don't know that. We Moderates are not prepared to risk this. Children's rights are too important for that. Therefore, I would like to ask the Government today in this House the following: how can the Government guarantee that kafalah will not be applied now that the Government has given kafalah legal significance in Swedish law?
i-1b70e0ca8ec9a550-71	Madam President, I would like On 13 June, there will be a major debate on the government proposal and Parliament's report on the Convention on the Rights of the Child. I am convinced that there we will further shift and reverse the attitude of different parties to the fact that the Convention on the Rights of the Child is being made law. Of course, it is possible to stand aside and argue that the work is difficult and challenging. Making the Convention on the Rights of the Child a law involves some difficulties. How should it be interpreted relatively Swedish law? The government has made the assessment together with children's rights organisations and, as it looks, a majority of the Swedish parliament that this is possible and is the way we should go to ensure that children's rights are really taken into account and that children are seen as subjects in processes that affect them themselves. It is a matter of continuing work on transformation in addition to the incorporation of the Convention into Swedish law. It is also about developing maps and guides for the authorities, courts and others involved. I must say that it surprises me that a party like the Moderates and a representative like Tobias Billström claim that the incorporation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child into law, which was ratified almost 30 years ago, would mean some form of Islam in so-called right. It would be a question of the day that the Swedish Parliament chooses to decide on a new form of family home placement, that the Swedish Parliament would choose to do something completely separate from what is today with a well-prepared and well-known social services legislation. I shall quote Article 20 so that it is recorded in the Minutes: a child who has been temporarily or permanently deprived of his or her family environment or who, for his or her own good, cannot be allowed to remain in this environment shall be entitled to special protection and assistance from the State. It is the right guaranteed by the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The next item is the need for States Parties to ensure, in accordance with their national legislation, alternative care for such a child. We'll do that. Sweden does so and has done so for a long time. The final point is that such care may include: include, where necessary, various examples of how this could look like, placement in foster homes, kafalah in Islamic law, adoption or, if necessary, placement in appropriate child-care institutions. In considering solutions, due account shall be taken of the desirability of continuity in a child's upbringing and of the child's ethnic, religious, cultural and linguistic background. ..................................................... I would really like to emphasise that the Convention should be read as a whole and interpreted in such a way as to give it a reasonable meaning within the framework of each national system. But we are not introducing new rights, and Sweden has already taken care of Article 20 with a well-known and concrete social services law. Speaking of a convention being incorporated and becoming a law, I would like to conclude by saying what the consequences are. The 1996 Hague Convention on Jurisdiction, Applicable Law, Recognition, Enforcement and Cooperation in matters of Parental Responsibility and Measures for the Protection of Children refers to the concept of kafalah. The Convention has been in force since 2013 as a Swedish law. It was the former government, which included Tobias Billström, that proposed in a bill to Parliament 2012 that the 1996 Hague Convention should become part of Swedish legislation by incorporation. I do not know whether Tobias Billström has discovered any difference with regard to Islamic law in Sweden since the Hague Convention was incorporated, but it is not my view that this is what we are facing. On the contrary, we should strengthen children's rights to be subjects and to be listened to. Their perspective shall be taken into account in matters which concern them.
i-1b70e0ca8ec9a550-78	Madam President, I would like I should like to thank the Minister for her comments here, but I must say that it is a little strange that she is highlighting the Hague Convention. I would not do that if I were Minister Hallengren, because the Hague Convention lays down only a consultation obligation between states on cases where kafalah is being considered. It is therefore not the case that kafalah exists as a legal institute in Swedish law today. However, introducing the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law means that kafalah is introduced as a new legal institute in Swedish law. For example, a court would have to decide whether a placement through kafalah should be legally accepted. In the next step, Minister Hallengren, Swedish courts would have to determine the meaning of kafalah, and that means interpreting Islamic law. All Islamic law relates in one way or another to the Qur'an, which means that Swedish courts would also have to do so. Does Minister Hallengren consider this to be in line with Swedish legal tradition? I don't think so. I hope not, but I will start after this debate to doubt it. Madam President, I would like The problem is that an incorporation makes the text of the convention into Swedish law without being able to reword or modify it according to Swedish conditions and Swedish legal tradition. Now, of course, the government's lack of respect for the legislative tool is nothing new. The Law Council has never rejected as many proposals as under this government. Under the alliance government, three proposals per year were rejected on average. In the first three months of this year alone, twice as many proposals have been rejected. That, Madam President, says quite a lot about the government's disrespect for the law. Swedish Television has described it as a Swedish version of the Chainsaw Massacre. I think it is important that we focus on Article 20 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It states that consideration should be given to the child's ethnic, religious, cultural and linguistic background. Thus, when an authority or court is to consider whether the child is to be adopted or placed in foster homes or kafalah, the Convention requires that ethnicity, culture and religion be taken into account. It opens the way for children of different backgrounds and religions to be treated differently. Courts and authorities may then need to consider kafalah for certain children who have ethnic, religious or cultural domiciles where kafalah is applied. We Moderates are not prepared to allow this. On the other hand, if you are to believe Lena Hallengren's statements here today, the Social Democrats seem prepared to do so. But we are not prepared to do so. Swedish law must apply equally to everyone, regardless of culture or religion. And if you do not want kafalah to be given legal significance in Sweden, why do you propose that the term be introduced into Swedish law? The legislative tool is the ultimate tool available to us as elected political representatives. It shall be used to achieve important policy objectives. Using it for things that you do not want to achieve is not only very strange but also risks undermining respect for the law. That, Madam President, is extremely serious and another consequence of this ill-considered proposal to incorporate the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law. Let me conclude with a question to Minister Hallengren. If you do not want to introduce kafalah, why have you not removed it from the proposal? Why does the government propose something like that, if one is to believe the Government, does not want to become a reality? I believe that the House deserves an answer from the Government and the Government here today.
i-1b70e0ca8ec9a550-86	Madam President, I would like There is a great responsibility on the part of Tobias Billström and the Moderates, who are so greatly misleading in a debate about making the Convention on the Rights of the Child a law and ensuring that children's rights are further strengthened. I have some respect for referring to referrals which have views shared by one's own party, but to be misleading and claiming that certain words or sentences could be removed from a convention which we ratified 30 years ago is quite absurd to me. A child who has been temporarily or permanently deprived of his or her family environment or who, for his or her own good, cannot be allowed to remain in that environment shall be entitled to special protection and assistance from the State. This is what Swedish legislation already regulates through social services legislation. It can be through family homes, adoptions or even care. This right does not require the introduction of new forms of investment in Sweden. We already have detailed provisions to ensure the alternatives for placing children under our national legislation. I think these are strong accusations that Tobias Billström is making against all child rights organisations – that they would like to introduce some kind of Islamic law. I think it responds rather to a debate where it feels that the elections are not far from here. I hope that the debate on 13 June will become more factual and more serious and that we will not mix apples and pears together in the way that Tobias Billström is doing now. The Convention on the Rights of the Child is to be incorporated into Swedish law. This is the view of the government and probably also the majority of the Swedish parliament. But that does not mean that we are introducing new forms of investment. Don't act like it!
i-1b70e0ca8ec9a550-90	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, I have to say that I am even more confused about the government's position now than I was before this interpellation debate. I can only conclude that the government is proposing that kafalah be given legal importance in Sweden, even though it does not want kafalah to be applied. I didn't say I intended to remove it. I asked the question whether the Government intends to remove the kafalah concept and was given the answer that she has not. This is not taking children's rights seriously. If, on the other hand, the Government reads the counter-proposal from the Moderates and the Center Party on the proposal for incorporation, she sees that we want to go further than the government. We propose that children's rights be strengthened in the Constitution. We want to include Articles 2, 3 and 6 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in the form of government. These can be described as comprehensive provisions – they contain basic starting points on the child's right to his or her life and on non-discrimination, as well as emphasising the child's best interests. Our proposal guarantees legal certainty, democratic accountability and a better impact on children's rights – but not the kafalah concept in Swedish law. Now that we have declared so clearly that we say no to this, no to the weakening of children's rights and no to moving away from our Swedish legal tradition, but yes to children's rights, I would like to end by asking the Government why you do not honour Swedish legal tradition by transforming the most important parts of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and by taking these into account where they make a real difference: in the laws concerning children's rights but also in our constitution. This would have been an alternative. But the government has chosen a different path, and it is on the shoulders of Minister Hallengren and the government this bad proposal rests – not on those parties who have other, more sensible and more thought-out proposals.
i-1b70e0ca8ec9a550-93	Madam President, I would like In 1990, Sweden was one of the first countries in the world to ratify the Convention on the Rights of the Child. I think it honours Sweden, not only that we have ratified a convention, but also that we are doing successful work on children's rights both nationally and internationally. Several of the Nordic countries we usually compare with and many countries in the rest of Europe have also made the Convention on the Rights of the Child into law in addition to further transformation. We will always work to ensure that Swedish legislation meets the conventions that exist in the best way possible, but to ensure that we reach all the way through, we will also make the Convention on the Rights of the Child into law. I am very proud that next week we will probably not only be debating but also deciding that the Convention on the Rights of the Child will become law. I hope that we will then have a debate and a discussion in which we talk about children's rights – how important it is for children's perspectives to emerge – and that we talk about what rights are guaranteed with the Convention on the Rights of the Child becoming law. We will not introduce new forms of investment, Tobias Billström. You know this very well, but we will have to give another opportunity to try to sort it out. It is clear that the forms of investment we have chosen in Sweden are established by the Swedish Parliament. If anyone in the Swedish Parliament wants to introduce new forms of investment, which I have never heard of, this question may also be examined by the Swedish Parliament.
i-1b70e0ca8ec9a550-96	Madam President, I would like Erik Slottner has asked me about the increase in funding of SEK 50 million during the grant 3:1 Special gender equality measures in the Government's spring change budget for 2018 are limited to women's and women's shelters only or if the funds can also be allocated to on-call staff working towards men who are victims of violence in close relationships. Furthermore, Slottner has asked me what initiatives I am prepared to take to promote the development of the work of on-call workers working towards men who are victims of violence in close relations and what measures I intend to take to ensure that funds allocated to various forms of shelter do not undermine municipal responsibility for victims of violence. I share the picture Erik Slottner conveys. Support for men who are victims of violence in close relationships is an important development area, and the Government has made it clear in the national strategy to prevent and combat men's violence against women 2017 – 2026 that the strategy also applies to men's and boys' exposure to, among other things, violence committed by relatives. The increase of SEK 50 million in the Government's spring change budget for 2018 is based on an agreement with the Left Party and, like the ongoing initiative, refers only to women's and girls' shelters. Some non-profit women's shelters also accept violent men. According to the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare 2016, this applies to an estimated 14 percent of the country's non-profit-driven shelter. Organisations that primarily work for men who are victims of violence in close relationships may receive other state grants. The so-called development funds Socialstyrelsen benefits 2016 – 2018 can be applied for by such organisations, as well as grants under the regulation on state grants to certain organisations in the social field, etc. Organisations developing victim activities targeted at LGBT persons who have been victims of violence in close relationships may also receive special state grants from the Agency. The aim of the government's civil society policy is to improve civil society conditions as part of democracy. However, victim support is a municipal responsibility under the Social Services Act. Consequently, municipalities are responsible for financing sheltered housing for the woman or man in need of the operation. Under the current Regulation on state grants to women's and girls' helpers, the grants may not be used to cover such costs. These organisations can never replace the municipal commitment. In other words, state aid to civil society is a complementary measure to improve support for violent women, men and children. The Government has also taken many initiatives to support the development of the work of municipalities and county councils in this area. In order for women's and girls' shelters and other organisations with victim support activities to operate in the long term and in a way that does not undermine public responsibility, the Ministry of Social Affairs has initiated a review of the state's contribution to such organisations. A starting point is that the individual woman or man, girl or boy who is directly or indirectly exposed to violence by relatives should have access to legally secure support and protection of good quality. The work includes analysing all state grants that non-profit organisations can apply for in this area and considering whether they can be distributed in a more comprehensive way. The review is expected to be completed in October 2018. The Government also appointed the report on a strengthened children's rights perspective for children in sheltered housing in 2016, with the aim of clarifying the municipalities' responsibility for the operation of sheltered housing. The law of the investigation is currently being prepared within the R Egeringskansliet.
i-1b70e0ca8ec9a550-104	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lena Hallengren, for your answer! I would like to start by saying that it is a pleasant reunion in this House. We had debates in Kalmar City Council 20 years ago, and it was not possible to imagine that the next debate would take place in this House. But life takes its path. I have made an interpellation about violence in close relationships, especially regarding men who are victims of this type of violence. Violence in close relationships is a major social problem and often a hidden problem because many vulnerable people try to hide the signs of violence as far as possible. That is why I think it is good that the issue is being raised more and more as time passes, and also that financial support has increased to associations working to protect victims of violence. However, we often persist in the notion that the victim is always a woman and the perpetrator always a man. But violence may look different. Men are also subjected to violence in close relationships, sometimes by a female partner and sometimes by a male. A woman may also be subjected to violence by a female partner. So it is not always a woman who is the victim and a man who is the perpetrator. According to a study by the Crime Prevention Council, even as many men as women are victims of violence in close relationships. These are often different types of violence, and fatal violence is more common among women exposed. But this does not mean that men are never killed. According to an article I took note of, it is estimated that about five men each year fall victim to deadly violence in close relationships. Yet there is so little talk about this phenomenon. This may not be surprising. The norm is not that men are beaten. The Government's gender equality goals do not help us directly either, as one of the goals is formulated as the end of men's violence against women. When you talk constantly about men's violence against women, it reinforces the norm that the victim is always a woman and the perpetrator is always a man. Yet we know that it can be exactly the opposite. In its reply, the Government confirms that the increased support of SEK 50 million only goes to girls' and women's shelters, but at the same time points out that some of these hotlines also receive boys and men who are victims of violence. But to be honest, how are we ever going to reach all the men who are subjected to violence by their partners if they are referred to women's and women's shelters? I am convinced that we need to update our approach in this area. Many men are victims of violence, both psychologically and physically, by both a female and a male partner. This must be seen and acknowledged and not swept under the carpet. Support for these men needs to be strengthened, and receptions and shelters need to be opened. Today there is no such thing. A strategy for achieving these men must be developed, as we can see that the number of darkness is very large, as well as the shame of those affected. Unfortunately, I do not see much in the Minister's response that suggests a few steps in this direction, and I regret that.
i-1b70e0ca8ec9a550-112	Madam President, I would like I would really like to say thank you, Erik Slottner, for this interpellation. This is one of the opportunities to highlight the importance of something that really is a problem and a challenge in society. I would just like to briefly mention statistics that I myself have taken note of. When the Swedish Crime Prevention Council conducted a national security survey in 2016, 3 per cent of men between 16 and 79 reported that they had been assaulted by relatives. The corresponding figure for women in the same age group was 40 per cent. Violence against men in close relationships is also rarer and repeated. It doesn't mean it never is, but it's less common. The National Board of Health and Welfare regularly investigates certain cases of deadly violence against adults in close relationships. Of a total of 52 victims in 2012 – 2017, 49 were women and 3 were men. I am certainly not saying this in order to ignore the individual who is affected, whether it is a man or a woman, but that is a little bit the explanation for the title and that the national strategy against men's violence against women is called as it does. However, as I mentioned in my answer, men's violence against women is a rewrite of violence in close relationships. It has been an ambition on the part of the government to clarify what it is often about. There has been a criticism in the past that we are a little hiding the fact that men use violence in close relationships as a means of power, very often against women. As far as girls' and women's shelters are concerned, it is, as I said, 14% who also accept men. The dilemma and what I had reason to get into especially after Erik Slottner's question is how many on call we have that only turn to men. In fact, we couldn't find any such callers. This is also about stimulating, encouraging and ensuring that there are incentives for organisations in this case, if hotlines are to be run on a voluntary basis. Municipalities always have a responsibility for victims of crime, whether the victim is a man or a woman or whether there is a non-profit women's shelter in place or not. But the non-profit women's shelters have been working for decades to meet all the women with children who are subjected to violence, very often by men in a relationship. Again: There are resources to seek for non-profit organisations that want to run or possibly expand a men's emergency activity. I would welcome the development of this. But during the time we wait, it is also positive that we have girls' and women's shelters that make sure to take responsibility whether it is a man or a woman who suffers violence in a close relationship.
i-1b70e0ca8ec9a550-119	Madam President, I would like I think that depends in a lot on how you ask the question. I know that different studies say different things. But the interesting thing about the Crime Prevention Council's investigation was that it shows that many men are also affected. I think there are many people who do not think about this at all. It is not in your imagination that a man can be subjected to violence in a close relationship. That is why I think it was good that that study came. But I know that there are other studies that show other things, and I think that depends, among other things, on how you ask the question. As I said, women are more often subjected to repeated violence and more often to violence leading to death. Then you might wonder, ‘ If you are subjected to mental abuse, which many men may be caused by a female partner, who then leads to suicide, has the beating resulted in death? ' Of course, it depends on how you look at it, but if you include such cases, the deaths will increase. The Minister writes in reply to my interpellation that the strategy to combat men's violence against women also includes violence against men. This is also clear in Lena Hallengren's reply to this House. But then I have to question why you don't change the name of the whole thing. Linguistics also leads the idea somewhere. If we talk constantly about men's violence against women, it is easy to forget, both in vocabulary and in thought, that violence can also affect men. I think it would be much better if we talked in equality policy about violence in close relationship and honour-related violence, rather than constantly repeating the phrase If the support is as gender neutral as the minister wants to give the impression of, one might wonder why the government earmarked SEK 2 million for the LGBTQ group of people who have been subjected to violence in close relationships. This indicates that the support is not as comprehensive as it seems. The debate only talks about men's violence against women. This is also done in written documents. The 50 million-dollar subsidy goes to girls' and women's shelters. But at the end of the day, the Minister seems to think that this support goes to men, and I think there are many who do not follow that line of reasoning. We have to admit that the step for a violent man to seek support from a girls' or women's shelter is quite long, and the thresholds are quite high. I'm convinced of that. We also know that there is a great lack of on-call staff working with men. I believe, however, that this is precisely because of the language we use. There is not really a will to deal with the problem. Many men do not dare to report or tell if they are exposed. Akillesjoursen is located here in the Stockholm area. Jouren has received a small contribution from the National Board of Health and Welfare, but that contribution was only SEK 17 000. It is impossible to conduct a serious business with so little money. The reality is that the knowledge of the group of men who are victims of violence in close relationship is small, and the shame is great among many of the victims. Not even being believed is a widespread problem, and on several occasions victims' helpers have also noted that society does not have the necessary preparedness to help this group, for example by offering shelter. Confidence in the judiciary is also significantly lower among victims in this group when compared with women who suffer from this type of violence or with men who suffer other types of violence. I would really like to emphasise – I think this is important to say – that I and the Christian Democrats support the increased efforts to combat violence against women. It's a very good job. In Stockholm, where I am active in municipal politics, we as a party have supported the increased support for girls' and women's shelters. I do not want to put groups against groups, but we are pushing that we also need to step up our efforts to help those men who are victims of violence in close relationship, including by opening reception centres and providing support in relation to shelters.
i-1b70e0ca8ec9a550-129	Madam President, I would like This is an interpellation debate that is exceptionally fruitful, may I say. I hope it is also for those who listen. In the past, we used the expression, "violence in a close relationship." Then there was a criticism, and I was one of those who shared it, because it felt as if we were trying to sweep a problem under the carpet as soon as possible. We did not dare to say that it was actually about men beating their women – they beat their wives and their respective and subjected both women and children to violence that was repeated and gross. One way to face that criticism was to actually tell what happened inside the four walls of the home. You wouldn't sweep it under the carpet. At a much earlier stage, it was almost doubtful whether society should engage in something that happened in the home. In my view, the development of policy in this area has been positive: we are making visible the problems that exist and the women that are vulnerable. What Erik Slottner is saying is perhaps about a similar work that needs to be done in the case of men. The forces there have not been as strong. I also took note of the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's open comparisons of social services. Eighty-six per cent of municipalities offered shelter with aid decisions for violent men, while 98 per cent offered it to women. So there is a difference, even if there are more than you might think are offering it. This is, of course, something that needs to be taken into account in various ways. But I would like to emphasise once again that municipalities have a responsibility for individuals who are victims of crime, whether they are men, women, adults, children or the elderly. That's the responsibility of a municipality. When it comes to on-calls, I would like to say once again that the reason why the government has made major reinforcements to women's and women's shelters during the term of office is that we have seen it as urgent. There are an increasing number of women's shelters around the country that take on an extremely large and important responsibility. They have been doing so for a long time, and they are doing so not least when we are going to implement the national strategy to combat men's violence against women. I would like to emphasise that there is no reason to see a contradiction here, but it has been a conscious choice not to try to pretend to be anything but that violence in close relationships in many ways is about men's violence against women. Then we see that there is also violence in which men are exposed, but I do not think it is a failure that we have made visible what violence in relationships in many cases is about. I believe that it has strengthened both the work of the municipalities and the target and also the women who are exposed.
i-1b70e0ca8ec9a550-136	Madam President, I would like I began by saying that I think it is good that the debate in recent years has been strengthened in this area. It is good that the knowledge of helping women who are victims of violence has increased and that financial support for girls' and women's shelters and shelters has increased. I think it's very good. But I would like to have a language that is inclusive, because I think it can cause men who have been subjected to violence to dare to tell, acknowledge and report what they have been subjected to and therefore dare to ask for the help of society. The government says we don't want to sweep the problem under the carpet. But that is what people tend to do when they talk so little about this group that is being subjected to violence. It may be men who are subjected to violence from a female partner, but it may also be men who are subjected to violence from a male partner. You also forget the LGBT perspective when you only talk about men's violence against women. There are many, both men and women, in same-sex relationships that are subjected to violence by their partners. I think it is very important that this issue should also be raised. Much of this is the responsibility of municipalities. I am fully aware of this, and that is also why I have raised the issue at the municipal political level in Stockholm. At the same time, however, the government can contribute through incentives, strategies, seminars and increased knowledge base to the municipalities intensify their work. Many municipalities are also a little too small to carry out their own work on this. Perhaps you need to join forces throughout the region and cooperate between municipalities to offer shelters and reception centres if the individual municipality is too small. This, I believe, is a work that can be developed considerably.
i-1b70e0ca8ec9a550-139	Madam President, I would like As we continue to have a great deal of work to do in terms of men's violence against women, we undoubtedly have more to do in the case of men who are victims of violence, regardless of the type of relationship. During the term of office there have been quite large additions of resources to municipalities and women's and women's shelters. However, I would like to emphasise that we really see that men's violence against women is not just about women being exposed. Thus, even if it becomes unclear, the definition of men's violence against women includes men who are victims of violence, regardless of the relationship. I would like to emphasise that there has been an enormous need to make these additions and to strengthen women's and girls' shelters, which are still not everywhere. There are still municipalities that have neither their own nor a nearby women's shelter, but need to encourage this in various ways. Let us hope that it is a way forward to also ensure that we can make visible men who are victims of violence in close relationships. I think that is very important. I would also like to emphasise what Erik Slottner himself said, that we are not putting the groups against each other. At the same time, we know that a majority of those exposed to the really serious and repeated violence have been women. That has been the reason for the efforts made so far. But I would like to conclude by saying that nothing precludes efforts for the future.
i-1b70e0ca8ec9a550-142	Madam President, I would like Carl Schlyter has asked me what I intend to do to ensure that the holdings owned by Sveaskog which are suitable for protection can be disposed of, and whether the company has a public policy that publishes all the data it has as a basis for a factual debate where different opinions on their protection value exist. Carl Schlyter has also asked me what measures I intend to take to increase transparency in Sveaskog. I would like to begin by saying that the Council has a clear ambition that protected forests should not be harvested but should be preserved either through formal protection or voluntary provisions. The Government's forestry policy is based on two equal objectives: the production target and the environmental objective. I have recently responded to another interpellation on the same theme, and I would therefore like to emphasise that the government still has a high level of ambition in terms of sustainable entrepreneurship and has high expectations of state-owned companies acting exemplaryly and operating in a way that promotes sustainable development. This means, for example, acting responsibly and transparently and working to comply with international guidelines that apply, among other things, to environmental considerations. Sveaskog's natural value and logging assessments are an operational responsibility for the company's board and management, and I assume that they comply with applicable national laws and the international agreements and agreements that Sweden has signed, as well as all FSC's principles and criteria. As far as transparency is concerned, I would like to point out that Sveaskog from many aspects is a company that is open and accounts for its operations in a clear way. An important part of the sustainability work carried out within the company with state ownership is based on stakeholder dialogues. Sveaskog's work with sustainable entrepreneurship is also recurring in corporate governance and the dialogue between the company and the owner. Sveaskog is now also working on transparency in conservation assessments, and according to the information I have received, the company will soon start publishing data from natural value inventories. They start with Västerbotten, and after evaluation the experiment may be extended to other parts of the country. Finally, I would like to point out that an open and constructive dialogue, in which all parties show respect for each other's roles and missions, is the best solution for continuing to find a common way forward.
i-1b70e0ca8ec9a550-149	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Industry for his answer. I am also pleased with the work of the government. By this week, the government has announced four new Natura 2000 sites and adjustments to 52 others, and Åsnen National Park has been inaugurated. That's very good. It is good when coherent areas are protected. The problem is that Sveaskog fell in 10,000 places. Sveaskog's work to destroy biodiversity is thus much faster than the government's work to defend it. Then it is not enough for the Minister to assume that Sveaskog is doing his job and that you follow the FSC. FSC had criticism on four points in its last report on Sveaskog. It is not good enough to evaluate the principle of public access; it must be implemented. Why this issue has become so important and why I want the Minister to actually ensure that Sveaskog fulfils his social mission is because there are so many reports that they are not doing so now. It is time for the Minister to get to grips with this. It is not a government of ministers that I am asking for, but it is that the right control structures are in place, that the right principles of public access are in place throughout Sweden and that the FSC certification is fully complied with. Let me be a little more specific in my question. The Swedish National Audit Office issued a report in 2017 stating that the internal audit for Sveaskog was missing, that there was no independent risk analysis and that the Board has decided not to have an internal audit. Will the Minister demand that this be done? With regard to the mission goal, a report from the Swedish National Audit Office 2018 came that one lacks a mission target. Since environmental and production targets should be equal, it is now an imbalance, where Sveaskog has economic goals but mission goals are lacking. Will the Minister make sure it is in place soon? Then there are still problems. Even if you have stakeholder dialogues, there is often an experience that you have not listened or that there is not enough publicity around them. For example, the citizens of Tjappsåive had a dialogue, but then Sveaskog fell anyway where they benefited most from the land. Sveaskog is currently working in many of its 37 ecoparks in Götaland. There is a risk that they will have felled all the forest worthy of protection within ten years if they continue at the current pace of entering the older areas. There are therefore serious shortcomings in how Sveaskog fulfils the State's objective of having these two interests. That is why I am now asking the Minister to address the problems of Sveaskog and to ensure that the objectives are put on an equal footing in reality, in internal procedures and in auditing. I have also heard that many logging planners risk getting yellow cards and even being threatened with dismissal if they do not meet the production targets resulting from the profit requirement. Then there is no time for them to make proper natural value inventories before it is time for the league, because in that case they do not reach their goals and risk personal problems with their employment. This type of steering mechanism is not at all appropriate if we want a balance between production objectives and environmental objectives.
i-1b70e0ca8ec9a550-159	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking Carl Schlyter for the interpellation, because this is an important theme. However, I do not, because I think that his speech was well-intentioned. Sveaskog is Sweden's largest forest owner. It is also a company that has very high environmental ambitions. The whole forest policy is based on two objectives, but Sveaskog has de facto set itself the goal of being a leader in environmental considerations and aims to allocate 20% of its holdings to promote biodiversity. Nature conservation assessments are carried out for all fellings. It is true that there have also been problems. I'll start with that – seriously. FSC had serious criticism that Sveaskog took very seriously, and we took it very seriously on our part. At the time they made an action programme that they presented in 2017. FSC's auditors considered this action programme to be correct, and they removed the criticism that existed against Sveaskog. I think Sveaskog has had some challenges and problems, but you work seriously. They are also working on a dialogue, not least with the Swedish Nature Conservation Association, which has led to a public publication in Västerbotten on Monday. From 14 May, the methods of assessment of natural values are available. So it is becoming more and more open. But if you are to be serious, why have you not gone out with all this information directly of? There is also an issue of health and safety at work in this area. When it has become clear who at Sveaskog has done the natural value assessment, it has been addressed quite serious criticism of that person. Some non-profit organizations have hung that person out. It has become a discussion about an employee's assessment rather than about Sveaskog. I believe that a company like Sveaskog must be able to conduct this kind of discussion and find a system that makes it possible to become more transparent and transparent about this, but at the same time not end up in a situation where employees are exposed to decisions made by the company, for example. So I think we need to see that this is connected. In essence, however, I have no other view than that the production target and the demand for yield from Sveaskog that exists, and which this Parliament has supported, should go hand in hand with the high environmental ambitions we have for state companies in general and for Sveaskog in particular. I believe that Sveaskog has set goals that are high and binding. This means that it will be constantly reviewed – and will be reviewed – if you follow the objectives you have for your business. I still think that Sveaskog is doing a great deal in this area and that there is even more transparency on the issue we are discussing now, also as a result of the dialogue that has been held with some environmental organisations. I think that this is a positive development, which is welcome to continue.
i-1b70e0ca8ec9a550-166	Madam President, I would like How interesting that something happened right after my interpellation! I don't know if there's any connection, but it's nice that things happen. It is a very good news the Minister is now giving here that you start in Västerbotten on Monday, but I do not understand why you have to evaluate before moving on. What the Minister says about employees having problems when their name is on a report I have not heard before, but I think everyone I know in the environmental movement is more interested in the content than in the name of the one who has done the content. If it is necessary to delete the name, it does not matter. What everyone I have contact with wants is to have access to the information that forms the basis for logging notifications. The criticism from the logging planners that I referred to comes from people who work at Sveaskog and who feel a stress – which is also a work environment issue – that they have demands to have such high harvesting requirements, including because of the profit requirement, that there is no time to make the natural value assessments that they have to make. Then there are also declassifications of areas – for unknown reasons, since many of the reports are not published. That is why it is so important, if we are to have this dialogue, that everything is published before felling. As I said, it is not who has done it, but what is happening is what is important, and I hope that we can agree that everyone would benefit from the natural value assessments being made public as soon as possible and that we ensure that they always exist. The best way to do that is to make them public. Because we have serious problems – in fact. The Minister may not be able to thank me for the question, but I think that many people in Sweden would be delighted with my question if it led to Sveaskog actually protecting the areas of national interest in outdoor life. We can look at Götaland. There are twelve municipalities in Småland that have less than 1 percent protected forest. In many of these municipalities, Sveaskog owns a lot of land. In many municipalities, Sveaskog has ecoparks. That we now fell them, and that Sveaskog in order to reach the yield targets goes in and fell into edge zones with very high natural values, is serious. To publish everything so that we can have a good dialogue about which places there is the most safe nature is therefore good, but what I don't think I got an answer to is the question whether the Minister intends to ensure that Sveaskog gets a mission goal so that the ambition to be a leader in the field of nature conservation is clearly followed up and followed. I also wonder whether the Minister believes that Sveaskog should be called upon to have an internal auditor so that they themselves can detect shortcomings in the governance structure. It's about whether we want Sveaskog to deliver its community mission, and that's what everyone wants. It is very valuable for all Swedes to have access to and be able to experience nature. We won't want to save nature unless you name what you want to protect. It has a great value for Sweden, and for the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's work with Naturum and the like, that people know what they see in the forest. I have had a much greater desire to save a relic goat, a pine ticka, a cauliflower fungus or a three-toed woodpecker after learning the name of them and can recognize them when I see them in the forest. I hope that all Swedes can have that experience forever.
i-1b70e0ca8ec9a550-173	Madam President, I would like The forest is important, for many different reasons. One might say that the forest may never have been more central than today. Not only does the forest represent a large part of our nature and environment, it is not only a place for recreation and biodiversity, but it is also one of the prerequisites for Sweden to cope with the transformation from a fossil-dependent society to a fossil-free society. Forests are also an important economic factor in Sweden. In fact, the Swedish forest industry is Sweden's largest net exporter. 70 000 people have jobs linked to the forest industry, all over Sweden. Their jobs depend on the forest industry producing. That is why we in Sweden have chosen to have a forestry policy with two equal goals: a production target and an environmental objective. That is also why Sveaskog has decided to set aside 20 percent of the area used for conservation, and that is why all areas are assessed in terms of whether they meet the requirements that are imposed or not. In many cases where there have been comments, a second opinion has been taken in. It's not discussed as often. After a second opinion you have sometimes changed your mind – from being able to harvest to not being able to fell. Case by case, then, we are going through this, and from Monday we will also start publishing the natural value assessments. They will be published in one place, but the ambition is to move on to several areas once you have seen that it works and is a good system. I'm going to say something about the ecoparks anyway, because the name sounds like no logging at all is going to happen there. Schlyter says a little bit: Look, Sveaskog removes ecoparks! The very point of the ecopark was that it was a safe area, but that it was assessed that after all, it can be done in ecoparks. That was the whole point of ecoparks: to take extra consideration and to be extra careful in those areas, because there may be areas that are more worthy of protection. With regard to the point that Sveaskog is making fellings in ecoparks, I would therefore like to say: that was a little bit the point of ecoparks. They'd have more attention, and you'd look at them more, but there'd be a way to make a cut-off there. But, again: It is important to make the right assessments, including from Sveaskog. There are many examples that go around and that Schlyter highlights in the debate, where it is believed that Sveaskog has not taken its responsibility. On the other hand, there are areas where Sveaskog, after control by the authorities and the auditing actors in the certification system, has been given the right to make fellings but Sveaskog is still criticised for a felling that has been planned or done. It is therefore not easy for Sveaskog to always make everyone happy when even authorities and certification organisations say that it is okay to fell, but Sveaskog still gets criticism for it. I believe that this is a continuous discussion that we will carry on over time. Where's the balance? What are the protected environments? How do you narrow it down? How close can you make the felling? To be honest, I believe, as Mrs Schlyter says, that openness and transparency are a way forward. It is about building understanding of each other's views and making decisions on a better basis over time. I therefore think it is a good development that Sveaskog has begun. It has started to publish and has been open with what method it uses, and it will also discuss in dialogue with the environmental movement how to increase transparency over time. I think it's a good way. However, I think it is also important to say that the Riksdag has set targets for Sveaskog, which also means a production target. We need the forest raw material both for exports and jobs and for the green transition in society.
i-1b70e0ca8ec9a550-180	Madam President, I would like Let me first state where the Minister and I agree. I also believe in the bioeconomy. I think perhaps something less than the government on biofuels, which cut down forests to make fuel, but there are many other valuable applications. We can replace the chemical industry, the packaging industry and long-term products, and we can build houses made of wood. All this is fantastically good – carbon dioxide is being tied to long-term products now. However, I do not think that the balance is really achieved. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply but to make the same slight adjustment as the Minister made earlier, namely: I have not received an answer to the question of mission objectives and internal auditor. I would like it in the last post. I will also make it clear that when I spoke about the ecoparks, I actually meant the pieces in the ecoparks in Götaland that have very high natural values. It is they who are now being harvested at a rate that means that they will be gone in ten years' time. I do not mean cutting down 45-year-old ontorta populations, but I mean precisely the protective pieces in the ecopark. That's what I'm criticising. I believe that the Minister has a responsibility to ensure that this balance, on which we agree, is achieved. If it cannot be achieved with the current instruments available to the government, I think that one should take a look at whether the yield requirement does not actually lead to such pressure on logging officers, planners and Sveaskog that Sveaskog has difficulty in being the market leader for environmental protection. We cannot allow this balance to fall on the wrong side. Then it is better that we first ensure the protection of biodiversity, which is the goal that, according to the Stockholm Resilience Centre, has been exceeded most – even more than the climate issue. We must not fail there.
i-1b70e0ca8ec9a550-185	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by discussing what we agree on: the importance of forests both for biodiversity and for the Swedish economy. I may not be as interested in setting low economic targets for Sveaskog. I think it is important that we make challenging demands on all our companies, but with the restriction that they should meet their environmental objectives. They have an explicit ambition in the industry to be a leader in this. They also set aside a lot of land in areas where they are not supposed to work with production, and they are becoming increasingly transparent. I believe that Sveaskog is a very important and strategic company for the state, but one must have the right balance on the requirements for them. Nor should we underestimate the investments that are now being made in connection with this. Sometimes we don't talk about it at all. In fact, we usually boast that the forest industry is large and has many employees, but if we look at last year's investment rate, we see that there were record investments in the forest industry. The whole green transition we are talking about is happening now. In fact, the forest industry accounted for 25 per cent of private investments in Sweden. This is quite an unprecedented figure, and it shows that the forest industry is in a very positive trend with large investments and great ambitions for green conversion. The forest industry is also becoming increasingly aware of how to protect soil and what environments to set aside in order for biodiversity to start growing again over time. We have had problems in this area, and I agree with the description of the problem that we must take these issues seriously. However, I cannot say that everything that Sveaskog does is wrong. It is a large state-owned company that has great ambitions and is also the market leader in these matters.
i-1b70e0ca8ec9a550-192	Madam President, I would like Boriana Åberg has asked me whether I and the government intend to ensure that new players on the market are also allowed to sell tickets via SJ online, i.e. via sj.se and SJ's app, thus meeting the needs of rail passengers. SJ AB operates in a liberalised market together with other competing train operators. As I answered Boriana Åberg in a previous parliamentary question, there is no obstacle for SJ AB to enter into cooperation on ticket booking with other operators. However, it is an operational issue and an assessment that the company's board and management should make – not I as Minister for Enterprise and Innovation. The question has previously been examined by the Swedish Competition Authority and it was found that it is up to SJ AB itself to decide who has access to the company's sales channels. MTR has now notified SJ AB to the Swedish Competition Authority, and the Swedish Competition Authority is therefore re-investigating the issue. I welcome the fact that the Swedish Competition Authority is investigating the matter, and I assume that SJ AB will take the necessary measures to comply with the Swedish Competition Authority's decision once the investigation is completed. I do not intend to take any action on this issue.
i-1b70e0ca8ec9a550-196	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply, but I must say that I am disappointed by the Minister's one-eyed view of a very complex situation. The Minister makes it easy for himself by referring to SJ's management and disclaiming all responsibility. It is clear that SJ's management acts rationally from its own perspective, namely to keep competitors away. The operational management and the board of directors have the task of delivering as high a return as possible to the owner, who in this case is the State. The question must thus be decided at another level – the political level – by the government. It is the government's task to create the conditions for well-functioning competition. Or more precisely: It is the task of Minister of Economic Affairs Damberg to be responsible for the state companies. SJ is not just any company. For over 100 years they have had a monopoly on the market. In Sweden, SJ remains a synonym for rail transport, despite the liberalisation in 2010. Most travellers use sj.se when booking tickets, as this sales channel was created during the monopoly period and is well-established.
i-1b70e0ca8ec9a550-201	The very specific question to which I want answers today is why two companies, MTR Express and Saga Rail, do not have access to this sales channel. SJ online sells tickets for the Öresund train, Blue Train, Snall Train and for the regional trains but not for MTR Express and Saga Rail. You don't have to be conspiratorial in order to understand that SJ wants to remove these companies from the market. Does the government really want the same thing? It can be said that competition so far, as expected, has been good for travellers. Since MTR Express started operating the Stockholm route – Gothenburg there have been more departures a week, and the number of passengers has increased by as much as 27 per cent. Consumers' positive impressions of the new train operators are further reflected in the Swedish Quality Index for 2017. The study in the category of passenger transport produced the following results for train operators: MTR Express received 74,6 and SJ received 57,8 in the index. Shortly after liberalisation, consumers were allowed to enjoy a price reduction of 38% on the Stockholm – Gothenburg route. The Competition Authority also states in its report Competition in Sweden that MTR Express's entry from a traveler's perspective has led to a more varied offer, better service, reduced fares and shorter travel time.
i-1b70e0ca8ec9a550-206	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the interpellation! This is an issue that is not entirely new. The last time this question was examined was by the Swedish Competition Authority in 2014. At that time, the Swedish Competition Authority concluded that SJ did not make mistakes that have its own sales channels, just like all other companies have, and that it is up to SJ to enter into cooperation with different actors, just like all other companies in a competitive market. I'm not getting the Moderates' argument right here. Are there more companies that should be required to use their sales channels on behalf of other companies? Is there such a list? Should state-owned companies have the right to use private companies' sales channels? Now this is going to be tested, and I shall have no idea what is happening today. After all, the Competition Authority is testing whether it is competition on equal terms or not, and these tests are to be carried out. What has happened is that the opportunity for companies to reach out, not least via apps and digital channels, has, if possible, been further facilitated since 2014. Not least the mobile phones are a great channel for buying tickets. It is not just sj.se that is a sales channel, but what really increases is the mobile apps. The cost of building apps and sales channels has decreased dramatically over time. We'll see what the Competition Authority finds out. Then you can have a different view of this and not just talk about these two companies, but that it would be wise from a perspective that all bola g force s to be part of some kind of sales platform. There can be political discussion that all transport companies should be on one platform. There is, of course, a competitive platform for ticket sales: the Resrobot of co-traffic. But I do not think that so many people have heard of it and that it is a major channel today, but it is individual companies that are building their sales channels today. If you want to give SJ a new community assignment, that is to say that SJ will manage the sales channels for all companies in Sweden that operate on the railways, you can decide on this and give the state company an increased responsibility to provide sales channels for everyone who operates rail services in Sweden. You can do that, but I haven't heard that the Moderates have so far championed that idea. The economic objectives of SJ were previously set by the previous bourgeois government, and we apply the same economic objectives to SJ. I don't know if you've thought this through all the way. But I welcome the fact that there is an investigation now. I also know that SJ as a company is looking at more collaborations with different actors, not least for the international trips. It has been rather tricky to see how to book out in Europe. SJ now makes links for the travel operators that make it possible to travel to Europe but also looks at the possibility of cooperation with several operators around Europe. There is therefore a positive trend over time. But so far, the Swedish Competition Authority has not concluded that SJ AB will be the sales channel for all other private companies, since it has invested money and effort to build its own sales channel.
i-1b70e0ca8ec9a550-217	Madam President, I would like I want to correct myself. When I talked about sj.se, I also meant the app or SJ online. The State owns companies for a public benefit purpose, and it is not only the owner's right but also the owner's obligation to steer in that direction. Yes, opening a monopoly market to competition is a complex process. And I am happy to admit that it was not done quite right when the market was liberalised in 2010. However, since it is a complex process, efforts are made in several steps. And now it's time for the Minister for Economic Affairs to take the next step so that SJ opens its online sales to all those interested who meet the requirements, or you lift this integrated sales platform. The Minister can learn from the liberalisation of the pharmacy market, where Apoteket AB not only had a monopoly but also owned the infrastructure for the supply of medicines. At that time, the government removed these functions from Apoteket AB and thus created a level playing field for all competing chains. Something similar is now expected of the Minister of Economic Affairs. Since the Minister for Economic Affairs is the representative of SJ's owner, the state, and the representative of the government, which has an overall responsibility for creating good conditions for competition in a functioning market, expectations of the Minister for Economic Affairs are high. SJ's behaviour to make it more difficult for competitors must be stopped immediately. Examples can be taken from other countries, such as Norway and Finland. Now that Norway is liberalising long-distance rail services, the Norwegian state-owned company is being separated from its online platform. In fact, the Norwegians have used the Swedish failure of competition neutrality as an inspiration for how not to do it. We in Parliament have decided to implement the EU's fourth railway package to open the Swedish market to new players. But how will these new players establish themselves? A basic condition is that they have access to the existing sales platform sj.se and the app. If the Minister thinks that we should not have an open rail market, it is better that the Minister admits it instead of constantly referring to SJ. This government has made transport by car more difficult by increasing petrol and diesel prices and indexing them and has made air transport more difficult by introducing air tax. This autumn, we are introducing mileage taxes on freight transport. Only the train journeys so far seem to have been spared. And now the Minister refuses to contribute to the creation of a level playing field. I wonder if the Minister will reflect on what will happen if MTR Express and Saga Rail choose to close down and leave the Swedish market. Does the Minister think it will be better or worse for travellers? The only correct thing is to decide on an open and non-discriminatory sales channel.
i-1b70e0ca8ec9a550-227	Madam President, I would like I think it is incredibly important to see that MTR has also had a very successful trip, not least when it comes to the Stockholm – Gothenburg route. In a relatively short time, they have managed to take a market share of 20 percent. The latest advertisement for the company shows that the sale of tickets for travel in July and August is 107 per cent higher than it was in 2017. This indicates a certain positive development. I guess they and other private train companies act in Sweden because it is profitable and there are customers who are interested in travelling by train. My responsibility as owner minister of SJ is to ensure that SJ develops as well as possible. What is fun is that SJ also had a positive development, also on the Stockholm – Gothenburg route. There has also been an increase, just as MTR has done. In fact, more people take the train than ever before. This has resulted in SJ today being a stronger company financially. The biggest investments are made in the company's long history. You've never made such a big investment in your 160-year history as you are doing right now. It invests a total of 9 billion over six years in its fleet of vehicles, of which 3 1⁄2 billion to update high-speed trains that roll out across the country. We have also clarified SJ's mission to connect to the transport policy objectives, because we see a value in more people taking the train and that we thus manage the climate issue in a better way. There SJ becomes a very important player, but there are also other actors. Now a legal process is underway where the Swedish Competition Authority will look again at this issue. Then it would be inappropriate for me to have too definite views. My only message is that SJ must comply with the Competition Authority's decision. If the Competition Authority concludes that SJ has a dominant position in sales channels, they must comply with it. It's obvious to me. However, as owner minister, I cannot tell the company that you should not try to build your own sales channel and try to attract more people to ride SJ trains. It would be directly wrong for me to do so. Exactly how the liberalisation of the market took place, the Moderates know better than we do, because you have also had strong views on this during the journey. I find it interesting to look at what is happening in our neighbouring countries. It is interesting to see if there can be more platforms where different companies co-operate, so that it becomes easier to book tickets. But maybe it should be done in a neutral way so that all companies can enter these platforms because you profit from it. However, it is difficult to see that companies would not be allowed to have their own sales channels alongside them. This reduces the possibility for companies to act in the market, which is characterised by competition and where SJ is one of several companies.
i-1b70e0ca8ec9a550-234	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Minister acknowledges that competition on the Stockholm line – Gothenburg has also lifted SJ. It is true that MTR has been very successful, especially because it offers much better service. When the trains stood still in West Sweden a few weeks ago, MTR's passengers were picked up by buses while SJ's passengers remained on the platform. It has cost MTR a lot to market. But it is a company that has financial opportunities while Saga Rail is a small company that runs with old trains and whose idea is to offer service, for example that you can take bikes on the train, which you do not get on SJ's train on the same route. It is clear that competition both boosts supply and contributes to the achievement of transport policy objectives. It is wrong that the Minister constantly ducks and moves the responsibility elsewhere. As the owner of the fully dominant operator in the market, SJ, the government and in particular the Minister of Economic Affairs have a clear responsibility to deal with this issue and of course a unique opportunity to as owner go in and steer in the desired direction in order to achieve the goals the owner considers important beyond the strict economic objective of return. If you are not prepared to exercise your ownership in this respect, there is no reason whatsoever for state ownership in companies such as SJ.
i-1b70e0ca8ec9a550-239	Madam President, I would like The last line was pretty revealing. The principal view of the Moderates is that most state companies should be privatised. I have read your motion carefully, Boriana Åberg, and you say that the companies that do not have a designated social responsibility should be privatised. I think you should be open-minded if you have plans to privatise even more companies in the state portfolio. It has not gone so well so far; you have not managed the state companies well enough financially. We have turned it around, and now the state companies are doing well. They pay dividends to the state and make big investments in the Sweden that we want to work. I welcome the fact that there are more companies on the market. I will ensure that SJ complies with the Swedish Competition Authority's decision if it is concluded that SJ may not have its own sales channel in the rail industry in Sweden, although almost all other industries have their own sales channels. If that happens, I'm going to stick to it, and the company has to do it. I also welcome the fact that SJ as a company works even more with cooperation with different actors so that it will be easier and smoother to take the train and reach our transport policy and environmental goals.
