i-72d5f359f24b419a-5	Madam President, I would like Helena Bouveng has asked me whether, in view of the massive criticism that has been levelled at the Tax Agency's proposal for an exit tax, I intend to close it. Jörgen Warborn has asked me whether I intend to proceed with the proposal for an exit tax. According to the tax policy guidelines adopted by the Riksdag in spring 2015, tax policy will contribute, among other things, to good conditions for entrepreneurship and investment in Sweden. The guiding principle for tax policy is also that citizens and businesses should have a high level of confidence in the tax system. High confidence requires, among other things, that tax rules be designed in such a way as to limit the scope for tax planning. To ensure taxation in Sweden of capital gains that have been reworked here, the so-called ten-year rule currently exists. However, it has been shown that the tax agreements with certain countries make it possible to avoid taxation in whole or in part under the 10-year rule in connection with relocation from Sweden. This has also been highlighted by the Swedish National Audit Office in a survey in 2010, which pointed out that an alternative to renegotiating the agreements was to review the possibility of introducing more general rules to prevent such arrangements. The then Minister of Finance also admitted in an interpellation debate in 2011 that there are problems with the 10-year rule and that in many cases it has a limited effect. Furthermore, the then Minister of Finance said that it is a problem to evade Swedish taxation when the profits have been raised in Sweden. The then Minister of Finance also said that this is an important issue and that the government has an ambition to find solutions to the difficulties. The Swedish Tax Agency's proposal to replace the ten-year rule with exit tax aims to ensure that capital gains earned in Sweden can be taxed here, even if the natural person who owns the earnings-bearing assets has moved out and become a limited taxpayer or has been resident for tax purposes in another country when the value increase is realised. I share the view that the 10-year rule does not work the way it was intended when it was introduced and therefore needs to be modernised. There are many opportunities to ensure that capital gains are taxed in the same way for everyone, regardless of whether you live in Sweden or choose to move from here. The IRS has presented a proposal, but there are many other examples to look at. There are a number of countries that have different forms of exodus taxation. Examples include Norway, Denmark, Germany, France, Spain, Austria and the Netherlands. If the Government chooses to continue working on the proposal, the Ministry of Finance will conduct a thorough analysis of the impact of the proposal on the working conditions, competitiveness and conditions of the companies in general. The views expressed by various stakeholders on the referral of the proposal are very valuable. I would also like to make it clear that I will not contribute to the introduction of rules that make it impossible for either generational shifts or for business to develop their activities abroad.
i-72d5f359f24b419a-10	Madam President, I would like In her reply, Magdalena Andersson says that according to the tax policy guidelines adopted by the Riksdag in spring 2015, the policy will, among other things, contribute to good conditions for entrepreneurship and investment in Sweden. The guiding principle for tax policy is also that citizens and businesses should have a high level of confidence in the tax system. I can definitely sign that. The purpose of the exit tax is to reduce tax planning, which is commendable. It is crucial for our jointly funded welfare that everyone does their own thing and pays the tax to be paid. A number of measures are now being implemented internationally that make tax evasion and aggressive tax planning more difficult without threatening jobs and growth. But this proposal hits hard on almost all Swedish entrepreneurs who act outside Sweden. Sweden, like a small export-dependent country, is dependent on the world and not the other way around. The fact that this comprehensive tax proposal has been on the table without any thought being given to the consequences for Sweden's entrepreneurs and the business environment seems incredible. These are unacceptable consequences not least for our family-owned companies. Madam President, I would like The Minister of Finance further says in her written reply that she will not contribute to the introduction of rules that make it difficult for either generational shifts or business to develop their business abroad. But how can the Minister of Finance even think of sending such a proposal for a referral? It is a proposal prepared by the Swedish Tax Agency in close dialogue with the Ministry of Finance. The Swedish Tax Agency's legal investigator Åsa Windrot Thell says in Dagens i ndustri on Monday 12 February that no analysis of how the proposal affects companies, entrepreneurs and the Swedish business community has been made: We have not looked at the consequences for companies. It may be a flaw; I can agree with that. In other words, we have a government that has its own authority put forward comprehensive tax proposals that affect almost all export-dependent companies, not least SMEs, entirely without impact assessments for those it concerns. These are consequences that can be fatal. Does the Minister of Finance believe that the tax authority has the expertise to present comprehensive tax proposals that can contribute to good conditions for entrepreneurship and investment in Sweden – everything according to the tax policy guidelines that we adopted in the Riksdag in spring 2015?
i-72d5f359f24b419a-17	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister for his response to the interpellation. If you look at it from an entrepreneurial perspective, the Exit Tax has created a lot of concern among Swedish companies in Sweden. What you may be focusing most on is the fact that you may have to pay the tax before you have sold shares in your company, that is, before you have money to pay the tax with. This may mean that you have to borrow money or, at worst, sell the company or parts of the company to be able to pay the tax. This, in turn, has upset many in business. There is talk of a financial wall being built around Sweden. It is not only that it is difficult to move out of Sweden. This can also lead entrepreneurs to hesitate to establish themselves in Sweden. This is therefore a proposal which is aimed precisely at entrepreneurs, one might say, and which puts growth and jobs at risk of long-term threat in Sweden. This is, of course, very unfortunate, because we know that four out of five jobs created in Sweden are created precisely by small businesses. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say something about the impact assessment in this case. That is how Helena Bouveng has just pointed out. The Swedish Tax Agency has produced this proposal, and the Government and the Minister have chosen to refer it. What is clear is that there is no impact statement at all on how it hits entrepreneurs. I have had several debates with representatives of the government on inadequate impact assessments in all possible forms in the past, but this actually takes the price as the worst proposal in terms of impact assessments. Consequences are important for us, who make decisions in this House, to know how they affect companies, for example, in terms of administrative costs and a number of other proposals. Making a consistency description is not something you can choose to do or not; this is a regulation, and it is quite clear what things to cover in a consistency statement. There are major shortcomings here. In this case, there is not even an impact statement, which is extremely remarkable. I would like to hear the Minister comment on that. The Board of Directors is a body under the Swedish Agency for Growth, i.e. an authority under the Government, and recently the Council presented its annual summary on impact assessments. It can be said that overall it has improved slightly, but it is still very low figures. The impact assessments are generally very bad, which means that we do not have sufficient basis for decision in this House. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Finance, Magdalena Andersson's own department, is the department that is the worst in the class among all who send impact assessments or investigations to the Council. Only 8 out of 23 proposals have been accepted. It is a clear IG to the Minister and the Ministry of Finance in this area. My question will be: does the Minister of Finance think that the processing process has been appropriate in terms of impact assessments in the case of tax on exit? Will we see the Ministry of Finance handling bill like this in the future?
i-72d5f359f24b419a-26	Madam President, I would like Helena Bouveng asks if the Swedish Tax Agency has the competence to produce complicated legislation. It is my assessment that there is a lot of tax law expertise at the Swedish Tax Agency, and it is not uncommon for the Swedish Tax Agency to come up with complex legislative proposals. Then, of course, it is up to the Ministry of Finance to process and use or not to use them. But there is therefore a great deal of tax law competence at the Swedish Tax Agency. Jörgen Warborn asks if the preparation process has been good or satisfactory. Then it is important to say that the processing process is not yet completed but just started, which I was clear about in my interpellation response. Of course, the Government would not present a proposal to the Riksdag without a thorough impact assessment. Jörgen Warborn says that when the Riksdag makes decisions a statement of the consequences is needed, and in my interpellation response I said that if it is the case that the government chooses to proceed with the proposal, one should of course make a comprehensive impact statement. I have a question for Helena Bouveng and Jörgen Warborn: The proposal has been prepared by the Swedish Tax Agency in view of the fact that the ten-year rule does not really work as intended. The idea of the ten-year rule is that capital gains that have been raised in Sweden will be taxed in Sweden. That is one of the principles we have in the legislation. My predecessor, Anders Borg, also supported this principle and said that it is problematic how it works today. Therefore, I just wonder if the Moderates still believe that it is problematic that the ten-year rule does not work and that capital gains that have been worked up in Sweden should be taxed in Sweden. It does not really sound like that when you say that it is so extremely problematic if there is no possibility for entrepreneurs to move profits that they have worked up in Sweden and estimate for them.
i-72d5f359f24b419a-31	Madam President, I would like There may certainly be a need to review the 10-year rule. However, the proposal that is now before us is completely impracticable and simply toss into the trash can. My question to the Minister for Finance was not whether the Swedish Tax Agency is good at presenting comprehensive tax proposals but whether the Swedish Tax Agency is a competent authority when it comes to presenting tax proposals that contribute to good conditions for entrepreneurship and investment in Sweden. It's something completely different. Madam President, I would like Criticism has been massive. Let me quote some reactions published in Dagens i ndustri on 11 February 2018. Maria Rankka, CEO of the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce: This is a destructive proposal that makes it more difficult to attract international talent. Johan Andersson, CEO of Mellby Gård: One tries to build a financial Berlin wall around Sweden by forcing foreign heirs home and through a penalty tax if one moves out. Carola Lemne, CEO of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise: The proposal has come out in a completely hair-traveling way, and it will lead us back to a system that existed with the old inheritance tax. Carl Bennet, entrepreneur and industrialist: The tax would damage long-term business development in this country. This will make world-class knowledge environments fewer and smaller in Sweden. I could have made the list longer. These are representatives who all in different ways have broad and good competence to ensure that our business community, our entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs can grow and that generational changes can happen in a good way – representatives of whom I am convinced also have an understanding of how the welfare country of Sweden depends on tax revenues. Is it not reasonable, then, that such representatives are involved in drafting tax proposals that are good for Sweden, for companies and for Sweden's welfare country? Why send out a proposal for a referral that is completely sifted by these? This proposal sends out signals that are perceived as anything but that we have a government that believes that our export-dependent country needs more global companies and not less.
i-72d5f359f24b419a-40	Madam President, I would like On the question from the Minister of Finance about the ten-year rule, I would like to agree with Helena Bouveng that there may be reason to review it. In my constituency in Halland there is a company called Eleiko. It has also been rewritten in this context in the newspaper Dagens i ndustri recently. Eleiko is a company currently owned by a woman who has children who are also active in the company. As a result of this, she has felt that they must make a change of generation before the bill becomes a reality. The woman who owns the company has children living abroad. In the event that she would die before a change of generation could take place and it would be a matter of inheritance for the company, the proposal would tax the children and tax them differently depending on where they live. It is therefore a very unfortunate proposal, and if a proper description of the consequences had been drawn up from the outset, this would have been found and could have been dealt with. So this is something that has caused great uncertainty and great concern at the entrepreneurial level, and uncertainty and concern are never good for the investment climate. I would like to mention two quotes that have come in the consultation process and also a quote from the Finance Minister himself. The first is from the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, which says this: We reject the proposal, which sends negative signals to the detriment of entrepreneurship, investment and jobs. When it became clear that the Tax Agency has not even looked at the business impact assessments, the Finance Minister should have withdrawn the proposal, given the concerns raised by the proposal, not least for family entrepreneurs. The next quote comes from the Swedish Trade and Industry Tax Delegation, which in its referrals said: a implementation of the proposal would in many cases make generational shifts in small businesses impossible, hinder the supply of skills for Swedish companies, increase the administrative burden and lead to reduced predictability. ..................................................... My last quote comes from the Minister of Finance himself. It is part of her written reply to the interpellation: ..................................................... Then, of course, the follow-up question is: why has the Minister of Finance chosen to refer the proposal? I had hoped that when the Tax Agency made the proposal, the Minister would have included it as an input into a processing process. You shouldn't have referred it right away. It has caused anxiety. We have understood that the government, at least in part, supports the proposal and wants to move on with it. If one had calmed down a little and put in place a proper investigation, one would surely eventually have had a better basis, and the worry would not have arisen. During the first round, I asked a question that I did not receive an answer to: Will the Ministry of Finance handle legislative proposals in this way in the future? As the Minister of Finance does not wish to contribute to proposals that make it difficult for generational shifts or for business to develop activities abroad, I would like to ask the following question: what is the concern of the Minister for Finance himself with the proposal?
i-72d5f359f24b419a-52	Madam President, I would like I'll answer two questions. The first question was why a proposal for a referral was sent out. It's like the thing about sending out questions for a referral, that is to get comments. You don't know if proposals will be cut if you don't send them out for a referral. It is, like the whole purpose and part of the review process that the Government is obliged to carry out under the Constitution before proposals are submitted to the Riksdag. Will the Ministry of Finance handle proposals in this way in future? Yes, according to the Constitution, the government is obliged to have an orderly review process. Sending suggestions for referrals is one of the things that the government will of course continue to do – otherwise you KU-notify me instead. Then it was a question of whether the Tax Agency is competent to put forward proposals that create good conditions for jobs and entrepreneurship. The answer to that question is yes. I am a little surprised that Helena Bouveng is asking the question at all. There are 10,000 employees at the Swedish Tax Agency who go to work every day to provide good service to citizens and businesses in the country. They have worked out many different legislative proposals for tax changes that have benefited both jobs and entrepreneurship as well as all residents of Sweden. The Swedish Tax Agency is a modern service organization that does a fantastic job. All the 10,000 employees are worthy of credit for that work. Helena Bouveng quoted someone who had written that the proposal is a Berlin Wall. I think this is an unfortunate way of expressing oneself. This is a tax proposal to tax profits made in Sweden. To compare this with the Berlin Wall, which closed up half the continent of Europe, where people suffered under the dictatorship of communism, where people were oppressed, is not appropriate. Now it wasn't Helena Bouveng who said this, but you chose to quote it. You choose to repeat this very unfortunate expression. I hope it will not happen again because it is disrespectful to all the millions of people who suffered under the Eastern European dictatorship.
i-72d5f359f24b419a-58	Madam President, I would like However, I can only be struck by the fact that we have a finance minister who is sending out proposals where the cuts cannot be anticipated. I agree with the Minister for Finance that we have a good and functioning tax administration, but I do not believe that the Tax Agency is the best authority to put forward proposals that affect our entrepreneurial Sweden. Madam President, I would like During this term of office, a wide range of proposals have been made by the Social Democrats and the Green Party, often backed up by the Left Party, which impairs the conditions for entrepreneurship and job creation in Sweden. These are increased taxes under the 3:12 rules, air tax, halved RUT deductions, plans to abolish freedom of choice in the welfare sector and now an exit tax. This tax damages both entrepreneurship and the business environment. Unfortunately, Stefan Lövven's and Magdalena Andersson's eagerness to make it harder and worse for entrepreneurs does not seem to know any limit. Madam President, I would like It's sad. I meet many entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs who testify – regardless of the colour of the government – that there has been a lot of good work done to ensure that Sweden's entrepreneurs have reasonable opportunities to operate both in Sweden and outside Sweden. Former S-governments have realised that without companies Sweden stays and that a well-functioning business sector provides jobs, growth and good welfare. Unfortunately, that insight no longer seems to exist. That insight has the Alliance. That is why we reject the current proposal for an exit tax, and so should the Minister for Finance.
i-72d5f359f24b419a-63	Madam President, I would like The government is pursuing an anti-business line that risks threatening long-term growth and jobs. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise measures the business environment regularly – and has done so for a long period of time. Not since we started measuring at national level have we seen a worse result for the business environment than at present. You measure several different things, and the attitude of entrepreneurs weighs heavily. Swedish companies are asked directly, and Swedish entrepreneurs are therefore critical of the government's policy right now. When I debate the matter with representatives of the Government, the Minister for Finance or the Minister for Economic Affairs, I usually get two basic answers. One answer is to show international measurements and how nice it is for Sweden. Of course it is, and it has been so long-term. On some parameters Sweden is strengthened, and in some Sweden is weakened. But in the long term it looks good in the international rankings. But this does not deny that Swedish companies today are concerned about what the rankings will look like in the future. Another counter-argument I hear is that the key figures are good for Sweden. Unemployment is falling, but not in all groups. For people born abroad, these are high figures, but unemployment is generally lower. We can see that exports celebrate success. All of this means that companies make good money, and then they shouldn't be critical at the moment – but they are. This is a dangerous line. The business climate is getting worse in a boom. We should take the opportunity to implement good reforms that strengthen the business environment rather than the other way round. Can we get a clear answer from the Minister for Finance that the exit tax proposal will be thrown into the trash can? Or is a moderate-led alliance government the only way to guarantee this?
i-72d5f359f24b419a-69	Madam President, I would like We from the Ministry of Finance will of course receive all the answers to the referrals that come in, and then the government will take a position on the matter. That is what the preparation process looks like in the Government Office. I share the view of the interpellants that it is extremely important that Sweden has a good business climate. Therefore, it is so good that Sweden in many rankings, just as Jörgen Warborn said, has strengthened itself in terms of the business climate. The Swedish business climate is moving forward, not least in the area of public finances, where Sweden in the World Economic Forum's ranking has risen 30 places compared to when Jörgen Warborn's party was in government position. When I ask entrepreneurs what problems they see, they usually answer that they find it difficult to find workers with the right skills, that if they find workers with the right skills, they need a place to live and that better infrastructure is needed. In all three areas, the government has extensive efforts. We've expanded adult education. A 20% increase in government-funded adult education is the result of the work of this parliamentary term, and it is precisely in order for companies to find the right skills. We have carried out a historically large investment in the infrastructure. There we are now working on exactly what that money will do. There is a lot of investment in infrastructure. In addition, we are investing heavily in housing construction, and it has also been shown that we had a record housing building last year. We also see that since this government took office, there are 250 000 more people going to work every day. The majority of them do so in the business world, so there is obviously some spirit of the future in Swedish business – although it doesn't always sound like that when you listen to moderate members of parliament.
