i-f9cde360f649f191-3	Mr President, I would like to Today we will be dealing with a proposal to amend the driving licence law, a legislative amendment which is a prerequisite for Sweden to fulfil its obligations under the European Parliament and Council Directive, the so-called Third Driving Licence Directive. I support the committee's proposal on this issue. I don't think it's very complicated in that part. This is a natural consequence of our membership of the European Union and, not least, an improvement. In fact, I intended to focus primarily on the other issues that we are also dealing with in the same report. Firstly, it concerns the government's handling of Parliament's announcement on the introduction of alco-boms in border ports. It is an issue which has been dealt with for a longer period by the Transport Committee and which has been followed by the committee with great interest from both blocs. It has also been handled very carefully with preparation and other things. Now this is ready for introduction. In the 2018 budget proposal, the Government has allocated 63 million to investments and 15 million to increased operating costs during the period 2018– 2020. The Finnish Transport Agency has been given a clear mandate: to introduce these facilities. It will take place gradually. At least one installation shall be operational by 1 July 2018, i.e. this summer. The entire mission shall be reported to the Government on 31 December 2020. This is an issue that I think we in committee have perhaps been naive about. We have believed and expected it to go faster than it has done. We should remember that many of the ports in which this will now be introduced are municipally owned. There are several stakeholders in the ownership structure. Of course, it is also important to include the port companies in the position they have taken. With regard to the announcement of longer and heavier vehicles – and as a result of this more generous exemption – Parliament has decided in the spring that this will be implemented. There is now extensive work going on in the Government Office on regulatory changes as a result. The changes are proposed to enter into force on 1 April 2018, i.e. about a month and a half. The Government also decided on 30 November 2017 on amendments to the Traffic Regulation to allow for longer and heavier vehicles or trains during a trial period. These changes entered into force on 1 February 2018 and provide better conditions for developing new technologies and structures. As you who listen to the debate hear, the government has delivered in this area, which is very important for all of us who travel on the road, both to strengthen Swedish road safety and, not least, to develop good policy. With this, I would also like to call for the joint reservation of motives by the Social Democrats and the Green Party.
i-f9cde360f649f191-10	Mr President, I would like to I have a little difficulty talking because of a cold and a severe cough. I would therefore simply like to express my support for our Amendment No 1, which concerns the issue of alco-lock. We believe that it needs to remain as it is today, because it helps many people and is functional. I'm staying there because I have some problems with my voice.
i-f9cde360f649f191-11	Mr President, I would like to With reference to the previous party representatives who have been in the chair, I can say that we broadly agree on this report. I support the proposal in the report. What we have been discussing is really how the announcements have been made and how quickly you have worked. There are a few points of view. It may not have been the longest leg placed in front of the other leg, but it has gone quite slow inside the Government Office. But now we are here with this report, and I think it is a good thing. We have problems in our ports and border stations with the entry of drivers who get in their cars, drive out on our roads and pose an enormous risk of accident, both for themselves and, above all, for other people on the road. We must stop this. I think this is a good thing. Sobriety on our roads is crucial to road safety. We started the project with the 2012 alco-bommers under the alliance government. Then we worked on an evaluation in 2014. This evaluation showed very positive results, which meant that we wanted to set up alcoboms in the ports. After that, Mr President, it has now been almost four years, but we still have no alcoboms in our border stations or our ports. That is what I find rather remarkable, especially in view of the high notes that were heard from socialist representatives before the elections. When we had completed the test rounds down in the port of Gothenburg and up in Stockholm, we were told: Why do they take these bars down instead of letting them remain permanently? Now, as I have said, what has almost passed four years, and we still see no permanent booms. In conclusion, however, I think it is a good thing that we have come this far. We agree that we need to get these bars up. Then I'm a little worried about the pace of the expansion. It could perhaps be a little faster, given that there must be no anti-competitive situation between our different ports and border stations in Sweden. When we set up the barriers, it needs to take place relatively quickly throughout the country, so that the competitive situation is not distorted. Mr President, I would like to Another issue that might also need to be addressed in this context, when we are talking about alco-locks, alco-boms and other things, are the worrying figures in terms of the number of breath samples here in Sweden. They've dropped drastically under this government. From just over 123 000 exhalation tests in 2015, it has dropped to just over 30 000 in 2016. That is why we may also need to get to grips with the work that needs to be done on our roads when it comes to breath tests. If people who drink and drive a car feel confident that it is minimal risk to go there in Sweden, there is of course a great risk that they also go around onyktra. You may need to have a slightly better level of ambition when it comes to breath tests. This has fallen down a long way. But as far as the alcoboms are concerned, I think it is good that we have come this far. I hope that we will be watching very carefully that they come up in time, that it will be good and that we will stop the intoxicated drivers, who get out on our roads in Sweden in one way or another.
i-U1xp42u3AhtgCUy9HnP4YG	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Sten, for your post! I do not really agree with your history of the alcoboms in particular and the handling of this. It is true that the former bourgeois government began the work in 2012. I guess that shows that it took a lot longer than you had in mind. There was no active proposal during the 2012-2014 term of office. That is what we have now prepared in that part. As I said in my speech, it is very much about ownership structures in the various ports. Sten, who has previously been active in the city, knows that a lot of other issues need to be dealt with – building permits, access routes and other parts. There is some connection to this. We have now financed, as I said at the outset, the introduction of the bars. That is one way of preventing it from being anti-competitive. I agree with you that it's important to handle it so that you don't choose other people end up in this part. That is an urgent matter. Sten also referred to the police handling of exhalation tests. It is only to remind Sten that it is not the parliament and government that gives the directives to the police authority in this way, but it is the police themselves. We agreed on a police organization. It means that there will be a clearer structure where the policy should not be in and poke. However, we regularly point out and follow the question of how the traffic police can handle it. My question to Mr Sten in that part is: in what way do you push the questions from your side when it comes, above all, to police activity?
i-f9cde360f649f191-22	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. I still maintain that there were breast tones before we finished this in 2014 that it was just putting up the alcoboms in the ports. It was slow from the old government that was doing the evaluation and the tests for two years. Then it has been almost four years before it was decided that they should be set up, and they are still not set up. The ambition is that the first boom should be set on July 1. I think that's good. But in that situation, the Social Democrats should perhaps be reminded that it is very easy to sit in opposition and promise things that one then cannot deliver in a majority. This is excellent evidence. They did a little wrong in these contexts and were not clear enough against the Swedish Transport Administration to talk about: We will have them up. The Swedish Transport Administration was given the opportunity to look at whether they could be set up. You lost almost a year of investigation before you got it started again. They are the government's responsibility to keep pace. It's a good thing it's funded. That is almost the prerequisite for being able to set them up. That goes without saying, and it's in the second part. When it comes to the police's work, I think that Johan fits quite strongly in this context. Surely we have some forms of ambition that you also have to check the exhalation tests out on our roads. In this situation, the number is falling drastically. It gives such a clear signal out there that there is very little risk of going there if you drive drunk. Both the government and the parliament should be informed that very few exhalation tests are currently being carried out out out there. It increases the risk that it is people who drive around onyktra who are not taken. In this situation, the Minister and others need to point this out to the police. It can be a serious flaw.
i-f9cde360f649f191-27	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Sten, for your answer! Perhaps we should not grapple in the speaker's seat about who is the most good of us when it comes to traffic safety and other things. We are facing an upcoming election campaign. Should the accident occur on election day that there will be a majority change, we will see what situation will be present after the elections. I can only say here that the government is now delivering the budget in particular. I agree with Sten in that part. It is perhaps by far the most important instrument to clearly allocate funds to this. Then we from the committee will follow the work with a great deal of interest as I see it. As far as the situation of the police is concerned, we are working on it on the part of the majority. We have entrances directly to the department and follow the question with great appreciation and see what happens. I am also not satisfied that the number of breath samples has decreased. That is the kind of question we have to deal with in the best possible way. Once again, it is strictly the case that we have reformed the Police Authority, and it is now a clearer governance in that part. It is important to carry it with us based on our roles as elected representatives and with the organisation that currently exists to deal with the issues.
i-f9cde360f649f191-31	Mr President, I would like to I can answer the question that Johan Andersson asked me earlier about how we view the police's work forward. We Moderates think that the traffic police need to have a clearer mission and a clearer role. We are looking a lot at the German version of this, called BAG, where you have a more distinctive traffic police force that works a lot against professional traffic. It's a model that appeals to us and that we're looking at. It could be good to get to the illegality of pure commercial traffic that we have specialised police officers who can strike in a completely different way. As far as the police situation is concerned, we know what it is like. We need more cops, and then we need more training. While I am standing here, I can take this opportunity to press because we may need to have another new police school in Sweden. We have been beaten pretty hard from West Sweden because we want such a place in Borås. We have still not seen any trend towards its landing. It would be good if we got more training places in different areas of Sweden to attract more people to choose this profession. We need to start there. It's about finances and training so we can get more cops. At this point, it is the current government that is responsible for delivering. I wish it would be a little more workshop.
i-f9cde360f649f191-34	Mr President, I would like to Today we are dealing with issues relating to alcohol locks. We have also been in the debate on alcoboms. Mr President, I would like to Around 20 per cent of motor vehicle drivers who die from road accidents have alcohol in their bodies. In single accidents, it's almost half. It is a matter of course for most people not to drink alcohol or use other drugs and then get behind the wheel. Yet in Sweden we have at least 15 000 journeys every day with drivers so affected that they would be judged for drunk driving if they were discovered, all this according to the Swedish Transport Administration. The risk of alcohol-affected drivers is about 100 times greater than for sober drivers. A drunk driver also poses a great risk to other people in traffic. Mr President, I would like to The Government's proposal to amend the driving licence law is supported by the Liberals. The committee proposes that the Riksdag adopt the Government's proposal for amendments to the Driving Licences Act. The legislative amendments aim to ensure that Sweden complies with its obligations under the European Parliament and Council Directive. Mr President, I would like to The report also deals with the issue of alcoboms. There is an announcement that is considered complete. Between 2013 and 2015, trial projects with automatic sobriety control were carried out in both Gothenburg and Stockholm. In March 2015, the Transport Committee acted and requested the Government to act swiftly for the establishment of alco-bommar. In spring 2015, the Government commissioned the Finnish Transport Administration to analyse the legal, financial and practical conditions for introducing automatic sobriety controls. The assignment was presented in 2015. The question is, what is this urgent matter? For a long time, ports and ferry ports have been considered as a risk environment for drunk driving by police, customs and coastguards. I spoke the other day to a person who has worked as a nurse at sea and who thought that this attempt was one of the best that has been carried out, because it also has a preventive effect. The results from carried out sobriety checks in the ports reinforce this picture and indicate that drunk driving can be several times as common in connection with these environments. There are therefore good reasons to maintain frequent and effective sobriety controls in ports. The alcoboms can prevent drunk drivers from driving out on our roads. It can save lives. The experiments with alcoboms show that the number of unsupervised professional drivers decreased. In addition to preventing drunk drivers from entering traffic, routine alcohol tests in ferry terminals have also had a deterrent effect. The checks mean that people who have arrived by car on the ferries must pass an alcobom before they can leave the port. Anyone passing through the control stations must blow approved paint in order to continue driving. Therefore, the gradual expansion of alco-bommar represents a significant contribution to road safety. The legal conditions have been investigated by the National Police Board's Legal Department, and the results have been reported. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Parliament has announced to the government that the government will urgently return with how to introduce alco-boms. With regard to the issue of combating alcohol while driving, the committee stressed in report 2016/ 17:TU11 that it is urgent to continue to push ahead with the introduction of alco-boms. The committee has taken note of this on several occasions. Therefore, Mr President, I find it regrettable that it takes so long to move forward on these issues. Why is it so slow? I note that there is a motivational reservation from the government parties where it is said that it is not slow. But I think it's slow. When, as has been promised here, an alcobom is introduced this year – possibly and somewhere – it will also be reported in 2020. It's going way too slow. I note that this is stated in the motivational reservation of the government parties: we do not believe that the government has broken in haste. It is regrettable that things are going so slowly. I would have liked to have heard a comment from Karin Svensson Smith, who is chairman of the Transport Committee, but I note that she is not in the Chamber. Perhaps someone from the Social Democrats can answer the questions: When is the first boom coming? Where will it be set up? What will the future look like? What does it mean to act as a matter of urgency? Mr President, I would like to I think we should speed up, because this is a matter of saving lives.
i-f9cde360f649f191-46	Mr President, I would like to I did not intend to ask for a reply on Nina, because I thought I was clear and concise in my speech on the timetable. What is decided is that by 1 July 2018 at least one plant will be operational. It is the Government's directive, and it is also the decision that has been taken. In addition, 63 million have been committed in terms of investment costs and 15 million in increased operating costs for 2018 to 2020. This budgetary decision, of course, allows for more bars in more ports. As Nina well remembers, the first signal was that booms would be introduced in between three and five ports. As you said yourself, this will be finalized by 31 December 2020. Again: I expect that by 1 July 2018 this will be introduced in one of our port facilities. Which one remains to be seen; this is an issue that the Finnish Transport Administration has to deal with. Of course, they make a wise assessment based on traffic volumes and practical parts. I said in my speech to Sten Bergheden that it is also about the municipal plan monopoly. Nina, who has also been active in local politics, knows how it works with planning issues and other things. However, on 1 July 2018, at least one plant shall be operational.
i-f9cde360f649f191-51	Mr President, I would like to It's great that there might be a boom somewhere in July. But what I wonder about is what has taken so long. There is really nothing new. We know that there are technology for implementation and that it is to be financed. I cannot quite see what the basic conditions are that the Social Democrats did not know about. The whole committee has been a driving force in this. Factors have been looked at, legal conditions, financial conditions and much more. What, then, is news that has come to light during preparation and makes it so slow? If there is technology and money, and when there is a common goal in society that we must prevent us from having on the roads unwieldy drivers coming from the ports, then the objective should be clear. What is it that makes this stop? And why is it only a port that will get a boom? Here again we have the question of conditions of competition. I think somewhere now that the technology and the money are there, you peel up quickly. What is it to evaluate in 2020 if you do not have a proper basis? What's stopping?
i-f9cde360f649f191-54	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Nina Lundström, for the question! I would like to begin this part with what I also said in my speech: one issue that has certainly been a dispute is that ports are not in any way owned by the state. They are usually owned by municipal port companies, and there can be several parties, slightly different operating conditions and other things. I believe that this certainly affects the whole issue, at least in the part that has been described to us. This is certainly new in Swedish ports. We've had some experiments and other things. It must, of course, be handled in a good way. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the MHF, who has been driving the issues and worked intensively to influence and get to this. They have also had their experimental facilities up. Once again, I can only say that on 1 July 2018, we will have boom operations in at least one port. We have financed funds for additional ports in the future. In doing so, I hope that this will be well managed. With the intensity and vigour of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, we will certainly monitor closely on both sides how this will develop.
i-f9cde360f649f191-57	Mr President, I would like to I think it is good that there is a strong commitment in committee. Parliament can be a driving force, just as the Transport Committee has been, so that something actually happens. That is why I was concerned that the Social Democrats and the Green Party were unable to support the text contained in the report, which is that the Committee on Transport continues to push and demonstrate its commitment. It says in your motivational reservation: we do not believe that the government has broken in haste. On the contrary, the government has produced a sound basis through a thorough evaluation process. That is why I am surprised when I read the 2014/ 15 report from a joint committee at an early stage: the committee has a great deal of commitment to the issue of the introduction of alco-boms in ports and therefore calls for the government to urgently review the issue. The issues of landownership, who owns the ports, municipal influence, money and legal conditions are important. But they've been there the whole time! Mr President, I would like to I think it is important to lie on and have a pressure on the issues. I would certainly have welcomed the fact that this year too, with the commitment that exists, the committee had shown that the urgency is urgent. Here I just want to highlight the concerns that I feel. If there is an experiment this year and an evaluation in 2020, it will be many years before the alcoboms are in place. I think that would be very unfortunate.
i-f9cde360f649f191-62	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by emphasising that there is broad political agreement that alcohol and traffic do not belong together. It is important that people who have been convicted of drunk driving and suffer from abuse or addiction continue to undergo treatment and rehabilitation in order to be free from their addiction. This is a case where the European Commission wants Sweden to comply with EU directives and believes that we do not comply with the current driving licence directives. The Government has therefore proposed changes aimed at ensuring that the Swedish rules comply with the EU Directive. Unfortunately, these changes will mean a deterioration compared to the current rules in Sweden. At the same time, adapting to the EU directive and applying it is inevitable when the Commission draws attention to this. But I would like to stress the importance of further work in order for Swedish experience in this area to have a greater impact within the European Union. Mr President, I would like to The proposed change of legislation means that persons with a confirmed and known diagnosis of abuse or dependence should first be able to demonstrate lasting sobriety through a certified period of abstinence before entering the alcolocks programme. It would have been better to have an alcohol-lock program while getting treatment for your addiction while at the same time certifying abstinence. We can see that there are evaluations and research that show that people who have their driving licence withdrawn because of drunk driving normally increase their alcohol consumption. Many of them also continue to drive after the driving licence has been withdrawn. Mr President, I would like to MHF writes in its referral that it fears that the proposed legislative change may lead to many people abstaining from the alcohol lock programme, increasing their alcohol consumption and also continuing to drive without a driving licence. MHF believes that this would lead to a deterioration in road safety and in future health in this group. Furthermore, VTI points out in its referral that the number of relapses in drunk driving during the locking period is higher among people who do not have alcohol locks compared to those who have alcohol locks. Against this background, the Christian Democrats strongly stress that it is important that road safety does not deteriorate and that ill-health within the target group does not increase. We would like to stress the importance of people with substance abuse problems undergoing treatment in order to avoid the recurrence of drink-driving offences. The Christian Democrats want to draw attention to the fact that it is often immediately after the abuse has had a tangible consequence, such as a drunk driving sentence, that the motivation to break the addiction is greatest. Therefore, it is important that the requirement of alcoal is in place, while at the same time receiving treatment for your addiction. Mr President, I would like to I would like to comment on the government's handling of some announcements mentioned in the bill. In the bill, the government reports its handling of five announcements. The Swedish Parliament has announced to the government that the government should urgently review the issue of how to implement the introduction of alco-boms in border ports. The Government has stated in the bill what measures have been taken and that the Riksdag's announcement on the introduction of alcoboms has been finalised. It is regrettable that it has taken so long for the government to take decisions on the introduction of permanent and mobile alco-boms in the border ports. We welcome the fact that the government has set aside funds for the introduction of alcoboms in the border ports, but the question is when they will be in place, as has been highlighted in the past by some speakers. According to the answer we have received from Johan Andersson, it is only in 2020 that these alcobommers, permanent or mobile, will be in place. The government has soon been in power for four years, and it will therefore take two more years before these alcoboms will be in place. The question is also how the government will follow this so that the Finnish Transport Agency prioritises the installation and fewer drivers can thus get out on the roads with alcohol in the body. In the bill, the Government also reports two announcements concerning the length and weight of trucks and buses. The Swedish Parliament has announced to the government the need to rapidly prepare the necessary regulatory changes so that trucks with a gross weight of up to 74 tonnes are allowed to operate those parts of the public road network that have sufficient bearing capacity, and the need for further investigation into the issue of allowing vehicle carriage of up to 30 metres. We would like to remind you that a majority in the committee has stated that the carrying capacity of roads should be crucial for which road network is provided for trucks with a maximum gross weight of 74 tonnes and that this should be implemented urgently. Mr President, I would like to We will come back to this issue when the committee deals with heavy goods vehicles later in the spring in connection with the preparation of motions for resolutions.
i-f9cde360f649f191-79	Mr President, I would like to I would like to say to Robert Halef that I tried to be as clear as I could in my speech. By 1 July 2018, we expect at least one plant to be operational. What will then be done is for the entire mission to be reported on 31 December 2020. Then I assume that there is a structure for where these facilities are located. I would like to remind you that we have committed funds in the budget proposal. It is perhaps the most important instrument for this to be implemented. Then you can always want to interpret things in different ways. I assume Robert doesn't deliberately misinterpret this part, but I can get a little suspicious. It has taken time, and I have also tried to explain what has been the reason for this. It is not that you have been watching the navel, but you have worked intensively on the question and come across patrol in this part. Of course, as is customary in the state administration, this should be done in a way that is correct in terms of management. There are several parties involved. I mentioned the municipal ports, and there are other parts that can be added to this. I now assume that this will be implemented, and I am quite convinced that this is the case. Sometimes it's a good time to be a little thoughtful. During your reign, you had time. There was a window that was open, but it took time there too. The new Transport Committee and the new government then went ahead, and now we are doing this.
i-BuR4kaSZ132bUpHdJ5w7ie	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Johan, for the information! The fact that these alcoboms will not be in place until 2020 means that you have been in power for almost four years and it will take another two years. This issue has been long drawn. The majority parties in the Riksdag have had some texts in previous budgets that have been submitted a few years ago. Not much has happened since then, but we welcome the fact that funds have now been set aside and that these alcoboms are being taken seriously. I understand the bureaucracy involved in granting land and building permits and so on, but that it has taken so long, I do not understand. I also believe that the first boom that will come into place will be some kind of mobile variant. It does not really feel like the government or the Minister for Infrastructure has taken the seriousness of the introduction of these alcoboms. We from the Christian Democrats would have liked to have seen a more effective government so that these barriers could have been put in place. I think it's possible to get them in place in just a few years. It shouldn't have to take six years.
i-f9cde360f649f191-89	Mr President, I would like to There is nothing to say that it should not be implemented until 2020. It's supposed to be final report to the government then. And we assume that in connection with the final report it has been introduced in a number of ports. If it were to take more money to finance this, I assume that, given the great participation and acceptance that is now in place, it would go through in this House, regardless of what happens in future elections and other things. So I am confident that we will resolve this issue together.
i-f9cde360f649f191-91	Mr President, I would like to I am also looking forward to doing so together, because this is an issue on which everyone in the committee agrees. But the question remains. We have had experiments in both Stockholm and Gothenburg. On the basis of these attempts and in view of the unity of the committee, the government should have been more able to act, set in motion and set aside funds in previous budgets to bring it into place earlier in these ports than is now estimated.
i-f9cde360f649f191-93	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to debate the Constitutional Committee's report on greater transparency in the funding of parties. Today we have legislation on parties, Members and substitutes at the central level, the so-called transparency agenda. This matter is a continuation of the law already in place and is inspired by an initiative from the time of the alliance government. In 2014, the then government decided to entrust a parliamentary committee with the task of analysing certain issues relating to the transparency of party and electoral candidates' funding, including at regional and local level. The ambition was to achieve a coherent and balanced regulatory framework for transparency in party funding. In 2016, the Committee submitted its final report, which has since been reviewed by the Legislative Council. The proposal we are now going to take a position on is essentially in line with the Council's proposal. The Moderates support the proposal for new legislation which extends the requirement for revenue statements to regional, local and party side organisations. Each non-profit association, side organisation, member and alternate member shall report on their own activities. The limitations that previously existed for political activities and personal election campaigns are removed. Central level lots shall always submit a revenue statement. Others do not have to submit any revenue statement if, during the accounting period, the revenue, after certain deductions for, inter alia, membership fees of the normal level and lot support, is less than 0,5 price base amounts. For 2018, this means 22 750 SEK. It also introduces a ban on receiving anonymous grants with a value of more than 0.05 pris base amounts, which for 2018 corresponds to SEK 2 275. The indirect ban on anonymous contributions currently in place is removed. The system of sanctions is adapted for the different categories of debtors and includes unlawful contributions. In order to simplify matters for the public, county councils and municipalities should publish on their websites information on the party support they pay out. In the Committee, we made many considerations in order to strike a balance between the public's need for transparency of parties and the funding of parties and the administration that Members and, above all, small party associations have to deal with. It was a delicate task. We had a lot of discussions and turned a lot of questions around. Many of the members of the Committee also sit on the Constitutional Committee and are well aware of this. We Moderates are behind the whole of the new legislation, but we have reservations on two points. For time winning, I request consent to reservation 5 only. The first reservation, to which the Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats subscribe, is that members of employers' organisations and trade unions should be given the opportunity to say yes or no to whether their membership fees should be used as contributions to political parties. As the rules are designed today, a member of the union cannot decide for himself whether the paid membership fee should go to support the Social Democrats, or indeed the Moderates. The latter is something more theoretical; it is not as likely to happen as the former. Nevertheless, it is fundamentally reprehensible. It is not reasonable for us to have regulations in 2018 that aim to strengthen an individual party's party treasury at the expense of the wishes of the individual union members. In the 1990s, union membership of the Social Democrats abolished collective agreements. Before that, trade unions were able to join the Social Democrats without asking permission first. A Moderate could thus be forced to become a member of the Social Democrats. For example, I was a member for a period of time. But the local Social Democrats knew that I was moderate and that it was therefore not a big idea to send me invitations to meetings. Thank God that time is over. But there are echoes left. And we should take them away. The Parliamentary Committee behind the original proposal was tasked with analysing and considering whether there should be a requirement for the consent of individual members of organisations representing the social partners to grant financial support to parties or candidates for elections. However, such a proposal was not made due to difficulties in finding an appropriate format. I would like to turn the question and rhetorical question about the appropriateness of the present form. How appropriate is it that the wishes of individuals should not be heeded in favour of the Social Democratic Party Treasury? There is every possibility of introducing rules on consent. Look at Denmark that already has such rules in place! The second reservation, to which the Moderates acquiesced, closes the other alliance parties behind. It is about individuals being given clear information about a lottery organised to finance party political activities. In some respects, this hooks into the previous question. It is a question of people being misled in favour of the Social Democratic Party treasury. If lotteries are to be organised by political parties, it is reasonable for lottery buyers to receive clear information in case a lottery is organised to finance party political activities. The absence of a proposal from the Parliamentary Committee is due to an ongoing review of lottery legislation. However, we believe that a clear position on this issue is needed so that it can also be included in a new lottery legislation. It is not to be filled that only the Swedish Lottery Inspectorate knows who is behind a lottery. If you go into their website and look it is also not easy to find information about it. The individual should always be given clear information. It is in line with the aim of the bill, namely to increase public transparency in the funding of parties. Mr President, I would like to With this, I once again call for the approval of reservation 5.
i-f9cde360f649f191-111	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I support our reservations 1 and 3. Of course, we are also in favour of our reservation 2, but for time-winning, I am only in favour of reservations 1 and 3. The Act on Transparency in Financing Parties entered into force on 1 April 2014 and prohibited parties in the Swedish Parliament from receiving anonymous contributions. It was a very strict rule which meant that the slightest mistake could result in the party in question being able to get rid of its entire party support as punishment. Another problem was that it was not the wrong party, such as a candidate for parliament, that would bear the consequences, but the whole party. In addition to these, as most people have seen, the Council of Europe's anti-corruption supervisory body, Greco, has made some criticism of the system introduced in 2014. One of the points of this criticism has been that the Swedish ban on anonymous contributions applies only on a national level. The Government therefore set up an investigation already in June 2014 with the aim of proposing a more balanced system of transparency in party funding. The Directive included proposing a broadening of the obligation to account for contributions and proposing a solution that would meet Grecos's relatively stringent requirements. The investigation presented its proposal under the title Increased transparency in party funding – an expanded regulatory framework in October 2016. And it is essentially the proposals that we worked out in the Committee of Inquiry that come back to the government proposal and the report we are debating. Mr President, I would like to Based on our horizon, we have no problem with a stricter requirement for transparency and transparency in how our party is financed. On the contrary, it is very reasonable for the citizens to have a good opportunity to see how it is done. We therefore believe that the proposals drawn up by the study and included in the report in its main parts are good. And we think it is a good thing that all parties agree on most of the proposals, not least on the elements that create the framework and basic principles of the new law. This ensures that the law will have a relatively long life span and that a kind of bourgeois peace will prevail around its main parts. On some points, however, we believe that the law should have improved, which is why we have chosen to reserve ourselves in three respects. I'll be right back to the questions. Firstly, some elements that I consider essential for the whole to work and which I have supported and propagated in the investigation and which we therefore also welcome in the legislative proposal. Such a part is that it must be the responsibility of each beneficiary to account for and be responsible for the accuracy of the information provided. It is not reasonable for someone else to be responsible for providing accurate information. It is also good that the law should apply to all political levels with general elections and that Kammarkollegiet should collect and report the results. Mr President, I would like to However, there is a great danger of excessive transparency in the case of individual donors who may be subjected to insulting treatment if there is an active support for a particular party. It can be anything from family situations, being excluded from the Transport Workers' Association for the sake of their opinions, to direct harassment staged by the media, such as journalists who persecute individuals for this reason. It occurs in Sweden, and it is a scandal in itself. Despite these problems, which one of our reservations focuses on by proposing that the effects of the law be investigated already when the 2018 election year can be summed up, we believe that democracy requires far-reaching transparency. A solution to some of the problems mentioned is, we believe, to have relevant thresholds that must be exceeded in order for a statement to be made and that the identity of the donor must therefore be disclosed or the contributions paid back. It is important that people should be able to contribute to a party without being expelled for it and that at the same time we meet Grecos's demand for a fundamental ban on anonymous contributions. Mr President, I would like to In the Committee we had quite extensive discussions on these issues, and I feel that we could meet in a good way and that the threshold levels now proposed can therefore be considered to be well balanced and provide the reasonable level of protection for donors. However, as I have mentioned, there is reason to follow this issue very closely and to relatively soon make a serious assessment of how the law in this regard has worked during the 2018 election year. Another issue related to access to the overall information on the funding of different candidates, party associations and parties is how to present the data. In the bill, as in the investigation, Kammarkollegiet is proposed to handle financial statements from the accounting officers and to present the results on its website. We believe that the proposal, which means that data on municipal party support are not presented by Kammarkollegiet, loses an important point of transparency when not all data are presented in the same place. We believe that it would have been easy to add a reporting requirement to Kammarkollegiet to the payers of such support. It would have been a good thing to simplify this way for those interested in seeing what the overall funding looks like. That is why we also have a reservation which proposes such a system. Mr President, I would like to Lotteries carried out to finance political parties have existed in Sweden for a long time. However, it is difficult to understand what the purpose of the lottery is in some cases. It is also an important issue from the perspective of openness and transparency. In the investigation, there was much discussion about this and whether a requirement to clearly indicate the beneficiary on all tickets should be introduced. We then noted that there is another investigation on a major amendment of the lottery law, and the issue was released with a comment to draw the attention of that investigation to this issue. The Swedish Lottery Inspectorate may also issue requirements for information on beneficiaries for all lotteries. We have nothing against making a clearer requirement for such information. This would increase transparency, which is the purpose of this law. The last and most burning issue touched on the feelings of the committee during the investigation. It is about how the social partners can make contributions to individual candidates or parties. The fact that the issue was at all the subject of discussion is due to the fact that the associations which make up the social partners have a very special position, through a monopolistic situation in the representation of workers' interests as employees. The Committee expressed its views on this subject as follows: 中 Being a member of a particular organisation in the labour market is voluntary. As pointed out in the Committee's directive ( Dir. However, in 2014:90 p. 15), the special status of labour market organisations in labour law may make the possibility of remaining outside the organisation appear in many cases to be a less advantageous option for the individual employee or employer. The directives also state that, since the main reason for membership is usually not of a political nature, it has been discussed in the general debate whether the individual should not be able to decide whether he or she wants the membership fee to be used to support a particular party financially. As the directives point out, there may be reasons for an individual member to want to be a member of the organisation but at the same time to refrain from contributing through his membership, and by paying his membership fee, to support a particular party financially. ..................................................... Unfortunately, many of these associations have shown that they are prepared to exclude members, both from positions of trust and as members, because of party political preferences. It shows that there is a big gap between beautiful words about values and how to deal with this in practice. On these various aspects of the problem as a starting point, we see no alternative but to propose that the social partners be banned from making contributions to political candidates and parties. One option could be to require the agreement of the members, as proposed by the Alliance in one of its reservations, but we do not believe that it would provide sufficient protection for the members. That is the basis for our proposal to prohibit the social partners from making contributions to political parties, but also to individual candidates and party associations. For safety's sake, I also support reservation 4.
i-f9cde360f649f191-127	Mr President, I would like to The process of developing legislation on greater transparency in the funding of parties and candidates for elections has been extensive. The background is the demands of the Council of Europe's organ Greco, which is working on measures to stop corruption in the form of influence on parties and politicians with various forms of gifts and contributions that may have the character of bribery. Through demands for greater transparency and openness in the economics of parties and politicians, undue influence on political decisions will be stopped, according to Grecos's direction. In the run-up to the 2014 elections, legislation was already in place on national party organisations and candidates for parliamentary elections. Legislation is now being proposed, including the parties' local, municipal and regional organisations and candidates for the elections in municipalities, county councils and regions. Transparency shall be achieved through an obligation to provide annual information on its revenues to the National Board of Trade, which shall then make the information available on a website. The legislation is proposed to enter into force on 1 April 2018. Information shall be provided to the National Board of Trade no later than 1 July of the year following receipt of grants, gifts and other income above certain amounts. I myself have been a member of the investigation that has produced a basis for the legislation that the government has now submitted to us in the Riksdag and the Constitutional Committee for preparation. The proposals initially received from the Ministry of Justice's experts were particularly far-reaching in terms of how many non-profit organisations and election candidates would be accountable annually to the National Board of Trade. I saw as my task in the investigation to try to prevent the extensive bureaucracy of voluntary work in the local and municipal organisations of political parties. Data requirements and threats of fees could have the effect that many people would not be prepared to take on duties in these associations, for example as treasurer or to be part of a board of directors with the responsibilities that it entails with far-reaching data requirements and the risk of fees. As far as the number of organisations and persons responsible for providing information is concerned, I and the rest of the investigation have been able to limit the number of persons responsible for the information by means of thresholds which make it unnecessary to provide information on non-significant amounts to the National Board of Trade. However, the national organisations of all parliamentary parties, the district and municipal organisations of many parties, as well as many election candidates and politicians are still accountable for their duties. This is about more in election years than in other years, because many in the years between the elections do not reach the thresholds for data obligations that are now being proposed. The draft legislation prohibits, in principle, anonymous donations and contributions to parties, candidates for elections and politicians. For practical reasons, there has been a limit of 0.05 base amounts, i.e. a little over SEK 2 000, for anonymous contributions. Anonymous contributions above this limit shall be reported and paid to the National Board of Trade. Otherwise, the limit for accountability to the National Board of Trade was set at 0.5 basic amounts, i.e. slightly over 20 000 SEK per year, for political organisations, election candidates and elected politicians. However, this limit amount for revenue does not include municipal party support and grants, nor amounts paid between organisations and candidates within the party. In spite of our efforts during the investigation to limit the complexity, this legislation requiring disclosure will require a comprehensive information effort by the National Board of Trade and parties' national organisations. Although the number of guilty persons is limited, many political associations, electoral candidates and elected politicians need to keep track of the limits of the amount of duty, and we need to know what gifts, contributions and other revenues are to be included in the duty to provide information. In a special opinion to the investigation, I highlighted demands that should be made on lotteries. The lotteries must clearly indicate who is the beneficiary of the lottery. I also mentioned that collecting societies involved in electoral movements should be accountable for their duties. In a motion during last year's general exercise, I have also exercised that lottery sales on credit, which any party engages in, should be banned. In this report, we in the Center Party have two reservations, Nos 4 and 5, in which we propose banning the social partners from making contributions to political parties and banning the sale of lottery tickets on credit. Mr President, I would like to I am in favour of reservations 4 and 5 in this report.
i-f9cde360f649f191-135	Mr President, I would like to In an open and transparent democracy, which Sweden always strives to be, citizens must be able to trust that the elected representatives and political parties are not financed by dark forces – or at least they should be told that they do, if that is the case. For the sake of transparency, the Government decided in June 2014 to give a parliamentary committee tasked with analysing issues of transparency in the funding of parties and election candidates in order to achieve a coherent and balanced regulatory framework for transparency in party funding. This has been well explained by my alliance colleagues. The Council of Europe assesses how the 49 Member States comply with the 2003 recommendations on common anti-corruption regulation in the financing of political parties and electoral campaigns, as well as other conventions and recommendations in the field of anti-corruption. This is done by the Council of Europe's Anti-Corruption Group, Greco. Following Grecos evaluation, the assessment was that the Swedish system at the time did not comply with the 2003 recommendations, and Sweden received seven recommendations on measures that should be taken to increase transparency. That is precisely what we are trying to do with this proposal. The committee therefore now proposes that the Riksdag adopt the Government's legislative proposal, where the requirement for revenue reporting should also apply to parties at regional and local level as well as to parties' side organisations. Each non-profit association within a party or side organisation and each member and replacement of a member shall report on its activities. Parties at central level, who have a mandate in the Riksdag or the European Parliament or who receive State aid for any other reason, must always submit a revenue statement. Mr President, I would like to With regard to the point of party support from the social partners and the agreement of the members, we in the Alliance have had a rather lively discussion. The Liberals have chosen to support the committee's position. We simply believe that freedom of association must take precedence in this case. It is up to each association to decide how to use its funds, and it is up to each member of an association to be involved in deciding on this. That is why we have chosen to support the committee's proposals. Liberals broadly agree with the committee's position, and we think it can be said that all parties take this issue very seriously – with one reservation. This concerns the lotteries activities of the parties, where the Liberals and the Alliance have a reservation. We do not think that the Government's proposal or, more accurately, the proposal made by the representatives of the Government parties in the Riksdag and the V and SD are sufficiently far-reaching. When political parties organise lottery activities, which in some cases form a significant part of the party's revenue, it is only reasonable that Mother Agda and Uncle Henry are clearly informed that the lottery buy finances party political activities. A clear position is needed here so that this can be included in a new lottery law. It is not enough for the Swedish Lottery Inspectorate to know who is behind a lottery if you are serious about the purpose of the bill, that is to increase public transparency in the funding of parties. Mr President, I would like to I therefore support the Alliance's reservation No 5.
i-f9cde360f649f191-141	Mr President, I would like to Work on the report and the proposal, and before that in the Committee, has been lengthy and difficult. I have been on the committee and tried to deal with these issues in the best way possible. There are obvious conflicts of interest which the Committee, the Government and now the Constitutional Committee are trying to resolve as well as possible. When the Committee, prompted by the Council of Europe Anti-Corruption Control Agency, Greco, began its work, we could see in the extreme that up to 80 000 people, organisations and party departments would have to submit an annual report. Was this really necessary? On the other hand, we saw that there is a legitimate demand and an interest in greater transparency in the funding of the parties, which we ourselves, as politicians and in the political parties, fully share. We want to help ensure that there is no corruption, that it is transparent and that the public sees that this is completely reliable and reasonable. However, we do not want to tighten the control bodies and limit values so much that we are strangling generosity. I agree with the previous speakers in all material respects, but let me say as something new in this: it is good to give to political parties and to support political commitment also by giving a penny. It's not ugly; it's good. It just has to be transparent and clear so that you do not deceive anyone, try to deceive or try to find benefits – what we call bribes in everyday terms. We want to avoid this. We want to limit the number of people responsible for tasks and red tape, and we want the National Board of Trade to have a reasonable working situation. This is the proposal we have come up with. There are some limit values that we think are necessary and balanced. For example, there is no need to submit a revenue statement if, during the accounting period, the revenue is less than 0,5 price base amounts, currently SEK 22 750. We are also introducing a ban on accepting anonymous contributions with a value of more than 0.05 pris base amounts, in today's monetary value of approximately $275. Anonymous contributions of a couple of hundred quid, such as swishas in or other ways that make it difficult to check where they come from, are also acceptable. However, these are marginal, insignificant contributions. Similarly, membership fees are allowed if they are at a normal level, up to 400. It is also possible, so to speak, to let the hat go around and make an anonymous collection. Why are these limits set, and why are these possibilities given? Because we want transparency of everything that is essential and want to avoid corruption at all costs, that is to say that someone buys power to vote in a political assembly such as the Riksdag. We have therefore complied with Mr Grecos's recommendations by quite a good margin, I would say. There is one thing on which we do not agree, and I would like, Mr President, to ask for the approval of reservation 5. It is about party support from the social partners and the consent of the members. The committee did not fully work through that issue. It was tasked with considering and analysing whether there should be a requirement for the consent of individual members with regard to financial support provided by organisations representing the social partners to parties or candidates for elections. We didn't; we didn't have to work through this. The difficulty was in finding a suitable design. One can say that there is such a thing in Denmark, and I have in a reservation supported such a proposal. You could look further at this. But even more important are lottery activities carried out by parties and information to individuals. It is reasonable for lottery buyers to have clear information about a lottery organised to finance party political activities. I think most people are aware of this, but it cannot be proved that this is the case for everyone. Precisely in a spirit of transparency and clarity and in order to avoid people being misled, the Christian Democrats have endorsed reservation 5.
i-f9cde360f649f191-151	Mr President, I would like to Parliament has to consider a proposal for greater transparency in the funding of parties. The background to the legislation is, of course, a concern for the legitimacy of democracy. There shall be no suspicion of any confusion as to the financing of parties or the risk of bribery. International criticism has also been voiced by the Council of Europe's Anti-Corruption Control Agency, Greco. This concerns risks with the Swedish system of voluntary agreements between parties. That is why the 2014 elections were already taking place, albeit with a little agony on the part of some parties, provisional legislation prohibiting anonymous contributions to the parliamentary parties at central level; it did not cover regional and local levels. The sanctions consisted of a completely withdrawn party support. It has to be said that sanctions were not proportionate but really draconian. The KU said from the outset that this legislation was to be regarded as temporary, pending a better order. A parliamentary committee has been working on this issue and has tried to find a solution that strikes a reasonable balance between the public interest in transparency and a reasonable administrative burden. There has been an interesting consensus between the parties' representatives on the committee. The parties may from outside appear to be gigantic devices that are groups, but we who work in parties and have insight into them realize that it does not look like that. When proposals have been made regarding requirements for central data collection for any temple in Stockholm, this has not been in line with our picture of how parties work. Instead, we have ended up in a model that I think is appropriate given how the Swedish democratic party system works, namely that each level is responsible for itself and that the parties do not centrally report on all levels. I welcome this. A united committee has endeavoured that small party associations should be able to work and that one should be able to take on a cashier's assignment without having a huge administrative burden on them. I believe that this is important for the functioning of democracy, and I would like to thank the members of the Committee for this. We Social Democrats are in favour of the KU's draft legislation. We reject motions that we mean restrict freedom of association. I would like to read from the European Convention on Human Rights. It provides for the following in Article 11: 中 Everyone has the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and freedom of association, including the right to form and join trade unions in order to protect his or her interests. ..................................................... It also states that the exercise of these rights may not be subject to restrictions other than those laid down by law and which are necessary in a democratic society for reasons of state security or public security, for the prevention of disorder or crime, for the protection of health or morals or for the protection of the rights and freedoms of other persons. ..................................................... I believe that this is a strong provision concerning freedom of association, and I do not think that it should be tackled. We believe that the exercise of lottery activity is to be regarded as a political air fighter. What is required in that exercise is already done. It is clear on our lottery tickets who is the beneficiary.
i-f9cde360f649f191-161	Mr President, I would like to With regard to the foundations of the legislation that is now being introduced, we are in complete agreement. I think we had very good discussions in the parliamentary committee on the balance that should enable small party associations to operate. We also had brief discussions about the possibility for a member of an employer's or trade union organisation to say no. Rather, it should be obvious that if any part of my membership fee should also go to a political party, I will make a consent. That is not the case today. Then you fall back on the question of freedom of association, representation and that representatives decide at the meeting. But if you have different political views, you will never become an agent. It's a democratic chimare. It is unfortunate that we cannot leave the old days behind and give the individual the right. I wish that the Social Democrats take the step precisely to clarify the rights of the individual. We'll see if it'll be another 20 years. When do you think you are ready to say that it is proper to say yes, Hans Ekström?
i-f9cde360f649f191-164	Mr President, I would like to There are, of course, alternative ways for associations to organise support when not all members share the view of a political message. One such example was Visita's campaign on the so-called double blow, which would kill the whole of Sweden's restaurant business. The former center party leader Maud Olofsson received as a reward for the tax cuts as chairman. It was clear that the double blow would kill Swedish restaurant business. It is an alternative way of supporting. I know restaurant owners who did not support the campaign, but their membership fees in Visita went to that campaign as well. No one can claim that this petition was not a political message that was directed against the risk of having a government that would kill Swedish restaurant business. That has not been the case. What right does that restaurant owner have in your world view?
i-f9cde360f649f191-167	Mr President, I would like to You can always turn this around, but I think the biggest difference in Hans Ekström's reasoning is that there are LO unions that pay out cash support to the Social Democratic Party. There is a big difference if a trade union, or an employer organisation, like Visita's campaign, decides that you think something. A member company can have discussions, be upset and feel that something is wrong. But it is a mile away from the fact that a trade union, or for that matter an employer's organisation, pays money to a political party with which a member absolutely does not sympathise. This is a remnant since the times of collective accession. For me, it's basically offensive. Often it is necessary to be in a trade union. With collective agreements, there will be supplementary pension, insurance and so on. It's easy to say you can stand outside. Yes, of course you can, but you get worse conditions afterwards. You join the union, and then you are indirectly involved in funding a party with which you do not sympathise. I think it's offensive to the individual. One must be able to distinguish between a trade union or an employers' union for campaigns and paying to a political party.
i-f9cde360f649f191-170	Mr President, I would like to On the contrary, it can be argued that it is a much more transparent way of providing support than providing support for the indirect campaign via Visita or other such organisations. Then the support will be hidden. I would like to know with how many million Moderates were supported by Visita's campaign in the previous election campaign. I can't see that in any accounting. On the other hand, the support of the trade unions for our party can be seen in publicly presented data. But how many millions were poured out of Visita's campaign? I saw much more advertising in the Visita campaign than I saw from any political party.
i-f9cde360f649f191-172	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating the KU19 Increased transparency in party funding. If I may make a little joke, then it is not a question of new statutes for Sweden's trade unions or employers' organisations that we are debating. We in the Green Party from the start have been keen to account for where our revenues come from. From the beginning, it was done when someone asked. The Green Party was among the first parties to present all the major gifts themselves, and we have been pushing for the first voluntary agreements and even more for the start of legislative work. We have done this knowing how power can increase the risk of corruption. The Council of Europe's decision on a recommendation on common rules against corruption in the financing of political parties and electoral campaigns came in 2003. The Council of Europe Control Agency The Group of States against Corruption, Greco, visited Sweden not long after. I was then party secretary for the Green Party and was one of the people Greco met for an interview and then a report. Their recommendation was already then to ensure that there is legislation to make visible who finances large contributions to different parties. What they really said to all party secretaries was that we do not understand how naive we are in Sweden; we really think we are completely impregnated against corruption. When Greco came back, the recommendations were more powerful. The debate and pressure increased in Sweden, including through Transparency International organising knowledge seminars. It turned out that Sweden was one of the few democratic countries that were completely without legislation in this area. When the legislative work started, it was really only the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats who kind of sat down a little bit and didn't want this, while the others were there. Quite soon, however, the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats also joined the boat. When, in 2014, we received the first legislation on transparency in the financing of parties, the Transparency Act, it was a major step. It became a law, and there were also sanctions for parties that did not comply with the law in such a way that party support was not given to those parties that have received false contributions or have not been properly accounted for. However, the legislation was not quite clear, and we continued to get criticism from Greco because the legislation was not entirely opposed to anonymous contributions and that they did not have municipalities and county councils. That's why the investigation started, and I think it's been a good investigation. Today, we are finally getting through the part about parties at central level that have a mandate in Parliament or the European Parliament or for other reasons receiving state aid, as well as their side organisations, always making a revenue report. Others do not have to do so if, during the accounting period, the income after certain deductions is less than half the basic amount. There will also be a ban on the receipt of anonymous contributions with a value of more than 0.05 price base amounts. I and the Green Party would have liked to have seen even lower thresholds for anonymous contributions, but we nevertheless agreed on the compromise because we wanted a proposal on which everyone agreed. I am pleased to do so even today, and I support the proposal of the Constitutional Committee. I will just say something about this with lotteries on credit, because it has been up to the discussion. It feels like something that is a little outside today's affairs, but since I am also a game political spokesperson, I'm going to tell you a little about how it works. It is therefore already forbidden to have lotteries on credit, but exceptions may be granted to some non-profit organisations. Since January 2005, 18 lotteries have been granted such an exemption. Now there are proposals for a new regulation, and there too the idea is that it should be prohibited to offer bets on credit. However, derogations should also be granted in certain cases. It is, of course, about the possibility of selling lottery tickets to very small amounts, which should not have to lead to too much gambling addiction. With this, I call for the KU's proposal to be approved.
i-f9cde360f649f191-183	Mr President, I would like to There are several who have explained what proposals we are making in technical terms and what the regulation itself looks like. What can be said is that we have great confidence in our political system in general, but in order for us to maintain it, it is important that we have a high level of transparency. One should not even have to suspect that there are hidden agendas behind the political parties, but one should be able to see who finances them. This is important, and that is why we need to have good transparency. I'm glad we agree on that. The previous legislation has been mentioned a few times. It meant that a party risked getting rid of the whole party support if someone made an anonymous contribution to the party. It is not a reasonable sanction for what has happened, and it is regrettable that we had such legislation. I believe, however, that it played an important role – I believe that the legislation was crucial in order for us to nevertheless get to the point where we could sit down and properly discuss how transparency would be regulated and anonymous contributions stopped. In this way, I therefore believe that the legislation was good; it had its place in view of how this has been done historically. That's good. We are pleased with this legislation. We think it's good. It strikes a balance between transparency and a reasonable administrative burden. It goes without saying that we do not want to complicate things so that people do not want to get involved in political parties. It is important that we have a local democracy with local, small party associations where people work together and volunteerly to improve the world. It's important and good, and it shouldn't be too complicated to do that. It is also good that people want to contribute – if you have money left over, you should be able to contribute. But you should not be able to contribute so much and be hidden instead of public. Small contributions should be able to make without having to be presented – for example because it becomes so unmanageable to keep on doing otherwise. If someone puts 200 bucks in a gun and it is to be reported who has done it, it becomes unreasonable. However, it is important to account for larger amounts of money. Nor is it directly a matter of registration of opinions. Some may think, but we should be able to have this transparency. That principle is more important, in the same way that we report who is standing for parties and which candidates are there. It is therefore a reasonable balance, in which transparency is increased. This is an excellent proposal, on which I support it.
i-f9cde360f649f191-190	Mr President, I would like to When my colleague Jonas opened the KU's year of debate in the House the other week, he noted that electoral issues were in the pipeline. They do this not only because it is parliamentary elections this year, but also because questions about voice influence, biased media reporting and so-called fake news are constantly relevant. These are all issues which, if not dealt with properly, risk having a negative impact on our democracy for a long time to come. However, one thing that has already had a negative impact on our democracy for a long time and unfortunately risks continuing to do so is the monster state of Europe and all its anti-national federalists – you know, the people who think it is good if decisions are taken in closed trilogue negotiations as far away from the citizens they touch as possible. Similarly, in recent decades we have had an unprecedented influx of people from far-away countries, who, although they may have lived here for a long time, have still not learned Swedish, do not participate in society or may not even wish to be Swedish citizens. Nevertheless, even these people – for some wonderful reason – have the right to vote in Swedish elections. The Swedish democrats are happy to come back and often to the fact that it is important for us to regain and enhance the importance of citizenship. There must simply be a clearer distinction between being a Swedish citizen and not being a Swedish citizen. For us, it is self-evident that people who claim not only to influence Swedish society by voting but perhaps also to steer social development by being elective to various senior positions should at least be Swedish citizens. In addition to the hookbones that this and previous governments have already put to themselves in this respect, the EU is therefore putting its determined efforts to promote its artificial and forced so-called European citizenship. In the long term, of course, we must work to completely eliminate all supranational ambitions within the European Union, but until the happy day comes, we must try to reduce damage and do the best possible within the framework to which we actually have to relate. Today, therefore, not only Swedish citizens but also so-called citizens of the Union, as well as citizens of Iceland and Norway, have the right to vote and are eligible for the county council and municipal council. In addition, foreigners who have been registered in Sweden for three consecutive years have the right to vote and are eligible in general elections. In total, Statistics Sweden estimates that approximately 578 000 foreign citizens can vote and are eligible for the autumn elections, which is just over 27 per cent more than just four years ago. Sweden is also the country where by far the most so-called mobile EU citizens are candidates or nominated by the parties to sit in the Swedish decision-making assemblies where they are eligible. Almost 21 per cent of them were also elected in the last elections, despite the fact that Sweden and the Swedes are among the peoples of the EU who, according to a report from the European Commission, are among the most critical of giving posts in basic local government units to the citizens of other EU countries. As many as 65 per cent of Sweden's citizens felt that this type of senior management should not be held by so-called mobile EU citizens. That is a large, clear and clear majority. But this does not seem to concern either the government or other parties very much. In fact, there are a number of provisions within the framework of EU law that could be applied to mitigate these abuses. According to the directive, for example, it is entirely appropriate to reserve just such positions that 65% of Swedish citizens do not think that other countries' citizens should be allowed to hold. We think that would be the right thing to do democratically, but the Swedish governments have chosen not to invoke these derogations so far. There is also no requirement that, as we in Sweden do today, foreign citizens should be automatically taken up on the electoral roll. And of course not only should the fact that one happens to have stayed in Sweden for a few years be enough to vote and be eligible in Swedish elections. Thus, we believe that the government should investigate and return with proposals to restrict the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in general elections in Sweden to Swedish citizens as far as possible. I request the approval of reservation 2.
i-f9cde360f649f191-200	Mr President, I would like to The motion for a resolution on electoral issues contains a motion by Peter Helander and Staffan Danielsson, the Center Party, for which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has unfortunately rejected but for which I have reservations. In the centre motion 2017/ 18:1859, the proposal is for young people to have the right to vote in the calendar year in which they turn 18. Under current rules, a large proportion of the age group in a school class is excluded from participation at the same time as their classmates, when they are only allowed to vote four years later. Experience shows that young people are clearly more likely to participate in elections if they are in their 18s than if they are in their 22s. A high turnout is an important democratic issue. The Center Party wants to contribute to more young people getting the right to vote and increasing voting turnout. The right to vote from the age of 18 would therefore be positive for young people and for democracy. That is the background to my reservation on this matter.
i-f9cde360f649f191-202	Mr President, I would like to In this case, the Left Party and the Center Party are in complete agreement. We share the view that it is good to increase voting turnout. We think it is important that as many people as possible who live, work, study and are present in our society also participate in and influence the elections and participate in voting. We know that when you go to high school, there is always a focus on election issues during the election years, and not everyone in the same class has the opportunity to vote. Of course, it affects the way the discussions go. It also affects how their propensity to vote becomes forward in time, if not all can participate simultaneously in the first election. We therefore fully agree with the Center Party on this issue. We have also exercised the same thing in the past. This year we did not do it during the general period of exercise, but we support the same proposal and are therefore on the same reservation. That is a very good proposal. To restrict the voting rights of the various people who have it today is, of course, contrary to what we think. We therefore think that the answer to other exercises is very good. Of course I agree to the reservation.
i-f9cde360f649f191-207	Mr President, I would like to I could be very brief and say that there are many good proposals. Some are good, some may be less good. I have a good proposal: I think it is unreasonable that a small minority of voters who cross a ballot can put themselves on a majority that does not. I find that unreasonable. However, all such things should be discussed in a context, and sadly, a parliamentary committee is needed that talks long and turns the issues around. In the end you will find something that is not my dream picture, not Tuve Skånberg's dream picture and not Per-Per-Ingvar's dream picture either, but that is something we can all live with. I therefore support the KU's proposal.
i-f9cde360f649f191-209	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by saying that we, from a moderate point of view, have no claim or reservation on this matter. It was not too long ago that we had a constitutional investigation. As far as personal elections are concerned, which we consider to be a particularly important issue, the current rules have only been applied in one election, namely the last election. I would like to address and justify what we say in our specific opinion on the particular choice of person. All public power is based on the people, and we MPs are the people's main representatives. But very few of us are directly elected by those who go and vote on election day. Instead, the vast majority vote for a party, which in turn elects its representatives and members of parliament. There are great advantages to this but also some disadvantages. We believe it would strengthen our democracy if we increased the influence of the human choice. That would bring us Members closer to those who voted for us. It would increase the power of voters as to which individuals are represented in here. Does this matter, then, beyond the fact that it is democratic in principle? Yes, in substance it would mean a real difference. What each of us thinks matters to what questions our parties are pushing. With an increased election of persons, each of us would also have a little more power towards our parties, if we think differently. I think we all know that, although it sometimes does not seem that way. It can be easy to believe that we as parties always agree and that everyone in the party feels more or less the same, but that is not the case. It is a good thing, and with more personal choices it would be more important and important. With this I have summed it up quite well. If you want to read more, you can look at our specific opinion.
i-f9cde360f649f191-215	Mr President, I would like to We are dealing with the KU35 report, Election Questions, a number of requests for exercise from general exercise time. As we usually do, we reject them. It is a way of working where there are very few movements that get approval. Even motions in our own parties, if they are not party and committee movements, are overlooked. This does not mean that the exercise is useless or hopeless. It simply means that we have not found consensus in the KU on them. That is why we add them to the record and allow them to influence us and our parties for the future. I would like to thank Ida Drougge for her speech just now and welcome her to the circle of KU members and alternates. I agree with what she said. Because she lifted an important thing. The Alliance parties have no reservation on that. But we talk a little about it in a specific opinion. It's about personal choices. I'd like to start by saying that personal choices are difficult. It's hard for the parties, who don't get the candidates they want. It's hard for the candidates. Whether you're higher up or lower down on the list, it's hard– I know it from my own experience. Yes, sometimes I can think it's a little hard for the voters too. But – and that is the great thing – it revitalises democracy. In the past, there were different ways of looking at when to start voting. What's the motive for that? Yes, that could be revitalising democracy. Different balances can be made there. But here it is quite clear. Let's say a human being says, "I want to be elected." I have something to contribute– it's about my personality, my experience and my background. Cuff me! Cuff me! Then people will be activated and think: Who will carry a message to a political assembly for me, for example to the Riksdag? Who's gonna be my man or woman in congress? That's why the choice of person is important. Actually, we have a pretty strong person-choice. In the past, 8 per cent was needed in the Riksdag. Now it's reduced to 5 percent. It is equal for county councils, regions and municipalities. But even 5 per cent of the larger parties turn out to be almost impossible to reach. In my own party, which does not yet belong to the larger ones, it is possible. I have a number of times been incised in person in the Riksdag. But if you are – in plain language – moderate or Social-Democrat, it is almost impossible. Is that really good? No, even the Social Demo crates and the Moderates need the stimulus that it means that the candidates are allowed to stand on their toes and show: I am the one who is to bear the commandments and bear the party's politics. If it had not been the case that we had shown respect for the work of the Fundamental Law investigation, which ended as late as 2008, only ten years ago, we might have reserved for this. We don't now. But we say: In the future this could be discussed in the committee that Hans Ekström outlined, which is possibly not very fun and stimulating but which is still necessary in the work of democracy. Then one could weigh the advantages and disadvantages and perhaps adjust these figures a little more. With this, Mr President, I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-f9cde360f649f191-222	Mr President, I would like to In brief, I would like to present a unanimous report, the obligation of professional secrecy in Parliament, the KU7, and to ask for its approval. This matter is a little special in the sense that it is an initiative of the Constitutional Committee itself. In 2015, the Constitutional Committee decided to instruct an investigator to carry out a review of Parliament's rules on confidentiality in a committee or in the EU Board. The investigator would also propose legislative changes that were deemed necessary. The starting point of the mandate was that the current provision should be adapted to the working arrangements used by the committees and the EU Board. The investigator would also consider how to delimit the circle covered by the provision. In June 2016, KU took note of the investigator's proposal through the report Review of the provisions on professional secrecy in the Riksdag. The proposal was then referred for a referral. On the basis of the views expressed by the consultative bodies, the Constitutional Committee's office has continued to develop a legislative referral. The Council has left the proposals unremembered. This happened in November 2017. This is quite a big job, not least for the KU's office. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank the Office of the Constitutional Committee very much for its solid and successful work. There are many of us who are aware of the great workload of the Office on this issue, but also on all the other issues that we are dealing with. It is gratifying to see that it does not go out on the quality of what is produced – thank you! The proposal that we now have before us and which we are to decide on is a return to what has been in force in the past. All members and alternates of a committee or of the EU Board shall be covered by the obligation of professional secrecy, not only those who have attended a meeting of the committee or the board of professional secrecy. The same applies, where appropriate, to this House. Officials, already covered by the OSL obligation of professional secrecy, are proposed to be excluded. In doing so, we hope that the rules will be better adapted to Parliament's working methods. I would remind you that it is a return to what has been in place in the past.
i-f9cde360f649f191-226	Mr President, I would like to The state and the religions have had a very long relationship. I think it has been a big question almost since the beginning of the Riksdag. The big question has always been the question of the relation of the Church of Sweden and other religions to the state. Now something has calmed down, but nonetheless there are proposals. There have been 23 requests for exercise. Mr President, I would like to There is much about the earthly even for the religions. All 23 requests for exercise are about various attempts to remove the church and the religions from the influence of the state. However, the majority of the Constitutional Committee has nevertheless found the situation to be excellent. The 23 requests for exercise have been dealt with in various ways. It has been explained that it may be a little too early and that it is good as it is. It may feel good for a conservative person that little is happening in this area, but nevertheless the Moderates have two reservations. One reservation has the Moderates together with the Christian Democrats. It is a question of the communities themselves being able to determine the amount of church fees. We have suggested that one could say that there may be a floor and a roof. Our motivation is the one we have heard from the active church: If there are very high church fees, the risk is that people will simply leave the church. It is not something that the church wants, but the church wants to be able to decide for itself. That is why I support the reservation on the amount of the church fee. The second reservation has the Alliance together with the Left Party. It's about the church being allowed to decide its own parishion. It is simply a matter of allowing those concerned to say how they should belong to a particular congregation. We're not going to interfere with that on the part of the state. This has been mentioned because, according to the decision on the Church of Sweden, the church cannot decide this by less than that we change the legislation on that point. I support these two reservations.
i-f9cde360f649f191-233	Mr President, I would like to For the motion report on religions and funeral issues, there is a reservation which the Center Party considers to be constitutionally important. This applies to whether the state or the Swedish Church should decide on questions about the members' parishion within the Swedish Church. The report contains two moderate motions on freer, or free, parishion with proposals that the Riksdag should give the Church of Sweden the opportunity to decide on a freer, or free, parishion. The Center Party believes that a free parishion within the Church of Sweden would lead to more people leaving parishes in the countryside to become members of parishes with low taxes. Many rural communities that already have high taxes would then find it even more difficult to maintain their activities. From a constitutional point of view, the Center Party believes that it should be the Church of Sweden and not the Riksdag that decides on matters concerning the church's members' parishion. We therefore support reservation 3 on the right of assembly to decide. However, I would like to stress strongly that the Center Party is not seeking free membership of the assembly, for the reasons set out here. For constitutional reasons, as I said, we still see that the Church of Sweden should have the right to decide on these issues.
i-f9cde360f649f191-237	Mr President, I would like to I have written three things here: freedom of association, logic and consent to reservation 3. We in the Left Party think it is reasonable for the Church of Sweden to decide for itself how to make its divisions in parishes. After all, we talked about freedom of association in another report here, and there does not seem to be any logic in what contexts we think associations should decide for themselves and when they should not. For us, it is completely uninteresting what the division into congregations looks like. Contrary to previous speakers, I have no opinion on the substance of the matter. It is irrelevant, because the important thing is that the Association of the Church of Sweden itself can decide how they do their division. That is why I am in favour of reservation 3.
i-f9cde360f649f191-240	Mr President, I would like to In this report we address issues ranging from the position of the Church of Sweden to the size of the church fee. I will focus on the fact that it is high time to free the Church of Sweden, which could in fact be seen as an alexander hem on all the issues in the report. That's how they'd have been solved. The religions are a central part of civil society and should as such have good opportunities to operate. The state is secular, but this does not mean that one therefore has no responsibility: The State's responsibility is to secure a free religion – or none at all – and thus not to take a stand for a particular religion or certain communities. It was through the church-state reform in 1999 that the relationship between the Swedish Church and the state was fundamentally changed. The Church Act with its roots in the 17th century as well as the state's participation in decisions regarding the inner activities of the Church of Sweden were abolished. This was something that the Liberals, who have deep roots in the fight for freedom of religion, had been working for for a very long time. However, the reform did not mean that the special government of the Swedish Church ceased completely. While other communities freely choose their own organisational form, there is a special law on the Church of Sweden that regulates in detail the structure of the community, the duties of the congregation, the role of bishops, the decision-making powers of the council, and so on. The Act on the Church of Sweden can be seen as part of the broader compromise that in the 1990s made possible the change in relations between the state and the Church of Sweden. For us liberals, however, it is clear that this is only one stage on the road towards the Swedish Church achieving full independence on the same terms as the other religions in Sweden. In order for the Church of Sweden to be completely free from government control, the Liberals therefore believe that the special law on the Church of Sweden should be abolished. The Church of Sweden, like all other communities, should have full freedom to determine its own activities. It is its members, not the Riksdag, who will decide the community's choices on religious matters. We are fully aware that the abolition of the Act on the Church of Sweden may lead to adjustments in other legislation. However, this in itself does not affect the responsibility of the Church of Sweden as regards the funeral system. Nor does it affect the ability of the communities of faith to obtain assistance from the Tax Agency in collecting membership fees, as this is regulated by other legislation. With that, Mr President, I would like to endorse reservations 1 and 3.
i-H178N61k6vrmDj61aT36qD	Mr President, I would like to The KU29 Faiths and Funerals report deals with 23 requests for exercise. They are centered much on the position and decision-making rights of the Church of Sweden. I would like to declare that the Christian Democrats stand by the agreement reached at the end of the 1990s, which constituted a separation between the church and the state and which was carried out in 20 00. So it's only been 18 years. The previous speaker outlined a 400-year history. However, it goes even further back if you count your fingers. In this context, 18 years is a very short period of time, and we do not want to be involved in or change that. However, we want to make it clear that the Church of Sweden is allowed to handle its affairs. Where Parliament has the opportunity to intervene, we want to say in two reservations that it should not do so. One reservation is about the size of the church fee. There is the central sentence: We believe that the Church of Sweden should have the right to decide its own affairs on its own. That is where the support of the Christian Democrats ends. That's what we think when it comes to church fees. With regard to the right to decide on the membership of the assembly in reservation 3, to which I hereby request approval, Mr President, it states that the Parliament agrees with what is adopted in the reservation and announces it to the Government, namely that the legislation should be amended in such a way that the Church of Sweden has the right to decide on the affiliation of the assembly and considers that the Riksdag makes this known to the Government. There are pros and cons, but the Swedish Church should have a free parishioner. I myself have been a member of such a congregation – the Amirality Church in Karlskrona – which is linked to those working within the Swedish Armed Forces and their families. There are the Finnish congregation and other congregations as well. That's one way to do it. Then, as we heard from Per-Per-Ingvar Johnsson, there are disadvantages for small parishes, for example. If you make these balances, you have to decide somewhere, but it is not up to the Riksdag. Therefore, although I personally have an opinion and possibly my party, I refrain from thinking for myself. This is therefore nothing for the parties of the Riksdag to have views on, but it is something for the Swedish Church to decide for itself. I request the approval of reservation 3.
i-DFPbnXSrxEu4SijFEEfpqx	Mr President, I would like to We continue to debate the Constitutional Committee's report 29 on religions and funerals. During the general period of exercise, as we heard, the members of Parliament made 23 motions on these issues. There is therefore quite a lot of interest in discussing the issues and expressing different views. It's not that hard to understand, I think. These subjects basically touch the innermost thoughts, thoughts of life, and what follows. These are issues that deserve respect and reflection, while at the same time a certain amount of social organizational realism must be pushed in order to ensure that the organization of the organizations that faith gives rise to in the form of religious communities and the creation of their rights is as good and generally accepted as possible. Even questions about how to take care of the dust after those who left us deserve of course great respect and reflection in order to maintain a funeral activity that is characterized by dignity and the piet. The understanding that what is perceived as right for one person at the same time can be uncomfortable or even offensive to the other is great in committee, and it feels good. Several athletes and reserveers have made proposals concerning the inner life of the Church of Sweden. Since it was separated from the state, the Church of Sweden has its own regulation in law. The proposal that is most supported, if not reached a majority in the committee, is about the Swedish Church being given the opportunity to apply free parishion. I choose to raise this particular issue because I think it clearly illustrates how we want to see the state's relationship with the Church of Sweden. Our position is that such changes as are requested by the reserves should be requested by those concerned, in this case the Church of Sweden. The Church of Sweden has not expressed that this would be a change it wishes. I therefore suggest that those who want to bring about a regulation similar to the one asked for commit themselves to the Church of Sweden – if they are members – and there push for change. With this brief speech, Mr President, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject all reservations.
i-Fe2pQXMC5qpkSCBAAQU6tf	Mr President, I would like to Yes, we are now debating the KU29 Faith and Funeral Affairs, a motion report with proposals from the general period of exercise this autumn and autumn 2016. The questions that come up are not new, but reflect the debate that has existed since the church was separated from the state and the way in which it was carried out. I think you need to remember that there were big and practical things to handle then. There was a lot of activity, a lot of staff and facilities and forests that the church managed. The risk of in any way overturning this extensive activity was great, so a compromise was chosen. It is a compromise in which the state retains a little control through its own legislation for the Church of Sweden, which states much of the foundations of the church's organization but where the church still receives a certain amount of self-determination and support to raise money. I believe that this is hardly the last time that we are debating these issues in Parliament, but today I would like to call for the motions to be rejected and for the committee's proposals to be approved.
i-f9cde360f649f191-266	Mr President, I would like to Many of the speakers in the previous debates today have taken an exemplary approach. Unfortunately, I have to say that there is a risk that I will exceed my speaking time by a minute. Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by calling for the approval of reservations 2 and 3 in this report. We have one more reservation, but for time winning, I only agree to reservations 2 and 3. This year something extra fun happens. I am not thinking primarily of the elections, which many might think about now, but I am thinking of the Winter Olympics in South Korea. An Olympic is not only exciting but also fraternizing. All the nations of the world have the opportunity to share in showing off their various athletes. There is no doubt that such an event has an extremely high public interest. Therefore, it is urgent that as many as possible be given a chance to follow it on television. The last time it was the Winter Olympic Games, television viewing was tricky because a commercial company had acquired the rights to the Olympic Games. As a result, 15 percent fewer TV viewers were able to access the broadcasts from the Olympics than in previous years. According to today's media, SVT has entered into an agreement with Discovery, so this year many of the games will be broadcast on public service television. Nevertheless, we find it unfortunate that so many people's opportunities to see the games depend on the goodwill of commercial companies. We therefore believe that a national event list should be drawn up as soon as possible. Such a list should include the major sporting events and classical parades, such as the Olympic Summer and Winter Games. A list of this kind would in practice ensure that as many people as possible in our elongated country will be able to take part in the Olympic Games ahead, not only those who can receive certain channels on their television. Mr President, I would like to From things you want to watch on TV to things you don't want to see. SVT's mission is to communicate news and social information in a neutral way. As we all know, this is all too often the case. For these occasions and in other cases where it is considered that there is inappropriate content in different television channels, there is the Audit Board. It is available within the Swedish Press, Radio and Television Agency as an independent decision-making body. The Board examines whether the content of radio and television programmes complies with the rules applicable to broadcasting. The members of the Audit Board are appointed today by the Government. The Swedish Democrats believe that the Board's activities are less satisfactory, especially the Board's review of possible violations of the broadcasting permits' clauses on impartiality. In order to remedy this, the members of the Audit Board should instead be appointed by a parliamentary group, and the decision should be taken by us here in Parliament. Furthermore, we believe that the penalties for programme operators who are guilty of serious violations of broadcasting licence conditions must be tightened. Mr President, I would like to SVT may have a lot of problems with impartiality but is hardly the worst. There are media companies which, through dubious methods, have put in a system of bullying and hanging out opponents of opinion – although these people are not public in the same way as we in this House or known to the general public. In practice, when a person considers himself or herself to have been the victim of slander or other unfair treatment of the media, it is difficult to obtain redress. The Chancellor of Justice, JK, is the government authority that oversees authorities, regulates claims for damages against the state and is a prosecutor in press and freedom of expression cases. According to JK 2016 Annual Report, 274 cases related to freedom of expression and press were dealt with. Of these, only twelve investigations were opened and five went on to prosecution. Four of these five prosecutions were about incitement to ethnic groups. So it is not a far-reaching assumption that people who have been rewritten in an offensive and unsympathetic manner in constitutionally protected media have rarely received any redress. The Swedish Democrats believe that the media have a fundamental responsibility to report objectively and impartially. This is particularly important when it comes to clean news reporting. No human being, regardless of his position in society, should be subjected to unsubstantial journalistic methods, biased journalism, or severely integrity-impaired treatment that far exceeds what can be considered justifiable. There are currently some built-in functions in the media aimed at contributing to some self-remediation, such as the Press Ombudsman and the Professional Ethics Board of the Journalist Association. In addition to this, there is, as I said, the Audit Board, which is a state authority. Despite the fact that these bodies exist in order to try to guarantee good journalism, confidence in Swedish media is far from as high as it should be. The lack of trust is likely to be attributed to what these bodies are set to counter, namely poor journalism and a direct unwillingness on the part of several media players to write objectively. Instead, there are more and more examples of media acting on agendas and inappropriately and conducting biased journalism. Our view is therefore that the government should investigate how a better balance can be achieved between the constitutional rights of the media and the rights of those who are subject to media scrutiny to avoid abusive and unfair treatment. The study should come back with concrete proposals that will greatly simplify the way for those who wish to have their case examined without in any way risking financial damage. It must also be ensured that those who are supposed to review the media do so completely impartially. It is crucial for us that the reviewers have integrity and enjoy a high level of public confidence.
i-f9cde360f649f191-285	Mr President, I would like to This report on mass media issues has a reservation from the Center Party on the importance of regional news coverage. Major and rapid changes are taking place in the media area. As a result of digital developments, the media world has broadened and more information is available. At the same time, many local offices have been closed down. There is a tendency for the media to become narrower and news consumers to turn to media that confirms their own world view. The Center Party believes that rapid action is needed to ensure access to comprehensive and independent news coverage and opinion-forming throughout the country. Access to local journalism and the co-distribution of mail and newspapers is essential. The government is reviewing this, and it is important that there is soon a proposal that will ensure better access to local journalism and that everyone can take part in the digital society. With regard to the introduction of an event list, which Jonas Millard mentioned, this is a proposal that I have been involved in investigating a few years ago. The proposal was submitted to the government, but it is still with the government to be prepared. From there there has been no proposal. I support the Centre Party's reservation on this matter.
i-f9cde360f649f191-290	Mr President, I would like to An open and democratic society must always nurture its instruments and tools in order for it to remain an open and democratic society. I, too, have personally been very offended by things that have been in the newspaper or reflected in the media, but for that reason I will never feel anything but that freedom of speech and press are tools and instruments for democracy and debate. It is just over two years since the KU held its hearing on threats and violence against journalists. Since then, the government has made a number of efforts to create security and facilitate journalists to operate both internationally and nationally. This is an awfully important piece of work that must continue. It is also just over two years since the KU jointly piloted through the previous bill on pre-aid and development aid, and we will have to deal with another such proposal during the term of office. I feel confident that it is happening in the same way as before, with a desire to give and take and to agree on what we all want: journalism of good quality and conscious and active citizens of society who are allowed to share in news – while not turning a blind eye to a development that we neither want nor can stop, namely our changing behaviour as news consumers. Development has not improved in the difficult parts. The generation gap in newspaper reading and news consumption is bigger than ever. The old models of daily press funding have largely fallen, and we all see the consequences of this. Local and regional news coverage is important – we fully agree – and also bear the weight of the press support, from the time it was invented, but also from now on. This is also regulated in the broadcasting licence for public service. When I read the Center's reservation, I wonder what the Center really means with the sentence: Everyone should be able to take part in the digital society. ..................................................... I was therefore going to use a minute to tell you what the government has actually done. If the Center had known about it, I don't think the sentence would have been included in the reservation. It is quite obvious that the aim must be for all citizens of our country to be able to access the media via digitalisation. Example:
i-f9cde360f649f191-298	The Government has commissioned the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency to ensure that individuals and companies without access to telephony and/or basic broadband connectivity of 10 megabits will receive support so that they can receive this. Where commercials are unable to do this, society should go in. Until 2019, the Government annually invests SEK 21 million in regional broadband coordinators that will be promoting. There is a concrete example. My childhood village has about ten resident households, and I think we will get broadband before I get it in my overnight home in the Old Town. It's a fantastic development where people see that it's really happening. 中 Sweden will get world-class broadband. Targets are high, and the methods are many. The aim is that by 2020 95% of households and businesses should have access to broadband at a speed of at least 100 megabits. It's working on this, resources have been set aside and things are going to happen. As far as the co-distribution of newspapers and mail is concerned, Postnord currently has such enormous problems and difficulties that it may not be the top priority task. On the other hand, we must ensure that people receive their newspaper, if they continue to choose to have it in paper format. There is one thing on which we can fully agree. Mr President, I would like to I firmly believe that we have a government that does not fear the future, that does not want to go back in time, but that addresses the challenges of constructive and funded proposals and efforts in the media market. With this, Mr President, I am in favour of the proposal in report 31 as a whole.
i-f9cde360f649f191-305	Mr President, I would like to The existence of local newsrooms throughout our country is extremely important if we are to maintain a vital democracy – news desks that can review the authorities and authorities, journalists who can boil down and describe even complex issues in a way that allows the public to understand what it is about, journalists who can raise issues that are early in the political decision-making process so that people can react and act on the proposals and editorials that can describe what the political contradictions are and describe what the different parties have in mind on issues so that people can make informed choices, not only to the Riksdag and the County Council, but to every municipal council around the country. It is therefore a worrying development that we have seen in the country in recent years. Many local offices have been reduced to a minimum, and many have had to close down completely. The reason for this development is to a large extent that advertisers have withdrawn the resources and advertisements from the daily press to direct their efforts online to the digital giants. With lower advertising revenues, there will of course be reduced opportunities to hire journalists and have powerful editorial offices. The Red-Green Government was very aware of this problem when it took office, and it acted quickly. A first bill was written about improvements in pre-support, and after this, Minister of Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke appointed a media support investigation that worked on the mission to find media support that can also work in the future in a digital world with significantly changed conditions for news media. The investigation presented its proposal at the end of 2016. After this, a consultation session was held in which the proposals were pushed and wet. Some parts of the proposal have been criticised, while others have been highlighted as important or even necessary. The Government Office and the Ministry of Culture are now working on developing a bill that hopefully can be presented here in the spring. On the basis of the preparation that is being made, there is no reason to approve the motions that have now been tabled on the matter. I therefore support the proposal of the Constitutional Committee, which rejects these motions. I have good hopes that this will be a good result, not least because we have already taken an important decision on this issue, namely in the budget decision last autumn. In the 2019–2020 framework, the allocation of the resources identified by the study is necessary to cope with wider media support. With financial resources in place, I am convinced that we will be able to find with common forces a political majority for broader and improved media support. I call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-f9cde360f649f191-312	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to debate mass media issues. A viable, free and independent press with local guarding and anchoring, where skilled journalists can operate freely and protected, can sum up the liberal vision of our mass media. Unfortunately, we can see dark clouds today, not just on the horizon towards Hungary and Turkey. Even in the great country of the West, there is now a president who is waging an open war against established media. In Sweden, we also hear a debate in which some people want to reduce the role of our free media in the social debate and which is fueled by political forces who apparently believe that the role of journalists is to be propaganda machines, something that the same voices in themselves are already accusing established journalists of being a. But then it's not their propaganda machines, and as a result it's wrong with the media– you hear how it sounds. The Presiding Committee, the Media Investigation, the Parliamentary Public Service Committee, assignments to the Swedish Press, Radio and Television Authority are just some of the latest groupings that have had the task of investigating the state's support to the media and the requirements to be imposed on them. It is not out of interest that the motions have been rejected, but it is because the committee does not want to anticipate the results of the investigations or the preparatory work that is going on. It is clear, however, that it is a delicate task to have a system that is technology neutral, covering the whole country, that is quality driven and that creates diversity – many voices – instead of centrally written material that is only erected in various editions around the country. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has a long tradition of standing up for journalism, because most of us realise that free opinion formation is part of the foundation of Sweden's democratic governance and that freedom of expression and expression are prerequisites for free opinion formation. For this reason, media policy must have a clear link with the way in which freedom of the press and expression works, not only constitutionally but in practice. I don't know about you, but I remember exactly what I did on 7 January 2015 when the terrorist attack on Charlie Hebdo in Paris was cabled out all over the world. I also remember where I was when I heard that the legendary radio correspondent Nils Horner had been shot during a mission for Swedish Radio. Every single violent crime in society is hateful, but the violence against our journalists is so much more than that. It will be a direct threat not only to the individual – the journalist – who is forever silenced, but to our entire open society. The threat does not have to take as extreme forms as it did in Paris or against Nils Horner. Threats are also directed at the local journalist in the small local newspaper, to the extent that it still exists, in order to scare and silence. In order to prevent a development in which freedom of opinion is threatened by self-censorship and reduced attractiveness of the journalistic profession, an investigation should be set up to investigate the need for further measures to safeguard freedom of expression and the press and to develop preventive work against threats, violence and other attacks against journalists and media intervention. The investigation should, of course, be seen as part of democracy policy and the work for a free and open society. Such an investigation should, of course, be carried out in close consultation with journalists and industry representatives in order to take note of the many experiences and ideas that exist in the profession and that we, as a committee, have heard at our meetings with those very people. The Government has now taken action, including through the action plan adopted in July 2017, which will involve a more systematic approach to preventing threats to journalists. Linnéuniversitetet has also been commissioned to identify and develop competence development efforts aimed at journalists and editors to prevent and manage threats and hate. In addition, the Police Authority shall report by March 2019 on the measures taken by the Agency to combat crimes that threaten the free formation of opinions. It is gratifying that the alliance parties therefore no longer have to agree to their motions and reservations against the government's proposals. Now we have a government that has raised the issue to the level that it hopefully deserves to be at. Therefore, the alliance parties will continue to monitor the work instead of calling for their reservations to be accepted. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the report.
i-f9cde360f649f191-322	Mr President, I would like to The Constitutional Committee's report 31 on mass media issues deals with some thirty requests from the general period of exercise. I would particularly like to highlight a committee motion, 2016/ 17:3286, from the four alliance parties with Andreas Norlén as their first name. Request 1 of this motion calls for an announcement to investigate the need for further measures to safeguard freedom of expression and expression and to develop work against threats, violence and other illegal attacks against journalists and media intervention. The Alliance parties go into detail on how to safeguard the protection of journalists and media editorials. It is with pleasure that we have been able to note that in our discussions in committee we have reached a consensus. This is not party separation, but it is something that we all support. That is why the committee is taking a joint position in which we note that the government has taken a series of measures to prevent and deal with threats to journalists and media editorials. Through the action plan adopted by the Government in July 2017, the Government has started a more systematic work to prevent threats to democratic dialogue. The Government has also commissioned Linnéuniversitetet to identify and develop competence development efforts aimed at journalists and editors to prevent and manage threats and hatred. In addition, the Police Authority shall report by March 2019 on the measures taken by the Agency to combat crimes that threaten the free formation of opinions. Criminal law protection against privacy violations is strengthened by the Government's legislative proposal in 2017. For this reason, the committee is of the opinion that this motion does not need to be approved. It's basically already been catered for. Like the previous speaker, not least Tina Acketoft, I would just like to emphasise how extremely important the free press is. We see how attempts have been made to limit the free press, and examples have been mentioned from the United States. That is not acceptable. We want to stand up for the free press, and we want security and security for journalists so that they can work. That is something that the Constitutional Committee jointly supports and works for.
i-f9cde360f649f191-326	Mr President, I would like to I have many good memories from quite a lot of different practices that I have had. My very first was in the local bookstore in Lidingö city centre during the great annual book sale. It was a lot to do and really fun. I wasn't allowed to stand in the register, and I wasn't allowed to work night when the book sale started. But I had to stack, carry, sort, and put huge amounts of price tags on all the literature. One of my first jobs was due to what I could show that I had done during two weeks of prao. It was a job that in several ways also made it easier for me to get my second job. In a way, it can be said that it has brought me here where I am today as a Member of Parliament. I was in charge of the Central Office of the Moderate Youth Association. I had to clear, copy documents, compile press clippings and register a lot of members. I was there early, and I went home relatively late. I made friends that I have left for life. Today we are going to debate and vote on the bill put forward by the government, which is mostly about prao. The bill is called Strengthened link between school and working life. The title sounds very good, I think, because we really need a stronger link between school and working life. Unfortunately, fine words in a title are not enough. I, and we from the Moderates, believe that this bill is unfortunately in danger of becoming an empty blow in the air. In its proposal, the government wants all students in grades 8 and 9 to have at least ten days of prao. It also wants to regulate that in the contracts that are written for pupils who take an upper secondary school apprenticeship there should be written in advance when the students have their workplace education, the APL. We of the Moderates and the Alliance see some problems and disadvantages with this. Firstly, we believe that there is a risk of being too square if you need to specify in advance exactly what times a student should have the APL. If this is done too early and if you need to print out the exact times and times already at this contact, there is the risk that these APLs will not happen. We think it would be better to have a bit more flexible legislation, where, of course, it should be that everyone has the right to the workplace time that they should have but where you do not need to have decided in advance exactly what times it should be. We are concerned about this and therefore have a reservation on it. Secondly, Prao is very good – as I said myself – but that is not the only way to learn the orientation of working life. We have visited many schools that today work more with study visits as a complement or alternative to prao. Thirdly, which relates to what I have just said, this is something that schools are doing because today it is very difficult to find good praosites. Many companies – and also schools – are afraid of not being able to meet the safety requirements of the Swedish Work Environment Authority. Many schools are also severely criticized for not being able to guarantee that all places are safe for the students. This makes it unreasonable to make demands of at least ten days of prao in a situation where this may not happen and since it may be completely impossible to fix these places. Being able to do so takes an enormous amount of time and administration from already heavily burdened teachers. We from the Alliance have made the priority that this is not what our teachers and schools should primarily spend a lot of time on. It is important and good, but there are also other ways to do this. Above all, these obstacles need to be reviewed and removed before strong legislation is put in place. We wish it had been done in the first place. The government could have done the same, but unfortunately this has not been done. As for the internships that I myself have had, I do not think I could have worked in these places today, and if I had done so, it would certainly not have been legal. I worked more than six hours. You can't do that. I wore heavy. You can't do that. I also wore it repetitively – you definitely can't. I don't think I got any review of fire protection regulations and other safety regulations. I wasn't in the cash register. I wasn't allowed to, but I had to try it. You definitely can't do that when you're 14 years old. The type of prao that is often important and that gives effect cannot be achieved in today's system. We need to correct this first, and that is why, unfortunately, we have had to agree to our reservations. I wish we had not had to do so and that we could have agreed on this proposal, because basically we agree that we need a much stronger link between work and school.
i-f9cde360f649f191-343	Mr President, I would like to All pupils should be able to have the opportunity to make informed choices about further education and vocational orientation. In order to make wise choices and choose your own future, you need to have knowledge and have been given the opportunity to try it out. Only then can you be given real freedom of choice. The proposal we are debating today is called "Strengthening the link between school and working life", and now we are strengthening equivalence and freedom by introducing mandatory prao in grades 8 and 9. I would like to support the proposal in the committee's report and reject the reservations. Mr President, I would like to Cooperation with the world of work is already evident in both the regulation and the primary school curriculum. There are, as the previous speaker said, a lot of study visits, entrepreneurship projects, visits to the school of industries and so on. Central to all of this is that we have a well-functioning study and career guidance. Schools that have a good and well developed work with SYV contribute to students' freedom and opportunities. It is therefore gratifying that the Government has set up an investigation to strengthen and develop study and career guidance. The investigation will be presented in October. An important part of giving students the opportunity to learn about further studies is prao – practical working life orientation. Therefore, more than eight out of ten schools in a practical sense have maintained prao since the 1990s, although it varies in scope. From an equivalency perspective, it is important to improve access to prao so that all pupils have opportunities for concrete and real contacts with the world of work. As a social democrat, I am convinced that compulsory prao for all students has a positive meaning, while the bourgeoisie is anxious, or worried, as Ida Drougge said. I, too, intend to take the liberty of telling you about my own prao, at Humlegården in Vingåker. Already in eighth grade, and later in ninth grade, I had the opportunity to discover that working in the care of the elderly is the best and funniest job in the world. What was also good was that the manager had a chance to discover me. I got a summer job in care for the elderly and was one of the youngest who has ever worked in care for the elderly in Vingåker. He had to make a plan and adapt my working hours, but I promise that both me and the users, or whatever one should call these older people, had a wonderful summer with excursions and activities. We went to Sponge in Örebro and had fries and sausages. I'll never forget it. They'd never seen fries before. That's great. I'm sorry I swear to God. I had the opportunity to try something I had no previous experience with. It was good for me, and it's been good for thousands of others. It was then, and it's possible now, 40 years later-- that's crazy! It is of course very important to guarantee the safety of students during the prao period. The Swedish Work Environment Authority has regulations on the working environment for minors. The Swedish National Agency for Education also provides support and information on what this means for young people in working life. The Alliance has reservations and wishes to investigate the matter. There's no need for an investigation. We've been doing this for a hundred years, at least. 80 - 90% of schools offer the opportunity today, as I said. However, there is an appendix to the Swedish Work Environment Authority's regulations, AFS 2012:3, which completely prohibits hazardous tasks for minors but allows others if you have supervision. What is prohibited is, among other things, exposure of wood dust above the limit value, work that may pose a risk of contact with infectious agents, work with asbestos, diving work, work on transporting money and guarding work. Prao does not, of course, mean that you can try all kinds of jobs and all tasks. That is why I am in favour of having the opportunity to offer prao on a professional programme. I want to tell you about a way they work in Katrineholm at Ellwynska health and social care college. In cooperation with the municipality's health and care management, they arrange summer courses for students in grade 8. For five days, the young students receive an introduction to the profession with both theory and workplace visits. They'll meet with medical dogs, emergency services and ambulance staff. They also get job shadow staff who are out on regular jobs. That's one way to try. Today, the school's health and social care programme is the programme that has the most applicants in the catchment area, and about 30% of them are boys. I think a large part of the secret behind the high search pressure for the last autumn was that they had so many qualified first-hand applicants. Collaboration between comprehensive school and upper secondary school is central in many different ways, and this is one. I shall now turn to the part of the bill dealing with training contracts in apprenticeship training. We propose that the length of the training as an apprentice should also be specified. The bourgeois government introduced the Act on Upper Secondary Apprenticeship and later also the Act on Apprenticeship. It was said that it would come back in a regulation, when it was considered important that the time frame was clear to both pupils and businesses. That was a wise reason. Of course, it should be clear to schools, apprentices and companies what is expected to learn a job. Not specifying how many hours the apprentice should be in the workplace is flum. Therefore, I am incredibly surprised that the bourgeois are now all of a sudden opposed to this. I can't interpret it in any other way than that the bourgeoisie doesn't think that all students should be entitled to a schedule – right? For me, however, it is self-evident that you should have the right to a schedule and clear requirements, regardless of whether the learning takes place in school or in working life. In addition, it clarifies the student's employment status at the workplace. I now return to telling you about myself to clarify what I mean. When I went to the nursing school to become a nurse, I practiced Monday – Friday daytime. Sometimes I worked on weekends and holidays and got paid. It was clear to me when I worked during Easter, when I got paid. It should be clear to us Social Democrats that what is not part of education should not be included in a training contract, but in a contract of employment.
i-f9cde360f649f191-365	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by clarifying which reservation I am calling for, namely reservation 2 endorsed by all the alliance parties. We therefore do not need to vote on all points. I would also like to thank Caroline Helmersson for bringing up two good things, first a proposal in the bill Strengthening the link between school and working life that we have been moderate to pursue for a long time. We think it's a good thing that this is happening. The second is that this is now also addressed with study and career guidance in the current investigation. It will come at the end of March, I think, a memo about it, and I look forward to reading it. It is also good that the government has chosen to continue with the SYV lift introduced by the previous alliance government. But I think it's a bit of a pity that Caroline Helmersson Olsson is a little suspicious of our intentions with our reservation on upper secondary education. You also say a little bit about yourself when you point out that in a regulation we have previously stressed the importance of a clear schedule. Of course, students should have a schedule when they start school. The question is when in time the exact times should be fixed. That is where we are concerned. But the government will be happy to disprove us. Let this work! Of course, we'll be happy.
i-f9cde360f649f191-369	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the opportunity to continue discussing this. The committee's evaluation and follow-up of SYV will be in March, and the government's investigation will be in October. We have really had a consensus here. This is very important, so we will of course do everything we can to make it work. Ida Drougge says that the training contracts will be so complicated, but they already exist today. It should only be made clear what is work and what is education. I don't think you have to be so worried about that, because it actually works pretty well today. I didn't hear any more questions. But then I can take this opportunity to ask Ida Drougge a question. You want to investigate the health and safety regulations of minors. What exactly is it that you feel you need to look further at in AFS 2012:3? Ida Drougge took some examples of what you can't do as a prao. I can't find them in the work environment regulations. What do you want to investigate?
i-f9cde360f649f191-373	Mr President, I would like to Many schools, the vast majority of them, send various papers and forms to employers when students themselves apply for prao. There are fairly clear instructions on what to secure as an employer before the praon begins and during the praon. I don't know if Caroline Helmersson Olsson herself has received trainees here in Parliament. But I have received trainees both here and at many other workplaces. A little depending on the school and the workplace, those instructions may make it almost impossible to accept a praoele student. Instructions follow the schools to make sure they've done their job. They should actually also make a visit to the workplace before and approve the environment themselves in order to guarantee it. I've never seen that before when I've accepted prao students. The Swedish Work Environment Authority also criticises many schools for not making visits to the workplaces. It is easy that it is not at all equal, since in most cases the students themselves have to arrange their prao. Often they get the place through contacts that their parents have. Then one could say that it increases the inequality that exists right from the start. If students have parents with an academic background, they visit such a workplace to a greater extent, and if they do not, they visit other types of workplaces. We think it is important that schools take responsibility in these situations, and that is not happening today. It is not true that 80% of all students have prao today. Perhaps 80 percent have the opportunity to apply for and arrange prao themselves, but it is not the same.
i-f9cde360f649f191-378	Mr President, I would like to No, exactly, and that's exactly why we're putting forward this bill to make it equal and so that students don't have to go to their parents. That's exactly how you described, Ida Drougge, and that's why we're strengthening this. I cannot answer for all forms, but when it comes to the risk assessment of workplaces, both the school heads and the trainees have a responsibility. This is part of the systematic work environment work that all workplaces should do. It is not on an individual level, but it may be that the school makes a visit to make sure that it has done its part. I think this will be good.
i-f9cde360f649f191-381	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we support our particular opinion. A stronger link between education and working life is something we have been advocating for a long time in different ways. Today, we have problems with pupils choosing professions where there is an urgent surplus of labour and too few choose professions where there is a sharp shortage of labour. This is a major problem for our country, and a compulsory prao is a small step along the way to at least give students a chance to see the reality behind certain professions. Of course, many more measures are needed to fill the gaps in areas where there is a shortage of labour. It is also important, as the proposal points out, that it is the school's job to arrange traineeships, not for parents. This does not mean that no parent can help when it is appropriate and practical, but responsibility should lie with the school. Many say that the obstacle to obtaining internships is the rules that surround prao. However, if you read the regulation presented in the report, for example, you can see that it seems quite reasonable, so there are some who suggest that it is the interpretation of the rules that is inadequate. I have talked to employers who could accept prao students, but they blame that the regulations put a stop to it. I hope that the government does not feel any prestige in this matter but can review the problem, if you now want good internships for all students. Otherwise, we have nothing to contradict the proposal. When I and others here went to school there was mandatory prao, and there was nothing special about it. What worked in the past must be able to work today. I guess someone got hurt on a prao, but from what I recall, it was extremely unusual. After all, we cannot have 100% guarantees for all activities. Well, then we'll have to close it all down. So today we have come to pick up things we used to have at school. It's the imprecise paleness of thought. With a little self-criticism, perhaps we should admit that we have implemented reforms a little too quickly and unthinkingly over a period of time. Those who built the unitary school at one time were not idiots, and those who run the school today are not geniuses compared to yesterday's rulers.
i-f9cde360f649f191-389	Mr President, I would like to I'm not a replicator, and I don't like standing here. But I had to take a line, because I had to get a clarification from Robert Stenkvist. Stenkvist talked about interpretations of the rules. However, your specific opinion states that the current labour market rules make it difficult for companies to accept pupils and that you therefore see a need for regulatory simplification.
i-VNFuv8z64K4RZ1peJqR4dU	What exactly in the Work Environment Act or regulations do Robert Stenkvist and the Swedish Democrats want to change?
i-f9cde360f649f191-391	Mr President, I would like to If there are problems with labour market rules, they need to be reviewed, and there is certainly some problem with labour market rules. But as I said in the speaker's chair, there are problems with interpretation. This morning I read an article on prao in the newspaper Arbetsliv, and it was very detailed about the rules that exist. They are not so different the rules that existed when I made prao once, but of course some things are different. There was also a great deal of detail about how schools misinterpret that they should make sure that the workplaces are safe. Many principals believe that schools themselves must check that the workplaces are safe, but that is not the case. This is an obstacle and it is a matter of misinterpreting the rules. Now there will be prestige in this, as I said in my speech. If there are rules that go too far and prevent prao, why not look over them without prestige? If there are problems, change the rule. If the schools interpret the rules incorrectly, the Swedish National Agency for Education may inform the schools about what applies. I don't see any weirdness in it.
i-f9cde360f649f191-395	Mr President, I would like to We have a very good system for this in Sweden. We call it the Swedish model, and it is the parties that together come up with different labour market rules based on laws that we pass in the Riksdag. It's not about prestige, it's a very successful model we have. I know that the Swedish Democrats want to upset and upset workers' opportunities and that you want to do things in the labour market rules. However, the fact that it also applies to underage children in high school – it is about a work environment law and a regulation – was an interesting piece of information.
i-f9cde360f649f191-397	Mr President, I would like to Oh, please! We want there to be no obstacles to getting students into internships. This has nothing to do with the rest of the labour market rules. We haven't thought about it. This isn't serious. We want students to have the opportunity to get out on internships, and when we talk to some employers they have said that they want to receive trainees but that the rules are a little too tricky. We have also read the rules and checked what various bodies say, and it seems that schools misinterpret the rules. The fact that we want to change the rules of the labour market has nothing to do with this at all. We haven't thought about it. I find it strange to applaud such a line, if we are to be serious. Although we are entering an election movement, we are not going to take the turns too much.
i-f9cde360f649f191-400	Mr President, I would like to We have now moved on to the Social Security Committee's reports. The first concerns residence and work permits for intra-corporate transferees and is based on the implementation of an EU directive, the ICT Directive. On a quick look at the matter, it may at first seem harmless. In the vast majority of cases, these are reasonable opportunities for specialists, people with special managerial positions and so on within companies mainly active outside the European Union to work temporarily on Swedish land if a division within the company needs to undergo, for example, a structural change or something like that and therefore needs special expertise. But it is not the case that the proposal as such is therefore a good one. We also need to look at the concrete legislative proposals that exist. In our opinion, it is, firstly, regrettable that this should be decided at all at European level. Secondly, however, we can note that the government has not taken advantage of the opportunities provided by the EU directive to influence this in order to maintain a high level of security and control, an orderly migration to our country and an orderly labour market policy, despite all the fine words that this is what you are trying to do. Mr President, I would like to After this brief introduction, I would like to support our two reservations in the report. The first simply says that we cannot accept the law as it is designed today and that it should be rejected. The second highlights some of the things we think it is particularly important to modify before returning to Parliament with a more reasonable proposal. First of all, we can see that there are several consultation bodies which have consistently pointed out that it is unclear on a number of separate points in this legislation. The fact that consultation bodies ask for clarification is something that is recurring when reading the bill, and unclear legislation is rarely good to implement. There are also consultative bodies who point out that this could risk undermining and eliminating the current rules and having completely different effects, which one may not have been aware of or aimed at, because one is trying to push this forward. Certainly we are late in complying with the directive, but if we are already late, we can probably be a little late and ensure that we get good legislation included. We can look more specifically at some of these shortcomings. It is a matter of such a thing that, under the directive, the country of destination can demand that the person who comes to the country have comprehensive insurance. An employee of an undertaking and a specialist should reasonably be insured with sickness insurance either by that undertaking or through private insurance. There are many such solutions. The point is, it's a temporary stay in our country. Sweden should not have to take over the insurance cover of a foreign citizen who is here for a short period of time with a special assignment with his employer. But the government has chosen to settle for only applying for insurance. It's a maybe small but still obvious flaw. Sometimes it takes time to get the insurance in place. Then what happens during that time? Should Sweden be obliged to bear the costs that may arise during that time just because it took some time before the insurance came into place? No, we think it is reasonable to make demands that all such things be arranged before coming to our country. There are also opportunities to impose restrictions on the possibility of bringing your family here. Of course, you don't usually want to break up families. But this is about people who are employed and who should reasonably be able to support their family if they bring it here. In fact, we have supply requirements in Sweden, at least in some cases, although it is clear that they also need to be strengthened for other forms of migration to our country. Under the directive, there is a possibility to impose supply obligations on the family members the person brings here. However, it has chosen to look to the side and not to include these requirements in the draft legislation. Most serious, however, is the fact that a number of different parts of this legislation have been made optional, that is, voluntary. It is a question of whether you can refuse a residence permit or withdraw the residence permit that has been granted. It is voluntary to withdraw a work permit if it turns out that the conditions that would apply were never fulfilled, did not exist. The person should be able to stay here anyway. The withdrawal of that residence permit shall be entirely voluntary. It is certainly mandatory to refuse a residence permit or withdraw it if the person who comes here to work poses a threat to society. But it's voluntary for the family members. Mr President, I would like to This is not a well-thought-out, thorough and complete proposal. There is certainly a good approach, and this is an important piece of legislation to have in place if it is well-functioning. But this is not a good proposal. I therefore propose rejecting the proposal. Come back with a proposal that takes advantage of the opportunities we have to secure our country and keep track of migration policy and the labour market!
i-f9cde360f649f191-410	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is one of the world's leading welfare nations. As we heard in the previous debate, the Swedish model is one of the success factors. It is about strong social partners, a general well-being and order in the economy. But Sweden's success and strength are also due to the fact that we are a country that has been able to attract and welcome skills and talents from other parts of the world for a long time. We have successful companies that find managers and specialists. We have companies from other places that choose to establish part of their business here in our country. This creates jobs and makes Sweden stronger. When I listen to the criticism of this proposal, it surprises me. Here we have a directive in Europe which aims to facilitate, streamline and enable companies to move managers and specialists within their activities without being restricted by national borders. That's good, and it's very clear. We have an almost unanimous committee behind this proposal. When I take note of the attempts of the Swedish Democrats to identify what they think would be the problem, it becomes clear to me that this does not really apply to the proposals themselves. You react with your spinal cord. You hear the word migration and you're against it. If you have in your party's DNA the attitude that strangers are something that doesn't bring talent or development to Sweden, it's really easy to land in saying no to this. But if this line were to get a majority here in Parliament, it would throw Sweden into a position with less competitiveness and less opportunity than other countries to attract and welcome managers and specialists. This in itself would impair both the economy and growth. I am surprised that this report chooses to be against something that is about clarifying the rules of the game and enabling better mobility for the companies that have these needs. I support the proposal in the report.
i-f9cde360f649f191-413	Mr President, I would like to It was an exciting speech. I hope I'm better at listening than Fredrik Lundh Sammeli is. I heard that Fredrik Lundh Sammeli spoke about clarity being good. What I said was that on numerous occasions in this legislative process, numerous consultation bodies have pointed out that different things are unclear and that clarification of how legislation should be interpreted is needed. It is not a question of being against specialists being able to work here for the time needed, or for that matter even longer, if it is the case that you move here permanently. In that case, it is another legislation that applies. This is not at all about it. I think that Fredrik Lundh Sammeli can listen to his own speeches when we have discussed labour immigration and think about where he stands when it comes to bringing workers from other countries here. It is about the need for clear legislation. Let me ask you a straight and concrete question. Why is it not optional when it comes to the foreigner himself who is here to work? If it constitutes a threat to national security, the residence permit shall be revoked. Why is it optional, that is, optional, if the family member poses a threat? It is exactly the same threat letter and the same wording. In one case, it is voluntary to withdraw the residence. In the second case, it is stated that if the person is a threat to Sweden's safety, the person should not be allowed to stay in the country. It is this kind of mistake that is found in several places. It's unclear, and it doesn't make sense. It is a premature piece of legislation because the implementation of the ICT Directive has been delayed. I take it that is because we are already behind schedule. Then you make a slaf work to get something in place. But it is not clear, sustainable or consistent. That's what I'm questioning. Why make a difference between the two cases? Why is it voluntary in one case but mandatory in another?
i-f9cde360f649f191-417	Mr President, I would like to Both the government and the committee make clarifications and respond to some of the criticisms that the Swedish Democrats have chosen to highlight. If we take health insurance as an example, the committee points out that it considers that it is sufficient for that category in the situation of applying for health insurance. If we look at the debate on labour immigration, we in committee agree that we need to get to a situation that is not digital, on or off. The problem of labour immigration today, which we have tried to deal with in broad agreement in committee, is about getting the overall assessments. It will be very strange to be against that part when the committee points to the need for an overall assessment. When it comes to the threat to national security, I think that here too it is clear what applies, how other directives meet it and why they land in that assessment.
i-f9cde360f649f191-420	Mr President, I would like to Since it is now so obvious and clear, Fredrik Lundh Sammeli is happy to explain to me: Why is it voluntary to withdraw a residence permit for a family member if that family member poses a threat to national security? Why is it not voluntary but mandatory if the worker poses a threat? Are workers automatically always more dangerous and need to get out right away, but if a family member poses a threat, can one take a little slow? Why do you make that difference? It's a very simple question. It is very easy to see the legislation that that difference is made. It is also obvious that one has tried to think about using optional grounds or not. In the case of workers themselves, there are a number of paragraphs dealing with the compulsory withdrawal of residence permits, and there are a number of those dealing with the issue of freedom of movement. There is somewhere some kind of thought behind this, but I do not agree that it is clear. I'd like to hear that you say exactly what you mean. Why is a person a greater threat to national security if it is a worker here than if it is a family member? Why should we with certainty withdraw residence permits and work permits in one case but not in the other? I have never received an answer to that question either here or in committee.
i-f9cde360f649f191-424	Mr President, I would like to There can be no doubt that there is broad agreement in the Swedish Parliament that people who pose a threat to our country should not be present in our country. This is a directive that focuses on the manager and specialist for whom the legislation is intended. It is about facilitating the possibility of working within companies in Europe. With the overall assessment and the wording that exists, I think it is clear which regulations should apply when it comes to both the individual and a possible family member. Similarly, in her speech, Paula Bieler chose to raise the supply and the difference. This is another area where it is a matter of coordination and clarity. It is important not to have a jungle of differences in legislation. It is about seeing: what are our demands on labour migration? What are our requirements and regulations for the EU Blue Card? What are our requirements for ICT parts for managers and specialists? It's a matter of coordinating it. For me, therefore, it will be clear and orderly by means of the directive on which Parliament now has a position. There, all parties in the committee, apart from the Swedish Democrats, see that we want to facilitate that competence and talent.
i-f9cde360f649f191-427	Mr President, I would like to In December 2009, i.e. at the final stage of the Swedish Presidency of the European Union, the European Council adopted the so-called Stockholm Programme. The EU's demographic problems were as alarming at the time as they were now, and the solutions proposed by the Stockholm Programme concerned, inter alia, labour migration and a more flexible integration policy – with a view to improving the EU's competitiveness and economic development. Labour migration from outside the EU was thus one of the issues that the Heads of State or Government called on the European Commission to continue working on at the December 2009 summit. At the bottom of the SfU's report No 10, which we are discussing here today, is an EU directive which can be regarded as the answer to that particular call. Combined residence and work permits will facilitate intra-corporate transfers of managers, specialists and highly skilled trainees active in third country companies and groups. They should now be able to move more easily to the EU and within the EU to work there in the same companies and groups they worked in at home. In plain language, this may mean, for example, that a trained specialist at Ikeavaryhus in China can take his family and skills with him and move to Sweden to work here for longer or shorter time on Ikea in Älmhult, for example, and then perhaps move on to Ikea's operations in Italy or Spain. Mr President, I would like to From the Alliance, we have worked hard in the Riksdag for several years to ensure that Sweden provides better opportunities for labour migration, especially with a view to professions where Sweden has a shortage of labour. Because, unlike illegal immigration, which is to be combated, legal labour immigration is something that contributes to the development of a country. Labour immigration revitalises the economy and makes people and countries intertwined. Labour immigration is synonymous with a successful integration policy. The ICT Directive itself, which we are discussing in the report, sets the legal framework for the conditions to be met for third-country nationals to be granted a combined residence and work permit in the EU. The directive also regulates what applies to family members who accompany with others. Then the EU Member States have some room for manoeuvre for their own solutions to translate the directive into national and, in this case, Swedish law, and there is no objection on the part of the Alliance to the model chosen by the government here.
i-f9cde360f649f191-434	Mr President, I would like to I am not going to drag this debate out. I apologise in advance for slipping a little outside the scope of this particular matter. But I couldn't help noticing when I heard Maria Abrahamsson say that labour migration is synonymous with a successful integration policy. Does Maria Abrahamsson mean that as soon as a person comes here as a labour immigrant, it is also a successful and integrated part of society, not in exclusion, feels at home here and all that is usually referred to in ordinary people's mouth when you talk about a person being integrated?
i-f9cde360f649f191-436	Mr President, I would like to I am talking about legal labour immigration, Paula Bieler. I think everyone knows that a job on a legal basis – a fair job – is the way into a new society. That's my answer to your question.
i-f9cde360f649f191-437	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maria Abrahamsson, for your answer. I think it is good that as many people as possible hear this answer and can say that according to at least Maria Abrahamsson, and perhaps also according to the Moderates themselves, it is enough to have a legal job in Sweden to be integrated. The fact that this is the road to successful integration is not something on which everyone agrees. This is an important step – absolutely. It facilitates in many ways – absolutely. But there is also a lot of research that suggests the reverse: when you get into social contexts and when you get into society it also becomes easier to get a job legally. That's where you find connections. It is about causality, correlation and all this, as we know. There was at least a while ago quite little research to prove that just work in itself is giving way into society. There are probably quite a few people who have come here legally to work, and who have also worked here legally but who have nevertheless ended up in alienation. This may be because there are rather bad conditions in some places, that you do not get into the majority society, that you work in separate sectors with separate conditions and so on. But I think it is good to clarify here from the Moderates that you still stand by what you have said all along: it is only the work line that applies. If you have work and do it legally, the others don't matter. Then you're integrated.
i-f9cde360f649f191-441	Mr President, I would like to I'm not going after Paula Bieler. I think what I said from the beginning will have to stand for itself. If you have a legal job in Sweden, according to very many, not least according to the individual himself, it is a good way into society.
i-f9cde360f649f191-442	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation in the report. Today we are debating the Social Security Committee's report on the National Audit Office's report on housing allowance. Mr President, I would like to For a prosperous society, the Swedish Democrats believe that healthy families are a basic prerequisite. For many parents of young children, everyday life can sometimes be tough, not least for low income earners and single parents in particular. Being for your children in joy and sorrow, supporting children in school and in life among friends, getting all everyday routines to work with more – it can be tough enough for a parent. In addition, having to worry about whether the economy of the month should go together or whether the money is enough for clothes for the start of the semester or for the winter season is a stress that as few families as possible – and preferably none – should have to experience in Sweden. Housing allowance is an important contribution for many economically vulnerable people in Sweden, especially families with children and women. In December 2016, 81 per cent of households with household-dwelling units were children's households. Of these, 72 per cent were single parents with children. The housing allowance thus forms an important part of the disposable income of many families. This is especially true of single parents, who are to a large extent women — single mothers. The Swedish National Audit Office makes three clear recommendations to the Government. The first is to take greater account of the national standard of financial vulnerability when determining income limits and levels of housing allowance. The Swedish National Audit Office therefore believes that since increases made have been less than wage developments, and to some extent price developments, the housing allowance is in danger of being eroded. The report we are debating today therefore proposes that the housing allowance be indexed so that it follows the development of costs. This is a good thing, and it is something that the Swedish Democrats have also proposed not only with regard to the housing allowance, but also with regard to maintenance support, among other things. In fact, I cannot understand why people who are covered by this type of financial support should have to see their economy deteriorate in line with inflation year after year. At very uneven intervals, when some politician discovers that the levels need to be adjusted and make political decisions, these people can then push out for a while before inflation again starts to get reminded. I do not see any logical explanation for delaying this process. It should be straightforward to link this type of remuneration to an index, thereby saving both work and the concerns and financial vulnerability of many people. Mr President, I would like to It is precisely the proposal on indexation that we believe that the government should lift out and deal with quickly without a lengthy investigation. Since the housing allowance is a allowance tailored to the needs of the most vulnerable, it is possible to significantly improve the income of vulnerable families without entailing an excessive total cost. For example, if you implement the Swedish Democrats' proposal for the 2018 budget when it comes to investing in the housing allowance over the child allowance, our initiative could lead to a household with a monthly salary of SEK 10 000 getting a strengthened income of SEK 8 500 per year, i.e. about SEK 700 per month. The total cost of this reform is around 1 billion for 2018. That is something we believe the government should be able to afford if it makes the right priorities. Mr President, I would like to In addition, the Swedish National Audit Office presents the need to review how accurate the housing allowance is in order to reach households living together with children. Since the housing allowance is a means-tested grant, it can be a good tool to really support specific groups that are vulnerable. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, one of the most vulnerable groups is just living together with children. But the contribution can be made even more accurate to reach these groups. In our motion, we believe that the government needs to become even clearer with priority target groups, where people living together with children and single people with children should be among the priorities. The Swedish National Audit Office also highlights the need to review whether the housing allowance for young households without children is effectively designed from a labour market perspective. The Swedish National Audit Office highlights the problem that young people without children who receive housing allowance can, to a greater extent than people with children, compensate for the removal of housing allowance with earned income. This shows that housing allowance can keep people out of the labour market. The report also highlights young people and people who have recently immigrated to Sweden as two groups where the labour market establishment is particularly slow, which can lead to socio-economic costs. We therefore consider it of great importance that the government carefully examines the issue of the proper design of the housing allowance to provide adequate financial support, while not making it more difficult to establish the labour market by reducing the economic drivers of employment. The housing allowance should also not hold back people who have recently moved to Sweden from entering working life – an important part of getting into Swedish society. According to the Swedish National Audit Office's report, the increase in immigration in recent years may mean that the number of families with children and young households with low economic standards increases, and thus also increases the number of households eligible for housing allowance. The budget proposal for 2017 mentions that households where one of the parents is born abroad are at higher risk of low economic standards. The report also shows that the total number of individuals living in households receiving housing allowance may increase by 200,000 over the next ten years, which means that the number of housing allowance recipients after 2020 is expected to reach the highest levels observed since the early 2000s. Therefore, we believe that if the government is now to investigate the housing allowance thoroughly, it should also investigate the possibility that the housing allowance is linked to Swedish citizenship. However, we believe that one should of course be able to assimilate Swedish welfare systems if one works, and of course those who are not citizens but have the right to be in Sweden should be able to have the basic needs met via a special system. As I said, the Swedish National Audit Office raises important questions about indexing the grant so that it gets better accuracy for families with children and about eliminating negative labour market policy effects. We believe that the government should take on these tasks urgently. Well-being families are, as I said, the basis for a prosperous society, and housing allowance can make a big difference for a vulnerable family. By doing so, they can have a decent life with accommodation adapted to the needs of the family and financial support that reduces the financial pressure. Housing allowance is also a benefit that benefits many women, since the majority of single parents are mothers. If gender equality is important to the government, I think that priority should be given to tackling the issue of housing allowance quickly and without delay.
i-f9cde360f649f191-457	Mr President, I would like to We are therefore discussing the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the housing allowance, which shows that the housing allowance during the last 20 years has fallen sharply below wage development and has fallen behind. Of course, it is worrying, but perhaps not so surprising when you consider what economic development has been like during this period. Many have been better off, but during the same period we have seen that the gaps have increased and that many have not benefited from the successes. It is no wonder that people receiving support from society lag behind if financial support is not increased at all or sufficient or, as in some cases, even deteriorates while other groups are getting better off and rents and prices are rising. This applies not only to the housing allowance but also to other parts of the welfare system. This is a development that we Social Democrats want to put an end to and which the government has made several important efforts during the parliamentary term to break so that gaps are narrowed and security is increased. The Swedish National Audit Office's review shows that it is an increasing proportion of households with housing allowance that is below the limit of what we usually call low economic standards. It is an indication that, when the housing allowance has fallen behind, it has been concentrated in an increasingly narrower group and that today, to a lesser extent than in the past, it has the effect of helping to lift families up above the limits of low economic standards. With the development described by the Swedish National Audit Office, I can conclude that there have been very well-motivated improvements that we have made during the parliamentary term. The income limit of the housing allowance was raised last year so that more families with children with lower economic standards could benefit from and benefit from this support. We did this simply because we saw that wage and price developments have been much stronger and have contributed to fewer families having benefited from this support. We have recently decided to continue with increases over the years 2018 – 2021 so that it will be further improved and include even more. In order also to improve the accuracy with regard to divorced parents, the benefit is also increased for parents who have children who live at times in the household, and we also introduce a new special part in the housing allowance for parents who have children who live alternately with their separated parents. This is something that has not existed before and which, of course, will help to ensure that even more people are covered and the conditions are a little better for more families with children. The Swedish National Audit Office's description of the housing allowance in this more general economic context I find myself very interesting reading. Among other things, it is noted that the redistributive effect can be improved. In short, you can say that the housing allowance is very accurate in that it reaches the right people, i.e. families with the lowest incomes, but that it no longer meets everyone who needs it and perhaps not enough. This is something that needs to be reviewed, and there seems to be a broad consensus on, as well as on the design from a labour market perspective, not least for young households without children. Mr President, I would like to Housing allowance is an important part of the income of many families with children. Perhaps it is particularly important for single people with children, where the economic standard of living is often more vulnerable. The housing allowance is part of the distribution policy, which is a cornerstone of the Swedish welfare model. It helps to smooth out gaps and improve conditions for ordinary people. A society that holds together feels better than one that is torn apart in divides. We Social Democrats know this, and that is why we are concerned when redistributive effects are reduced. That is why we are tackling these challenges by, for example, turning budget deficits into surpluses and investing in welfare rather than, above all, reducing taxes most for those who already have it the best. Therefore, we also share the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment that there is a need to review the construction of the housing allowance, but we believe that this should perhaps be done with an even greater perspective, with a broader approach and together with the maintenance support. According to the Government, for example, the regulatory framework should be designed to be more neutral in relation to different types of housing and to reduce the risk of indebtedness. But also the question of the target groups, which have been raised here, should be considered in the context of a broader review. It is assumed, I would say, for the intended reason, of course, always to be done as quickly as is possible. Fortunately, there is a broad parliamentary consensus on the way forward, so, Mr President, there is little more for me to say at the moment than to call for approval of the proposal in the report.
i-f9cde360f649f191-475	Mr President, I would like to Teresa Carvalho highlights the problem that the housing allowance has fallen behind for many years and has not followed wage developments. She also highlights certain improvements made by the government. It is good that they have been done, but despite this, the National Audit still criticises the fact that the housing allowance falls behind and is eroded and that it would have to regularly follow wage developments and be indexed. Now the housing allowance will be investigated together with the maintenance allowance, where we have also proposed indexing so that it will not have to lag behind and then some point decision is made on when it has fallen behind again, as this means that many families end up in a vulnerable situation and it will be far too long before a decision is made on an increase here in the Riksdag. My question is: When the housing allowance is to be investigated, can we expect the government to come back with a proposal where it will continue to be indexed so that it will regularly follow wage developments and not lag behind and be eroded in the way that the National Audit Office criticizes?
i-f9cde360f649f191-478	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish National Audit Office points to a number of points that have been seen when examining the housing allowance. Among other things, what I also talked about is that it has fallen behind when it has not been raised sufficiently and to the same extent as wages and prices have developed in society. It is probably the Swedish Democrats who have landed in a specific indexation model. The Swedish National Audit Office, on the other hand, explicitly states that an increase in the housing allowance may have unclear effects, such as marginal effects. I am guessing that the Swedish Democrats do not have answers to exactly what indexation would have to do with these parts. This is also part of the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations. I understand that the Swedish democrats have landed in a particular indexation model, but I think that if we want to achieve success in getting more meat on the ground with this idea, we would also agree to review rather than reserve ourselves against the answer given by the government, which the whole committee agrees with, namely that we agree with the pieces that the National Audit points out that the housing allowance has fallen behind. That is why we want to proceed with a review. For me, it becomes incomprehensible why the Swedish democrats in that situation reserve themselves.
i-f9cde360f649f191-482	Mr President, I would like to The reason why we have reservations is that we have not received a response to our motion that these recommendations should be implemented urgently, that it should not be preceded by too long an investigation and that we particularly want a concrete proposal to index the contribution. We do not think that is clear in the answer given to us in the report. If you do not do this, the contribution will continue to lag behind. Even if point increases can be made, they will lag behind if this is not done regularly. My question is again whether the government will be willing to come back with a proposal to actually index. Regardless of what the Swedish National Audit Office says or does not say, my question to the Government is whether it is a proposal you might consider coming back with to solve this problem.
i-f9cde360f649f191-484	Mr President, I would like to I understand that there may be a twitch in the opposition political nerve, but in this particular case I have to say that I think the conflict that Julia Kronlid is trying to paint is getting a little stressed. The logic is also not easy to keep up with. You don't want to drag this on a long bench through investigations, but other parts of what the Swedish National Audit Office points out will be investigated very carefully. The Swedish National Audit Office says that there is reason to review the construction of the housing allowance. The government agrees with that. The committee also agrees. That is why we intend to review and come back with more precise details on how changes could be formulated. That is precisely why a review is being carried out. As I said, the Swedish Democrats are trying to paint a conflict that hardly exists. It also gets a little silly when the Swedish Democrats at the same time try to put this against general improvements in welfare, such as child benefit. I can draw a short parallel there. The child benefit is now increased, for the first time in many years, by SEK 200 a month and children. The Swedish Democrats said no to that. It could not have been done if it had been indexed. If this is put in a broader perspective, then it is not entirely clear why the housing allowance, but not other aspects of child and family policy, such as child benefit, should be indexed.
i-f9cde360f649f191-488	Mr President, I would like to I represent the alliance parties jointly in this debate. We support the Social Security Committee's proposal in the report on the National Audit Office's report on housing allowance. We share the Swedish National Audit Office's and the Government's assessment that there is a need to, among other things, modernise the regulatory framework. And we welcome the fact that a review takes into account the Swedish National Audit Office's conclusions and recommendations. It should also be stressed that such a review must continue to ensure that the design of the aid has an appropriate balance between, on the one hand, fulfilling its redistribution policy objective and, on the other hand, ensuring that the financial incentives for work are maintained. With the few words, I would like to report that the alliance parties are behind the committee's proposal in the report and refer to it in general. As the debate has come to be about housing allowance in a broad sense, I would also like to remind you briefly that KD is pushing for the so-called children's part of the housing allowance to be increased, based on the way in which the housing allowance system is designed today. Together with a broad tax reduction aimed at parents working, it is part of our policy of strengthening families' finances. Overall, these changes would contribute to greater economic margins and empowerment for the country's families.
i-GLUZo1JiXy5ZF1Z4nr2h4M	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for approval of the Social Security Committee's proposal in the report on the National Audit Office's report on local authorities' allowances for migration and integration and calling for rejection of the Centre Party's reservation. The state compensates the municipalities for the reception through some thirty compensations. In 2016, the Finnish Immigration Service paid more than SEK 20 billion to municipalities for asylum seekers and SEK 12 billion for new arrivals. Approximately 130 year-olds handled the compensations h os Migration Agency, and about 490 year-olds did the same in the municipalities. It can be seen from the report that most compensations require an application procedure with different requirements at a detailed level and that municipalities perceive the regulatory framework as difficult and complicated. This, in turn, leads to delayed payments, as in many cases applications may contain errors or need to be supplemented. As the compensation system is often complex, it is not surprising that the municipalities find it difficult to apply it. There is therefore every reason for the government to take measures to make it easier for the municipalities. Mr President, I would like to It is therefore positive that the Government appointed the Receiving Investigation in November 2015. It will, among other things, make proposals on how the state compensation to municipalities and county councils should be designed, in order to streamline and simplify the system. It will also propose how flat-rate payments can be used to a greater extent. The assignment shall be presented by 31 March 2018. The Government also believes that there may be reason to monitor the costs of municipalities. The design of possible follow-up is to some extent linked to the design of the compensation scheme. However, several reports have revealed difficulties in monitoring the costs of municipalities due to the lack of, for example, data on the costs of different types of services and their distribution among different groups. The municipalities also have different systems for monitoring and accounting. The Government also shares the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment that the current design of the compensation system entails significant administrative costs for both municipalities and county councils. However, the Government considers that there is a continuing need to clearly target funds for certain activities. The security of the system needs to be balanced against a simpler system that is more based on stencils than at present. But it needs to continue to be targeted. That's where the difficulty lies when this is to be weighed together. The government has already taken measures to simplify and streamline parts of the compensation system. These include the new compensation system for the reception of unaccompanied minors and young people, which entered into force on 1 July last year. Mr President, I would like to It should also be said in this context that the Swedish National Audit Office has sent out a survey to the municipalities. The responses show that the majority of municipalities estimate that the compensations for 2016, the year that has thus been reviewed, met or exceeded the costs of the reception. However, there are large differences between different types of municipalities. A majority of municipalities in metropolitan areas estimate that the overall compensation was lower than the costs, whereas the opposite was true among sparsely populated municipalities and smaller cities. It may be interesting to investigate why the assessment is different in urban areas and in sparsely populated and smaller cities.
i-f9cde360f649f191-500	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats will not take part in the vote on this issue. The background to it is really quite simple. This is a letter. The Swedish National Audit Office has carried out a review of the municipal selection system. As so often when the Swedish National Audit Office conducts its audits, it starts from how directives and policies are designed today, from the purposes and from how it could be made more effective. The views of the Swedish democrats differ somewhat from those of the other parties in terms of how the compensation system should be designed at all, what costs are reasonable to reimburse and who should bear the main responsibility. In the way the policy has been conducted, that the level of reception has been decided at state level in practice through the rules that have been set, we believe that the state should bear all the costs. The entire reception system should be radically rebuilt. In such a situation, to go in and poke into details on how to streamline localisation, if one is to standardise one or the other, is to focus on the wrong tasks. What is needed is a proper review of migration and integration policies. What do you choose to spend Swedish tax funds and resources on? What do we want our migration policy to look like? If the Swedish Democrats had had more power in this country and if our policy had characterized this area, there would not have been a need for that kind of massive compensation system at all. Then we would have had a migration policy that worked and that meant getting into society in a completely different way, and large compensations for debts built up as a result of irresponsibility would simply not have been needed. If there is a vote on this issue, which I suspect is because there is a reservation from another party, the Swedish Democrats will, as I have said, abstain. There's no point in picking small details. An overall review is needed.
i-f9cde360f649f191-505	Mr President, I would like to After all, we are discussing local government arrangements. I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Centre Party's reservation in the report. The Swedish National Audit Office's report shows that the design of compensation systems has resulted in significant administrative costs, and this affects both central and local government costs. Application procedures have also led to increased costs. Instead, the Center Party wants more flat-rate compensation and there should be no application requirements – this in order to remove much of the administrative burden and to create better planning conditions for municipalities. With this, I would like to endorse our reservation.
i-f9cde360f649f191-509	Mr President, I would like to In today's report, we are the only party with a reservation. In my view, there are two reasons for this. The first is that the other parties are waiting for the final product from the investigation currently under way on the future public service and want to see what the possible proposal contains. The second reason is that it is satisfied with how public services operate today. The first argument I can buy. We know that all parties support the new financing model, but what part two says – that is, the very content of public service governance – is not as obvious to predict. Mr President, I would like to I want to make it very clear that I believe in an independent television and radio. I think it is important to have access to programmes that are not sponsored or biased, and I think it is important for us to be able to see cultural programmes and programmes that otherwise had not been produced or shown. In an increasingly polarised media world and with an ever-widening diversity of opinions and reports, it is increasingly important that public services remain strong as an impartial actor. But I have also been disappointed several times on elements or reports that have proven to contain factual errors despite the knowledge of the editorial services. It's human to do wrong. However, it can be harmful in the long run if we ignore the facts of a service funded by our citizens, not least with tomorrow's potential tax funding. A section of the Opinion live program that was broadcast two weeks ago shows such an example where the editorial staff broke in their reporting on the situation of refugees in the county of Staffanstorp in Skåne. Fortunately, a factual correction was made the following day, but it should be expected that the facts put on the editorial board, which are the truth, would have been reported on live television. This shows the great impact of media pluralism. The so-called alternative media were quick to correct the factual error, as was the municipal councillor himself via his Facebook page. The importance and need for a well-functioning review model both before and after programme elements cannot be stressed enough. Here comes our reservation, which I would also like to endorse. It is about us wanting to also review the broadcaster's web content. There is a lot of content on the web today that is not broadcast and therefore falls outside the control of the Audit Board. We believe it is important that the web is also reviewed on its content about impartiality and objectivity. Even broadcasters want this in order to restore their confidence in these very areas. Mr President, I would like to It can be regarded as remarkable that not all parties are represented in today's debate, a debate that is taking place outside the walls of Parliament on the future of public services and, not least, governance. Many editorials and debaters try to highlight the discussion about, among other things, funding, which seems to have come as a shock to a great deal, and the constant reporting of the so-called left-wing twist. It would have been nice if even the smaller parties were represented in today's debate to show that they support the basic principles of impartiality and, not least, to show their views to those who are conducting the debate outside these walls – especially given that several bourgeois debaters, including a representative of the Youth League of the Center Party, criticise the left-wing distortion of public services. But maybe that's where the problem lies. The National Center Party has no proposals to address these problems. Do you have concrete proposals for an independent public service, or are you too worried about having the courage to take the debate? Several bourgeois debaters problematize and take the debate in society and on leadership sides, but the bourgeois petty parties in parliament shine with their absence here today when they finally have the chance to lift their proposals. The debate on whether public service is impartial and objective will go on for a good time to come. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by being clear about our view of the remaining time in the investigation. We will take a position on the possible proposal when it is on our table. You cannot expect our support unless changes are ensured for a strong independence, for a strong objectivity and for a strong impartiality of public services. In our media movement, we have put forward several proposals on how this can be achieved. Among other things, we want to see greater cooperation between the Nordic public service companies. In short, we want them to review each other, i.e. make so-called peer review. We want to expose corrections both on television and on the companies' websites, and we want the web to be included, as I have already mentioned in our reservation. We want a change in the review board and make it clear that it is factual errors that are to be examined through the main academics in this area. Today's financing model counts its last days. Today, one can show one's dissatisfaction with the broadcasters by cancelling one's TV ownership. With the financing model of the future, this will not be possible. Then it becomes increasingly important for SVT, SR and UR to ensure the confidence of the audience, i.e. the citizens, in the content produced and broadcast. On this point, we will not hesitate.
i-f9cde360f649f191-524	Mr President, I would like to It is time for the annual exercise report on public service. There is a fairly broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament on the importance of public service and on the importance of independent radio and television in public service for the Swedish media landscape and ultimately for our democracy and on how important it is that public services remain independent and protected from pressure in the performance of their activities. However, the existence of broad consensus does not mean that there is a lack of thought and opinion on what framework public service should be given and how it should be financed. This is shown not least by this year's exercise harvest. The existence of a lively public debate on public service is natural and important. The debate needs a lot of votes. I am also convinced that both the status and the position of public service are strengthened by the fact that the business is being debated. The Government decided on 20 December 2016 to set up a parliamentary committee to analyse the conditions for public service broadcasting and propose the necessary changes in order to continue to create good conditions for its activities. The Committee's mission is to propose a long-term sustainable and solidarity-based public broadcasting financing system, but also how appropriate regulation for public services can be designed in the short and long term. Last autumn, the Committee presented its first interim report with a proposal for new funding for public services. There we note that time has run from the current radio and television fee. The time when we gathered in front of the old thick-screen as a technical campfire is past as well as the time when the peckers snuck around in the bushes to monitor us. Now we consume wherever we want, how we want and whenever we want. Whether we consume a particular programme or not, we all draw the democratic benefits of the existence and functioning of public service. The Committee therefore proposes that the current radio and television fee be abolished and replaced by a new public service fee, which is charged through the tax bill, but not with the rest of the state budget. The Moderates have long advocated tax funding but have also stressed that this funding must be designed in a way that safeguards both long-term and continued independence. Objections have been raised that this would be at risk when the Riksdag with a club law can drastically change the conditions for public service while the budget is decided. In fact, however, Parliament can do so even today by regulating the level of the radio and television fee in connection with the budget. In addition, there are other areas that require independence, stability and long-termness and which can be financed perfectly through the state budget, such as the judiciary. We regret that the government was not even prepared to investigate funding from the state budget. It would have been useful if the investigation had been able to investigate and consider without precondition all the funding options that have been up for debate. Instead, the government chose to close that door and only allow the investigation to consider a technology-neutral radio and TV fee, where anyone who owns a smartphone would begin to receive payment cards from Radiotjänst, or a fee in the form of direct-destination tax. Having said that, however, we have taken part in the work on a constructive approach to achieving broad political agreement on long-term funding and independence of public services. Mr President, I would like to The second part deals with the framework within which public services should operate and how the activities should be reviewed, i.e. how the broadcasting permits should be designed and followed up. This is perhaps an even more important task. As I mentioned earlier, we are now consuming radio and television when, where and how we want. An ever-decreasing share occurs through traditional broadcasting. Instead, we do it via various play services in phones, tablets, computers, Apple TV and Chromecast. SVT estimates that around 1.5 million Swedes today only consume their software digitally. I have to admit, I'm one of them. These are not our systems designed for. Today, broadcasters are not able to count back the activities carried out over the network, nor are they subject to any scrutiny. We have established in the Constitution that there is freedom of establishment on the Internet, and that means that we cannot give special permission to operate there or have any opportunity to review the activities. This, of course, is not reasonable in the long term. As I mentioned, this is covered by the Constitution, which means that long-term work is required. But it is also important to see what we can do in the short term, and that is what the Committee is doing now. On the moderate side, we have strongly criticised the fact that the government effectively closes the possibility for the committee to also review how a media-ethical public service system can be designed. For other media there are both press ombudsman and Pressens Opinions board to protect the ethical guidelines that exist and prevent individual citizens from getting caught. Proposals to extend and strengthen the self-regulatory press ethics system to include public services have been made by publishers, among others. However, the Government's supplementary directive explicitly states that this should not be considered in the Committee's work. Of course, considering and making proposals on public service without being able to review the way in which scrutiny and follow-up are to be carried out effectively is unreasonable. We intend to come back to this in other contexts. Mr President, I would like to The third issue I would like to highlight is the responsibility for the media market as a whole. This, too, has been extensively exercised. This debate is about the conditions of public service, but at least as important as an independent public service radio and television are free and independent private media companies. A new media market also has a major impact on these. Advertising revenue is folding, and the transition to digital solutions is hampered by a continued high level of digital VAT, which means that local journalism is being called out. The existence of quality journalism throughout the country is crucial to our open democracy. The fact that the local conditions are not only portrayed but also examined is a prerequisite for a modern non-corrupt society. Public services and the private media sector have different roles in this and neither should nor can be required of each other's responsibilities. On the other hand, they must be given reasonable opportunities to work side by side. I am therefore particularly pleased that three of the Committee's mandates are now to see how public service can contribute to strengthening the diversity of high-quality news media, how to strengthen a viable production market and how to act in relation to commercial operators and distributors. These are issues we are now working on and on which I can promise that we, on the part of the Moderates, will follow closely. Mr President, I would like to The sub-heading of the Public Service Committee's interim report is Much of this is determined by the decisions we take in this House, but in order to achieve high legitimacy, a great responsibility rests with the companies themselves. It is owned by the public, financed by the public and must act in the public service. Then we must also manage and protect public confidence. Therein lies the legitimacy of public services, and without that legitimacy there is no functioning public service. Mr President, I would like to With these words, I would like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved, and I do so on behalf of the Alliance as a whole.
i-f9cde360f649f191-541	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report and for the Swedish Democrats' reservation to be rejected. How important is public broadcasting? How important is it that in a time of algorithms, filter bubbles and disinformation there are independent media that are not influenced by market forces or political propaganda and that challenge our gridded world view? I would say that today is more important than ever. It is a foundation for a prosperous democratic governance that benefits all people. It is about free opinion formation, being able to review power and society's activities and to take part in other perspectives. As the previous speaker mentioned, work is under way in the Parliamentary Public Service Committee. It is responsible, on the one hand, for proposing a new financing model, which has been presented in the interim report submitted to the government on 16 October last year. On the one hand, the Committee has the task of proposing appropriate regulation and how it can be designed in the short and long term. Hence, many physical responses refer to the work being done in the Committee to review many of the issues raised by the exercise. We Social Democrats believe that politics should provide the best conditions for citizens to have access to information, debate and culture that is comprehensive and of good quality. Policy should support creative development for public services as well as commercial media, and one need not exclude the other. On the contrary, more cooperation is needed for more citizens to take part in more high-quality journalism. It is essential to support and develop the conditions for this if we want to ensure the development of a democratic society. Public service activities are regulated in broadcasting permits and grant conditions. The focus of the programme is not determined by the political level. The principle of arm's length is extremely important here. The public service mission means that you should have a wide range of programmes and services via radio, television, web and other forms of publication. It must be characterised by democratic and humanistic values, peoples' education ambitions, diversity and quality, and it must be accessible to everyone regardless of the conditions and background. The companies must reflect and be located throughout the country. The activities shall be conducted independently in relation to political, commercial and other interests in society. In order to ensure impartiality and objectivity, there is the Audit Board, which examines whether the content of radio and television programmes complies with the rules applicable to broadcasting. This is done both on its own initiative and at the request of the viewers. Mr President, I would like to Developments in the media sector are rapid, and digitalisation and internationalisation have a major impact. Facebook, Google and Youtube are major media giants competing with the local newspaper for advertising revenue and space in people's lives. Here too, we need to find solutions that last over time, but one solution is not that public service should not exist on certain platforms. It is very important that public broadcasting is right where the public is. Therefore, it is relevant to be online and also on social media. The extent to which this should be done is one of the Committee's subjects for discussion. It is also relevant to exist throughout the country. Last summer I got to experience something big: SVT opened a new office at Matarengivägen in Övertorneå. Just the feeling of seeing the SVT sign shine there and know that there are media that can report about my everyday life, my life and my community area probably means more than we think. Sharing local news is not just important for those of us who live in the country. It is at least as important to bring local perspectives into the national media. This is how we stick together Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Democracy is the finest thing we have. Democracy requires an independent, strong and broad public service radio and television. Let's protect it.
i-f9cde360f649f191-553	Mr President, I would like to The rapid development of technology is overturning many old things. Truths we have taken for granted for decades suddenly do not really apply anymore, but need to be reconsidered. This also applies to a large extent to public services, perhaps more than many other sectors. Public services are affected by digitalisation. It is therefore a delicate and difficult task that the public service inquiry that is now working to set the framework for the future public service has been given. It's about navigating right in front of an unknown future. Technologies that we do not know about will govern and affect public services opportunities in the future. I will not today go into the parts where the investigation is currently struggling with issues but focus on the part where the investigation has already put an end. This autumn the investigation delivered its first proposal; it concerns how the future public service is to be financed. In brief, the investigation proposes that the TV licence from 1 January 2019 should be abolished and replaced by a fee that is collected via the tax bill but paid to the broadcasters entirely alongside the state budget. In this way, we are creating a long-term sustainable economic solution, unlike today's financial model, which actually does not work anymore. Fewer and fewer households choose to have television, and we cannot have a situation where fewer and fewer people will pay more and more to maintain public service as we feel it today. This is not only a financing model that is financially sustainable in the long term, but the proposal that the investigation has put forward also strengthens the independence of public services vis-à-vis parliament and government. I would think that many today overestimate the independence of public services from the Riksdag. We can only say that we have had to go in and raise the television licence on three occasions during this parliamentary term, simply because fewer and fewer households have television. To compensate for this, the TV licence has had to be increased. What would have happened if a parliamentary majority had not been prepared to make those decisions? The study now proposes that independence can be strengthened in four ways. The first is that an indexation is built into the model itself so that the Riksdag does not need to decide to increase the level of the fee at all in the future. Secondly, the study proposes that the allocation to the broadcasters be linked to eight-year broadcasting permits, which means that the broadcasters have very long planning horizons from an economic and financial perspective as well. Thirdly, these eight-year periods are proposed to begin in January in an election year, instead of in January after an election. In this way, the ability of an incoming government to change public service conditions quickly is reduced. Fourthly, and not least important, it is proposed that no current members of parliament should be able to participate in the boards of the broadcasters or the administrative foundation. It is a long-term economically sustainable proposal which strengthens the independence of broadcasters but which is also more solidarity-based than the current funding system. Today, a single household with a low income pays exactly the same fee as a household with several high-income recipients. By linking the fee to the chargeable income and targeting it to individuals instead of households, we halve the fee of the single household. The fee is significantly lower for those who have a very low income, and those who do not have a taxable income at all receive no fee at all. Back to the questions of independence and to today's motion report. We in the committee have dealt with many motions dealing specifically with the issue of financing. All these motions can, of course, be rejected because there is now an investigation proposal which has been referred and which the government is working on. The plan is to be able to present a proposal in May. But in addition to those exercises, there are also a number of exercises that strongly challenge independence. In these proposals, the motionaries want the Riksdag to take over what is reasonably the publicist decision of the broadcasters. We have a motion from the Swedish Democrats about the Riksdag setting up a framework that says that at least 50 percent of the music played should be Swedish. It would be a manslaughter battle against P2 and the art music played in that channel. Another of the Swedish Democrats' movements is that P3 should be directed to an older audience by re-introducing programmes of the type Discs for coffee and Discs from Vetlanda. Where will the younger audience go? One might think that these are basically harmless exercise. But they put their finger on an extremely serious issue, namely that the Riksdag should not go in and make the publicist decisions about public service. Public service has an important task: to review the Riksdag and the Government. There must be no suspicion that broadcasters do not fulfil this task for fear that a government or certain parties will then come up with political decisions that run counter to the public service. I support the committee's proposal and reject the Swedish Democrats' reservation.
i-f9cde360f649f191-569	Mr President, I would like to It is always as exciting to hear Niclas Malmberg in the debates on public service. Now he is again taking up individual exercises. As Niclas Malmberg knows, you as an individual Member of Parliament have the opportunity to pursue questions in the Riksdag via what is called individual motions. It does not need to be linked to party politics, nor is it in the examples mentioned by Niclas Malmberg in his speech. I ask myself the question: why is it only us Swedish democrats that Niclas Malmberg picks up on individual movements on public service governance and so on? For example, we have individual movements from two Moderates, where the exercisers argue that the government should begin a review of the entire public service. Another moderate says that the public service economy should be reviewed with the aim of halving the cost. Why does Niclas Malmberg not address this in his speech? We also have a center party that wants to sell out the public service companies completely. Why does Niclas Malmberg not address these examples in his speech?
i-f9cde360f649f191-572	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Angelika Bengtsson! The simple answer is that I do not take up those examples because there are no debaters from those parties on the ground in this House. I am not debating if there is no one who can answer my questions. The Swedish Democrats are the only opposition party present for this debate, and I am therefore addressing you entirely. Just a week ago, I had a debate with one of the sportsmen, who has put forward precisely the motions on introducing language requirements for public service and on how P3 will change its activities. That exerciser did not in any way imply that it was a motion that he was behind as an individual exerciser. Instead, he suggested that the whole party was behind it. I have a clear picture that the Swedish Democrats are trying to eat the cake and keep it. They put forward aggressive motions which some Swedish democrats go out and market and talk about, and then they are a little more courteous in their presentation here in the Culture Committee and express a different line. But let us discuss the reservation put forward by the Swedish Democrats. It's extremely strange in itself. We have an investigation that is working on the very issue raised by the Swedish Democrats in the reservation. If an investigation is already working on a matter, the Riksdag cannot go in and give the government an announcement to start work on the matter. You don't speed up the work in any way. What I am convinced that the Swedish Democrats here are trying to do is to paste a reservation on this matter to show that the Swedish Democrats have a picture of public service that is different from the other parties. They want a reservation despite the fact that the content of the reservation is completely meaningless.
i-f9cde360f649f191-578	Mr President, I would like to The questions raised in our reservation we have tried to pursue even before the investigation began. Don't try to do anything else! I think Niclas Malmberg knows that this is the case. We have been pushing for this in this House for a long time. It's just to check the old protocols if the memory fails. Again, it is a matter of an individual exercise. It has nothing to do with the Party. It is not something that I, Mr Aron and our working alternates in the Committee on Culture are doing. We have not even voted in favour of those motions. Neither will we, for it is not the policy of the Party. The party's policy is the one we call for. That is what we refer to in the speaker's chair, nothing else. If Niclas Malmberg has read our field of expenditure motion and our budget, he would have known about it. The question is: has he read our party politics, or is he merely reading the individual motions put in this House?
i-f9cde360f649f191-581	Mr President, I would like to I have read all the Swedish Democrats' movements on public service. Yes, you have pushed on in the matter where you reserve, but you have got what you want! The government is now investigating this issue among other issues. The investigation that the government has set up is also looking at these issues. If the policy that has been pursued has led to the desired result, it is totally pointless to reserve. There must be another purpose for the Swedish Democrats to reserve their seats. The aim is, of course, what Angelika Bengtsson started with. She said that there are two arguments for not going forward with a reservation here: one could be that you respect an investigation, and the other is that you want to show that you have a different approach to public service than the other parties. The Angelika Bengtsson and the Swedish Democrats in the Culture Committee now do is reserve to show that they have a different attitude from the other parties on the public service issue. Then the question is: What is the other attitude of the Swedish Democrats? We have seen the individual movements, but we also hear Angelika Bengtsson talking about that she has been offended when there are errors that have been brought forward in public service and that she wants a different type of regulation. At the same time, we know what developments have been taking place in other European countries where parties with similar ideological superstructures as the Swedish democrats are in government, for example in Poland and Hungary. There governments have stepped in and taken power over what may be in public service at all. It is a development that terrifies and which we are not immune to in Sweden. It is therefore extremely important that we democratic parties continue to promote an independent public service.
i-f9cde360f649f191-585	Mr President, I would like to 中 Stockholm Motala, Stockholm Motala. It is almost winged introductory words from the past times of the radio. At a time when the media landscape is rushing towards new trends and trends and the so-called digital revolution has taken the world by storm, there is reason, especially an election year like this, to make some important flashbacks and outlooks for the future and attach some burning political media issues to our bulletin board. Initially, I would like to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation on broadcasting permits, which my colleague, Angelika Bengtsson, has put out the text on. We are debating radio and television today. What does this mean in 2018? While radio and television are still fundamental media platforms and communication channels, it is under pressure and declining in favour of social media, YouTube channels and internet-based news sites in the wake of the digital revolution. The media landscape is changing, and we decision-makers need to be aware and wise in how we respond to it. Our most important task is to create the conditions for a multifaceted media offering and an infrastructure and to offer tools for source criticism early, for example in school age. Another task is to launch permits and scrutiny functions that have the confidence of the people, while guaranteeing the freedom and quality of the media. On the one hand, the flow of information has been democratized through social media. More and more people can contribute to the joint conversation. On the other hand, the new technology enables propaganda and one-way news to be pumped out and attached without reflecting on the meaning. This takes place from right to left, from public service to alternative media, regardless of colour. Where any actor has a strength and a certain view of the valuation of information and its mediation, any other actor has a weakness but some other strength when it comes to mirroring other perspectives, other angles or another news rating. Media pluralism democratises public conversation. Mr President, I would like to I think there's a longing. It is a longing for objectivity in the media – impartiality, strengthened source criticism, not only among school students but also at editorial and public opinion. It's a longing to punch holes in filter bubbles and fake news and to overall strengthen the formation and educational ideal. What does public service broadcasting mean? The meaning of the public service concept was formulated by the first BBC manager, John Reith, who pointed out that BBC would not only engage in entertainment but also educate and inform listeners. Being in the public service and experiencing persistent criticism, as several previous speakers have mentioned today, must lead to self-examination and self-criticism. To take the impression of how public service channels in our neighbouring countries work, to broaden political reporting and debate with perspectives established among the public as well as to actively and integratedly work with programme ethics and independence in order to avoid polarisation and political unilaterality are some tools that are close at hand. Yes, it is important to identify criticism in order to serve the public and to defend a fundamentally good idea and institution as a public service. Mr President, I would like to The tone is high when it comes to how we decision-makers can and should discuss public service radio and television – which we all agree here that we should at the same time keep arm's length away from. Sketchen, Pitt, in Yellow Dog from 1966 with Tage Danielsson, Birgitta Andersson and Gösta Ekman created such a debate that it was even discussed here in the Chamber, where the revenge instead got the name Fula Dog. Nowadays, the debate rarely revolves around this type of editorial selection, but since the public service offer is such a large part of the public conversation, reaches so many Swedish citizens and is being discussed among the general public, it is not unreasonable for steering documents and control bodies to be discussed in the main arena for citizens' voices in the public domain, namely the Swedish Parliament Chamber. We can, shall and need to debate, evaluate and analyse public broadcasting, not least when it is done by our client, the people of Sweden. We should also be careful not to create A, B, C and D teams among today's media. Of course, honest and high-quality journalistic work should be supported, which citizens should be able to rely on, especially in the media's scrutiny of power. True and false is fundamental to account for, as in free and independent research. It is equally fundamental to defend source criticism everywhere and to suppress false news, regardless of political colour. What is essential is that this should not be perceived as a deliberate fight against young and growing media channels by older, established media in constant development. Let us all take this along with us in this important election year.
