i-a3d72c2ab376980f-9	Madam President, I would like I agree with our reservation, but for time-winning, I am content to support the committee's proposal. When I thought about what I would say in this fourth debate on the activities of the penitentiary that we have during our term of office, I looked through the last four years' annual reports from the Prison Service and was struck by the fact that it is a fairly prosperous activity. That the fag company is managed in an exemplary way is the picture I get, not only from dry figures and annual reports from the agency but also by reading the JO notifications and the Parliamentary Ombudsman's annual report. I also see how you work with what you are not very good at and get criticism for, because there is of course a lot in the prison service where you do not reach the end of the mission. The knowledge that we politicians have gained when we have visited prisons, prisons and outpatient activities also verifies the image of the operation being well functioning. Drug use, which is often mentioned, is low, 1 – 2 percent in screening tests, and escapes are very rare, although we had some incidents in the autumn. Let me make two points. One is that I am very grateful for the fact that the prison service is based on a scientific basis. It is a most refreshing approach at this time of scientific denunciation and mistrust of the facts. Not least in the programme activities and treatment methods, after evaluations and validations, the methods that do not work are continuously cleaned out. This is something that other policies should pursue a little more, especially in view of some liberal school politicians and party leaders. The recidivism rate is dropping. This may be due to the methodical and scientifically based work. This can, of course, also be the result of the fact that the other law enforcement authorities have not been effective enough in recent decades. However, I would like to believe that at least part of the fact that the relapse rate has decreased by more than 10 percentage points is the result of successful systematic structured work in the area of penitentiary care. The second point I would like to make is that the prison system is based on the basic values that are basically embraced by all of us. It is about humanistic, democratic values of the staff. If we are to be completely honest, there were in the past – or in the good old days, as some parties might say – some things to do about the values of the staff. The fact that the prisoners have problems with the values is quite obvious, because that is one of the reasons why they are sitting there. But the staff, who work closely with these individuals, must stand on a solid foundation. I usually say that on my study visits to the prison services I meet more humanists than in politics. The staff is extremely animated by their work in the tough environment in which they operate as professionals. That's why I feel safe. In many political corridors, core work is almost a scolding word today, but it is a necessary tool for penitentiary staff to be able to do a good job. Correctional services stand out in many different ways, not least in international comparisons. One of the most important things is that you work so close to your clients, close to the individuals. Not only do the prisoners themselves stand for the formation of standards and structures, but they are close. Another thing is the dynamic security work. Both of these are success factors that many visitors from all corners of the world look at and try to take the best of. This, of course, costs. Compared to many other countries, we have an expensive prison service per inmate. But for society it is a particularly good deal. Correctional services are very world-oriented, which is a strange paradox given the fact that walls are being built against the outside world because the individuals inside involuntarily have not been able to cope with the surrounding world and the norms and values that are out there. The very idea of an institution is to shut out the outside world. Yet the world out there comes inside the walls and the Gunnebo fences. When the problems of extremism on the right-wing political side or religious Islamism increase, it is evident inside the walls, and then the prison services must face this with increased awareness and concrete action plans. The crime rate in society is decreasing overall. Violent crime has been declining for a long time, not least because we drink less alcohol. When we drink less, we do fewer stupid things, and that alcohol consumption has almost halved among young people, who are the most active in crime in society, of course also affects the prison services, both in terms of flows and how to work with this. Particularly in our particularly vulnerable areas, the organised criminal gangs are putting their head on how we deal with all the tools of the rule of law. This also requires completely different conditions for planning prisoners. For a long time, people have worked hard to separate gang members from each other. It was perhaps easier at the time when you were wearing vests or when the gang structures were fixed. Today it is not; today it is fleeting, and friendships are broken and changed. The Metoo discussion also comes into the prison system and among the prison staff. It's obvious. There are a lot of challenges that you face. Staff turnover is perhaps the largest. It is likely that the operation will have to be split up because the judicial system may be more effective when the police are fully organised. It may be possible to open up new institutions, or rather expand existing ones. We have given assignments from the Riksdag to the Prison Service regarding transport to relieve the police. We also need to review interfaces and ensure that capacity is expanded. We must be able to continue working with the business to break the isolation. There's still a lot to do, not least in our detention centres. Finally, I want to raise my eyes a little. Sweden is doing very well – remarkably well, you might say. We are one of the world's most well-managed countries and have been so throughout the post-war period – even during the bourgeois years, I might add. This is, of course, something that sticks in the eyes of the worst dystopians, who, moreover, are often populists. They are the ones who feast on stigmatising already vulnerable groups and who bring out the old usual trick of looking for scapegoats – the easiest trick in the political toolbox. They do not hesitate to exploit politically tragic events and events in society. Sometimes, as an old man, I feel that I wish for a somewhat more quiet craft and a structured long-term approach to the political debate. As far as the prison services are concerned, I think I'd like to say that's the case. We have not had much discussion and not much trouble in committee about it, and that is very nice. This has been the policy of the long waves. We also agree fundamentally on what we have said so many times, namely that the best behaviour not to get new clients in the prison system is to keep society together, to make sure to work crime prevention, to care for the activities that build people and that create strong societies and to prioritise welfare before tax cuts. Actually, it's that simple, and I think we can agree on that.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-29	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating a motion report on criminal matters. In order not to forget this, I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservations 1 and 15. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of these two reservations. Correctional services face many new difficulties. The correctional services themselves say that the greatest difficulty is how to overcome the young gang criminals who are in prison. They are very difficult to reach, and it is very difficult to get them to accept treatments. These gang criminals often start committing crimes at an early age — many before they reach the age of 15. Many people commit very serious violent crimes. I can mention that in 2017, there were 320 gang shootings, 42 were murdered and 140 injured. Even innocent people have actually been murdered. Here society must react decisively and much sooner than it is today. A few weeks ago, we debated a motion report on young offenders. Unfortunately, the current government has been very slow in presenting measures. In that debate, I raised the need for new sanctions for young people aged 15 to 17. Many in the judiciary, both police officers and prosecutors, say that we need to take new measures with regard to this age group in order to break their criminal path as early as possible. A good proposal is youth monitoring with a anklet. In spite of an announcement three years ago, the government has not put forward any proposals in this regard. During the three years that have passed, many young people have been caught up in crime and have also ended up in prison. Correctional services should be efficient with good quality and high safety. The time spent in an institution should be used wisely. A couple of years ago, the Swedish National Audit Office presented a report on relapses in crime. It showed that within a year 70 percent of those in prison return to crime. That's an incredibly high figure. More than half of young prisoners commit new crimes within three years of their release from prison. It is really bad, and this needs to be improved. I think there are even more, because it is not someone who thinks that everyone gets caught when they commit crimes – not least in view of the police crisis that we have had. We Moderates have many good proposals in this regard, for example on social support groups for 18 to 29-year-olds and on clearer interaction between authorities. We also have a joint alliance motion with good proposals for example when it comes to tightening up parole and that you should work better with defectors. We're getting through three announcements today, and that's good. One of these announcements concerns the release of this very difficult group of young gang criminals. Frikård is therefore prison care outside the prison and provides both control and support for those who have received parole. Freedom needs to be developed, especially for this particular group of gang criminals. We believe that it is important to introduce greater possibilities for different regulations, such as that they are going to undergo treatment programmes, training and so on. Control also needs to be strengthened, because it is necessary to check that they go on the treatments that have been decided upon. There is a need to increase the safety of the care offices. As it is now, gang criminals can enter the care offices without being able to check whether they carry dangerous weapons and so on. That's a problem. In fact, if they encounter some people from some other gang in the care facilities, it can have very serious consequences. Madam President, I would like Reservation 1 is about outreach in custody. This activity is very important, as the detention period is a very good time to get the inmate to start thinking about his life and his future. Prisoners' staff have outreach activities, and the intention is to motivate those in custody to try to continue their life on the legal side. Priority is given to young detainees, and it is important that everyone receives these visits. It is tiring to be detained, and I have heard many people say that detention time has been a turning point for them. In fact, being in custody can be a good thing from this point of view, not just to get time to investigate the crimes. A few years ago I attended a seminar in Almedalen. It was Kris, Crimeanella's revenge in the community, who arranged it. There was a young man who said that it was only when he was in custody for a long time that he seriously began to think about what he would do with his future. It was his turning point. Then he made a decision, and he had kept it for years when he attended this seminar. According to the 2017 Annual Report of the Correctional Service, only 68 per cent were sought in custody. So it was 32% who were not visited, that is, one in three. There's too many of them. One in three, therefore, did not receive this support and call in order to break the criminal course. The Prison Service's annual report also says that there are huge differences between detention centres in how they work with outreach calls. This must be corrected and everyone must have the opportunity to receive this support. This is very important for the inmate or detained, but perhaps even more important for any future victims. Madam President, I would like Reservation 15 is about us Moderates wanting more people to serve their prison sentences in their own home countries instead of in Sweden. For example, we can imagine this when it comes to housing break-ins, which are increasing sharply in Sweden. Many foreign leagues come here to commit various crimes. The police say that half of all residential offences are committed by foreign theft gangs. The police also say that these theft leagues believe that Sweden is like a smorgasbord – it's just to come here and take what you want, because it's very small risk to get caught. And if you don't, the punishments are very low. Only about 4% of burglaries are convicted of the crime. We Moderates have presented an action programme against these theft leagues. Among other things, we want to introduce a new crime, burglary, with one year's imprisonment as a minimum penalty. One of the proposals in our action programme is included here, namely that more foreign citizens should be transferred to serve their sentence in their home country. This is good from many points of view, so I'm a little surprised that no other hooks on it. This means much better lockout for these people. If they serve the penalty in their own country, leave is easier because they may have a home and family nearby, and above all they know the language. Here it is difficult to lock out and leave. You may not know anyone here and do not know the language, and then it goes without saying that it will be difficult. Our proposal will thus make it easier for us to re-integrate. This is, in fact, also an economic issue. There are over 1 000 foreign citizens in Swedish prisons. One prison year costs 1.2 million per person. It's a lot of money that can be used for something else. In 2015, a European law came into force on the examination of whether a Swedish judgment should be enforced in another Member State. In its annual report, the Correctional Service notes that expectations for more transfers have not been fully met. There is also an international enforcement law that allows transfer to countries outside the Nordic region. There are quite few people who are transferred: in 2016 there were 67 and in 2017 there were only 51 people. So the number goes down, just as opposed to the purpose of the law. We Moderates want the government to take action so that more people serve their prison sentences in their home countries. We also want to reduce relapses. The investigation that the Alliance government set up to investigate what recidivism measures within the Prison Service work and who does not, this government closed down just six months before presenting its proposal. Now we are getting through a announcement that a new investigation with a corresponding mission will be set up.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-55	Madam President, I would like I thought, Ellen, that we should dwell a little on the central part of the Prison Service's activities, namely the relapse rate. In your speech, you mention that you do not really believe the figures I presented – you may have a different picture of reality. I would like clarification. How do you view the relapse rate in the Prison Service? It is perhaps the most objective statistical data you have to see whether the activity is successful or not.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-56	Madam President, I would like I know that the Correctional Service has presented figures showing that the relapse rate is going down a little bit, but one has not really been able to say what it is because of. Since the reorganisation in 2015, the police have investigated far fewer crimes – there are a lot of crimes they have not had the capacity to investigate – and the Prison Service has mentioned that it may be due to this. So you can't really say what it's because of. What I am referring to is the Swedish National Audit Office's report, which came two years ago. It concludes that 70% of those leaving prison relapse within a year. It may have gone down a little over the last two years; I can agree to that. But even if that were the case, the relapse rates are very high, and then you have to do everything you can.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-58	Madam President, I would like I'm a little surprised by Ellen's numbers. The fact remains: The proportion that relapses after three years and enters the detention centre as returning clients has decreased for 13 years. It is not really until the last three years that the figure has stabilised and has not fallen. The irony, then, is that the reorganisation of the police, with all its faults and shortcomings, has not really meant anything negative. On the other hand, the decline in relapse rates has stopped, and that is bad enough. But statistically, 10 percentage points fewer relapses in crime. This is in black and white in several annual reports from the Prison Service. It is important to stand up for that figure, because it is perhaps the result of the efficiency of the legal apparatus, as we have talked about before, but also shows that the operation is working reasonably well and that the validated methods produce results. We can see this not least when it comes to lock-out measures. Four of the most common locking measures have been investigated to see what has the greatest effect. Among other things, it has been seen that the release has been a very important measure. I think we need to agree that the trend is positive in the Prison Service and that it works well. We cannot just talk about a lack of efficiency in the judicial system, but the picture is complex. We will also reap the victories. The decline in the recurrence rate occurred primarily in bourgeois years, so do not black out unnecessarily, Ellen – especially when it comes to your own regime.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-62	Madam President, I would like I don't know if I'm doing numbers. I think it's Petter Löberg who's doing a lot of numbers. I refer to the Swedish National Audit Office's report two years ago, where it appears that 70% of those who leave prison relapse into crime after a year. These are very high figures. If it has improved a little over the last two years, no one is happier than I am, but I do not think there has been any major change. We really need to work on relapse prevention. It is therefore very strange that Petter Löberg's government closed the investigation that would investigate which methods work in the Prison Service and which ones do not. I think it was six months before the results were to be presented. Fortunately, we are now receiving an announcement that an investigation will be set up with the corresponding mission. We need to find out which methods are working. Not only can there be a little scattered showers, but there needs to be a collective picture: What works and what doesn't work? Take, for example, the outreach activity, which I mentioned in my speech. One in three does not receive that support. It is one of the best opportunities for a turning point for these criminals. They sit screened off and have time to think about how they want it for the rest of their lives. They are not influenced by peer pressure, peer pressure, and such things. One in three does not get that help, and that is a failure.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-66	Madam President, I would like This debate is about the prison system, which itself has a rather ungrateful task. It is an activity that must take care of the failures of our society. Correctional services do this very well. I would like to mention what Petter Löberg was talking about just now when he spoke about, among other things, treatment programmes. I would like to point out precisely that they are based on a scientific basis and that they have actually had quite a good development. Getting 10 percent of convicted criminals off the course of the crime is amazing. Surely it must be one of the most profitable efforts that we can make in society? All credited to the Alliance government, which worked on this issue for eight years. This is not something that only arose for the last four years, but it is a long process. I did not quite understand why Ellen Juntti did not want to agree that we also give the previous government some recognition in relation to this work. But, of course, it needs to get better. It must be much better, and it must be developed. It is also this – that the treatment programmes are increasing – that we have been working on during this parliamentary term. Of course, it is not good if 70 percent of offenders relapse. It is hopeless, and it must be much better. But we also need to see developments. If we do not see development – and also a positive one – it will be completely hopeless for the prison service to continue working. Then it's more about locking people up and throwing away the key, and that's not the world we want to live in. I received a reminder of this this morning when I turned on the radio and listened to the morning program. There they mentioned that today a book is being released on the work against Södertälje Network, where much is about the importance of leading people from organised crime getting off the street. But it is also about ensuring that they do not relapse into crime and that society with both whip and carrot forces another development of their lives. This isn't a life worth living-- it has to be clear. Criminal life must be broken. Instead, we in society are going to help, both with defectors' activities and with treatment programs. In every way we will ensure that these people return to society or find their way back into it. That is what this is all about. I think it is very positive that in this area we have a relatively large consensus in committee. I would like to take this opportunity to support the proposal in the report. The Green Party, of course, supports reservation 8, but for time to come, I am abstaining from calling for its approval. When we see a trend towards a decrease in relapse rates and that society can actually do something, it is our task to also convey this to Swedish society and to break the night-black image of a society that only goes towards chaos, where crime takes over more and more. It is very important that we as elected representatives take our responsibility and have a realistic picture of this society. It's possible to change the world. It is possible to change Sweden. It's not hopeless about people who commit crimes. They could be fewer. Correctional services are doing an amazing job, but they can do an even better job. Politically, we shall ensure that conditions are put in place for this. We also work to shorten detention periods, especially for children. This is a very important issue. We are going to take advantage of the break in life that prison time represents to ensure that things change and that these people do not return to the prison system but have a better life.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-78	Madam President, I would like Mats Pertoft said he doesn't really understand why I can't pay tribute to the Alliance government. That's probably where he got most of it wrong. I do, because I think we did a lot of good things. However, I am not quite as happy with the current government. We added, for example, the investigation that would investigate what methods work within the prison system in terms of relapse prevention. You closed this investigation for six months, I think, before it was to be presented. Now there are a lot of different measures here and there. It would have been much better to have a comprehensive investigation of what works and what doesn't work. But we're getting through an announcement here. In my speech, I referred to the outreach activities in detention centres. It has been stated that this is a very favorable time, because these criminals realise that they do not want to continue with crime. One-third is not going to jail. I think this is far too much. In their annual report, the Correctional Service writes that there are huge differences between different detention centres. There is no reasonable explanation for this. The Green Party is in government. Are you satisfied that 1 in 3 will not receive the support in custody that would be beneficial not only for the inmates but also for the possible future victims of crime? Are you satisfied that one third does not receive this support? Are you satisfied that there are so many differences between detention centres?
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-82	Madam President, I would like I can reply straight to Ellen Juntti: of course we are not satisfied with this. We see very great opportunities for development in the work of the prison services at all, including in relation to outreach activities. There are things that need to be developed further, and that is, of course, what we are constantly working on under the S-MP government. It is not that we settle down and think that everything is done. Just as it is positive that the number of relapses is decreasing, it is a challenge to get even better. Of course, it includes outreach as a part of many others. I'm absolutely not happy. It is important to continue the work.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-85	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mats Pertoft, for your answer. I was thinking about another thing that Pertoft said in his speech and which Petter Löberg was also a little bit on. It was well directed against us Moderates and against the Alliance. It was about that we should stop blacking out the situation in Sweden. Many are doing well, but some crime is terribly serious. I am thinking in particular of the sexual crimes, which have increased sharply. In two years, they've increased 22%, I think. These are not just figures. It's about young girls being raped and exposed to other sexual crimes. It's incredibly serious. This is not a black painting, but it has really gone the wrong way. I would like to mention the new law of 2015, the purpose of which was to transfer more people to serve their prison sentence in their home country. Like I said, this is good. They may have a home and family nearby, and they know the language. It's good for them to adapt to society again. Here too it is a failure, because in 2017, only 51 people were transferred and the year before 67. Thus, the number decreased, just as opposed to the purpose of this law.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-91	Madam President, I would like The increase in sexual crime is very worrying. This is why the Government has instructed Brå to investigate and return to this. Yesterday, the Government tabled a new assent legislation proposing, among other things, an increase in the minimum penalty for these crimes. I think there is quite a broad consensus in committee on this legislation. We are prepared to do a great deal to make this better. If I say we should stop blacking out, that certainly does not mean that we should turn a blind eye to crime or in any way beautify. On the other hand, we should dare to see that this can go towards a more positive development. Ellen Juntti asked about a return to other countries. Yes, the government is working on it all the time. Last week, Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson explained that he had hopefully agreed with Georgia that they should open up to receive their convicted citizens in Sweden, that they should be able to be reinstated. It is very important, but it is very difficult with countries that refuse to accept their own citizens. It seems absurd to us Swedes that a country refuses to accept its own citizens, but we have that problem. The government is constantly working on this to make it right.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-95	Madam President, I would like When we debated the report of the parliamentary year, I would like to recall that I highlighted the socio-economic benefits of forcing a criminal to break his criminal path. I also think that I mentioned how it really is not very smart to become a criminal, in so far as such a choice is made. It's not a good life. It may appear that way when we have a reality where some people grow up in contexts where the only one who has a nice car or an expensive watch is a criminal. Perhaps as a young person you only see that side of the story and do not know someone who has become rich in their own business or work. Then it is surely easy to believe that the only way to realize one's own dreams is to extend beyond the limits of the law. Perhaps one grows up with the feeling that the system is rigged for someone other than me, that what it talks about in the news – the majority society, self-declarations and studies – is for the others, the real people, but not for me and for us who grew up here and have this background. When I meet young people who express such disillusionment between the lines, I just get so sad. How can that be? After all the decades of alleged aspirations for equality, there are still these abyssed gaps between those who have good hope for their own future and those who dare not hope for anything. At the intersection of these we find those who still succeed, who find their place in existence and gain good lives. Some come into contact with their inner supertalents and develop business success. Others play football so well that they become national heroes and pure icons. Some of them are looking for their future as criminals. Maybe you just slip in there. Maybe you go there thinking there'll be a ticket to wealth and happiness. But the fact is that criminals are more at risk of being themselves victims of crime and disease. They even have a greater risk of accidents. One may be led to believe that with money and expensive habits, respect comes from the environment, admiration and respect. It's not like that. The fact is that it is already difficult to use such substantial funds in a way that poses acceptable risks that it is worth the effort. And it will be even more difficult, at least if the Center Party and the Alliance prevail. Life as a criminal means having to constantly look over your shoulder, to hang out with and have dealings with genuinely unreliable people. You cannot seek help from the police in the same way as others when someone threatens you. And if you don't have very good ways to launder the money you stole, you won't be able to acquire anything of lasting value. At any time, the expensive bell, which you think people are impressed by, can be forfeited by the police in cooperation with the K. Ronofogdet. How impressive is that? Here the research is quite clear: If you live a criminal life, you will end up in the prison service sooner or later. And I guess luck is. It's a good thing for society, but above all, it's a good thing for those you've committed crimes and maybe even more for those you'd have committed crimes if you hadn't gone there. In fact, it's also lucky for yourself. With modern methods and forms of work, the inmate has every opportunity to break a negative and destructive life pattern. A person who has developed addiction can be helped to get out of them, and there are ways to deal with aggression that does not involve suffering for others. But there are far too few people taking that chance. There are far too many people sitting on their punishments and then returning to a criminal life. My colleagues in the committee have discussed earlier here what this development looks like, whether it gets better or not. But no matter which one, there are far too few who are good recidivism prevention. This is where we're gonna have to push. Our former government, the Alliance government, has given impetus to the prevention of relapses. But for some reason the current government did not think it was important enough, so the investigation into developing relapse prevention efforts was discontinued. The purpose of the investigation was precisely to look at the international examples of scientific methods that we can establish work. Why don't you want to do it? Now we announce to the government that the investigation will be completed, which is good and important. I'm behind all the Center Party and Alliance reservations. However, for time to come, I only call for reservation 1 from the Alliance, which was also highlighted by my colleague Ellen Juntti, on outreach – something that I think is very important.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-107	Madam President, I would like It is easy to get involved in today's social debate about tougher action against crime, that insecurity is only increasing, the crimes of violence as well, and that there is a rapist in every bush. And of course, as a woman, you have every reason to be afraid of men and of men's abuse. Of course, it is terrible when the public service disappears from the suburbs and there is nothing left but an empty square with camera surveillance. Of course, it is unpleasant when the media only write about crime and ads tip off the best home alarm. But let me be clear: the Left Party does not want any more punishment, because it does not work. Longer sentences neither reduce crime nor deter people from committing crime, and there is nothing to show that a person becomes less criminal if they sit in prison for a long time; rather, they become more criminal. This is not something that I have invented, but it is national and international research that shows that it is just like this. Therefore, the Left Party proposes that no one should be in prison with a sentence of less than a year. If, on the other hand, a person is sentenced to a sentence of more than one year, the person must be in an institution, as it is the most effective method of preventing the person from committing a crime. That is why we propose that people should receive their treatment within the framework of care, and that it should be combined with intensive monitoring with electronic anklet. Neither have I nor the Left Party made this up from the empty air, but it is the Prison Service's view that there is no time to start treatment programmes when prison time is less than a year. Correctional services no longer demand punishment, but believe that the agency can do more and better work within the framework of parole with treatment programmes and control in freedom. This does not mean that there are not many challenges in the prison system. Too few people go into treatment, too many relapse into crime again. The lockout to society works too badly. Another problem is that the prison service clients are mostly men. Last year, 94% of prisoners in prison were men and 6% were women. This, of course, affects the state of the Prison Service's operations and the way in which the interventions are designed. Madam President, I would like Nearly 70% of all prison sentences imposed are less than six months. Last year, more than one in three people sentenced to prison in Sweden received a sentence of two months or less. In order for the Prison Service to be able to fill the enforcement process with constructive efforts such as treatment, support, influence and control, it requires not only resources and skills, but also time. A few weeks' imprisonment does neither from nor to a person's will nor ability to leave a criminal life. It also provides little incentive for the sentenced person to take active responsibility for their criminality and implement the enforcement plan drawn up by the Prison Service. Madam President, I would like Why doesn't the Left Party want more people in prison? Because there is very good scientific evidence that efforts in freedom make a greater difference and that the Swedish care system counts as one of the most developed in the world. It is simply more challenging and more difficult to refrain from criminal behaviour out there in freedom than in prison. Will the person get away with doing criminal acts? No, we don't think so. Foot buoy and close contact with care, home visits and control will curb that behavior. Will it have a greater effect on relapses in crime after intensive surveillance over a long period of time in the outpatient care? Yes, it probably will be. Punishments that are carried out in prison can be made longer, more intervention and designed more content-rich and personalised. In an institution, opportunities are limited to own resources. On the other hand, in society, the client must manage his or her own life and deal with the risk situations that have led to crime in the past. The right choice of sanctions is an important prerequisite for the best possible success of the work of the penitentiary and for the most efficient use of their resources. People who have committed crimes are part of society. They will return to society after execution. On this basis, it is very difficult to understand the point of the widespread use of short prison sentences. The Left Party therefore believes that the number of short prison sentences should be reduced and that the use of intensive monitoring with electronic control should be extended. I'm in favour of reservation 16.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-120	Madam President, I would like First of all, the Liberals are in favour of reservation 18, which deals with treatment programmes within the Prison Service. It is very interesting to hear the analysis of this issue by the government parties and the Left Party. One can have an approach to discussing those who are inmates and whether it is better that they are in prison or not. Then there is another approach that I would like to explain. Every day we get to see how the judiciary and the police feel frustrated that they are not acting forcefully enough against people who commit serious crimes, not least young people. Although juvenile delinquency and the penalty rebate are a parallel issue, it affects the whole issue of penalties, penalties and who end up in prison, whether in the case of parole or in the case of prison. My overall assessment is not that we are too restrictive or too tough on those who commit ruthless and serious crimes. In particular, it concerns the increasingly younger category of young criminals, young men in many of the vulnerable areas, who are responsible for such serious crimes. In this report, which deals with certain criminal matters, the Liberals have chosen in particular to raise the issue of defection and its importance. I note, Madam President, that among the three announcements we make are prevention of recidivism, better-suited care and evaluation of relapse prevention. Those are soft questions. These are positive questions in the sense that they are not about increased penalties or tougher hands. But I have listened to the other parties from the government. They have been against this; it's just that they've changed their strategy. The report no longer presents its reservations. However, a comparison with last year and the previous year shows that similar proposals have suggested that the government parties oppose and reject these proposals. I do not believe that the government has fundamentally changed policy. On the other hand, tactics have changed during Parliament's treatment. However, I welcome the fact that the majority of parliamentary parties are behind the calls for the government, not least in terms of measures to tackle young criminals. There are also studies that show that drop-outs are important. Evaluations have repeatedly shown that society's resources are insufficient, that defectors are vulnerable, not least outside government-run operations, and that there are shortcomings in the interaction between authorities. There are also studies that unfortunately show that it is inefficient, not because it is in itself poor activity, but the shortcomings, vulnerability, the economy and the organisation risk becoming ineffective. I've also looked at the police regions. Not everyone carries out an active drop-out activity for criminals or for those who have served their sentence and are on their way out. In the middle of the region, in my constituency of Västmanland, it is announced that a drop-off activity will be started in the spring, which is a positive thing. Looking at the municipalities' own drop-outs, we have previously reported in the Chamber how the municipality by municipality shuts down these important efforts for economic or other reasons, although most of it shows that the municipalities, civil society and the police must do more to remove the criminals, and not least the young people, from these environments. An important part that the Liberals repeatedly highlight in our Prison Service movements is the lock-out to work and how to improve it, not only when it comes to Arbetsförmedlingen but generally, through different types of entry jobs, by reviewing the issue of the register of charges etcetera. We have made several suggestions on how to increase the chances of former convicted people returning to work. But it's a very tough challenge. Unfortunately, in many examples that I have heard of, previously convicted people have no chance in the labour market. They easily fall back into unemployment. They seek out old criminal comrades and socialize in those environments. Then they commit crimes again, and eventually they end up again within the framework of the penal and judicial system. Madam President, I would like The second issue that we have repeatedly raised is the importance of actively participating and taking on board the treatment programmes offered to inmates who have committed serious violent and sexual crimes. We have had claims that have led to announcements from the Riksdag, including 2016, which have been about not being able to receive leave or parole if you do not actively participate in or if you refuse to participate in treatment programmes during the period within the prison system. The government parties have previously said no to our proposal. They have justified this by referring to the investigation that has looked at the issue of the risk of recurrence of crime. This investigation is complete. The report came in the summer of 2017, and the consultation period is also over. I have noted that the Government has not returned any proposal to the Riksdag on how the risk of relapse should affect the parole. I also note that the investigator's recommendation to the government was that the risk of recurrence in the event of serious crime should not constitute grounds for parole. I would therefore like to ask the Social Democrats whether they have released that part of the issue, which they have once again justified when we have proposed stricter requirements for treatment programmes and tightened conditions for leave and parole. You're writing again that you don't want to pre-empt this investigation. However, the investigation has been presented. It's been referred. The Government Office has collected comments, but we have not yet heard anything. It would be very interesting to know how the government thinks about this important issue.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-135	Madam President, I would like My comrades have already presented in the debate the announcements for which the committee has received a majority and which are based on the Alliance's proposal. Of course, I support them and I think they are keen. It is about better adapted care measures for young gang criminals. It is also a question of addressing the investigation into flexible and efficient penitentiary services that the government closed down as one of the first things that it did. Finally, it is a case that consignments to a prisoner – in addition to consignments to and from their own lawyer and other government posts – should be subject to greater scrutiny by prison officers. We think these are urgent announcements. Another important issue, which is contained in the Alliance's joint reservation No 5, concerns the drop-out activity. We agree that a comprehensive review of all drop-out activities is required, with a thorough review of the methods and results that can be developed into comprehensive national guidelines for drop-out activities. Further progress is needed in this very important work. I would also like to endorse Amendment No 9. It is a Christian-Democracy reservation dealing with social outcome contracts. I think that NGOs should have a natural place in the reintegration of the sentenced, both before and after their release. Civil society already has a major role to play in supporting formerly convicted people in their reintegration. Christian Democrats believe that associations should be encouraged to be included as part of life before and after release. For several years now, defectors, where criminals can turn when they want to leave their criminal life, have been driven by Exit Fryshuset, Crimeanella's revenge in society and X-Cons. We in the Christian Democrats do not think that it can be assumed that civil society efforts will continue unless we give them a clear signal that this is very urgent. We want to give them long-term prospects. We also think that we should take a step further and introduce something that exists in some other countries, namely social output contracts, social impact farmers. There are examples of how you can get compensation in relation to how well you manage to adapt people back to life after they have come out of prison. This exists in the UK and the US and means that civil society receives financial compensation from the state based on how well it manages to re-integrate former criminals. The public sector must, of course, formulate clear objectives in the area of success. Thereafter, companies and organisations may offer to carry out projects and achieve these objectives. As public money is only paid out once the targets have been achieved, the economic risk to taxpayers is insignificant, in our view. But if the targets are achieved, the profits are potentially huge, because the costs associated with crime and exclusion are enormous. The challenges and poor development of social output contracts are due, on the one hand, to the lack of knowledge among public actors about how to use social investment funds and, on the other hand, to the fact that the relationship between risk and return for external financiers is often modest for social investments such as these. To increase the number of social output contracts in Sweden, efforts are needed to solve both the lack of knowledge and the lack of willingness to invest. Many times it is about investment in what is called alienation areas. I therefore believe that a national strategy is needed to meet the needs and facilitate the development of social output contracts. A national fund should also be set up to make these investments more attractive. We have this as proposals in our budget, and we have set aside funds for it. There is a ready-made model that could be introduced, which is why we are calling for reservation 9 to be approved. Another Christian-Democracy reservation that deserves to be mentioned concerns the possibility of postponing conditional release. This can be found in reservation 22, but for time winning we only claim consent to reservation 9. In short, reservation 22 is about the fact that if, for example, you refuse to give urine samples or otherwise do not participate in your treatment, the complaint system should be able to be used, which should lead to delayed conditional release. This is a clear signal that we think it is very important that all institutions are drug-free. It should therefore be possible to use conditional release as a tool to achieve this. For this reason, we have tabled a reservation on this, but, as I have said, I call for the winning approval of time only for reservation 9, Madam President.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-147	Madam President, I would like Allow me to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 14 and of the committee's proposal in general. An effective chain of law requires not only additional resources for the police, prosecutors and courts, but also for the prison services. More places in institutions must be created, and it costs money, of course. In Sweden Democrats' Sweden, initially more individuals will become acquainted with the prison system and also serve longer prison sentences than today. That is a promise we make to the voters: Mr Riminella will be in prison. They shouldn't run around in the open, as obviously the Left Party wants. Our view is that the prison system today is of good quality, and we want it to continue to do so. The Swedish Democrats are therefore by far the party that invests most in the prison services. In our 2018 draft budget, we allocated half a billion SEK more than the government. This compares with the alliance parties. Three of them don't put a single crown more than the government. The fourth, the Liberals, even cut the Prison Service's budget by 30 million, which is a bigger cut than they proposed as late as a year ago. Of course, for those who are serious about punitive measures, it is not a realistic approach to cut back or not to strengthen the Prison Service's budget. Several of our activities in this area are dealt with in a simplified way. For those who follow the debate on television, this means that we have debated the issues before, and therefore there is no in-depth examination of these motions in the report we are discussing today. In these motions, for example, we have proposed stricter rules on leave, anklets on release after serious crimes to prevent the recurrence of crime and the criminalisation of prison escape. Yes, you heard me right. This is not illegal today. We have also made demands for increased camera surveillance in the institutions, and we believe that camera surveillance should also be possible in the cells of Class 1 and 2 institutions if necessary. Furthermore, we have proposed a lower prison standard for those who are to be expelled or who have been sentenced to life imprisonment. Tax money should not be wasted in these cases. Although these proposals are not dealt with in greater depth, we maintain our firm view. As usual, when the reports of the Committee on Justice are being discussed, the government parties have had a number of dossiers sealed. In this report, the committee has no less than three announcements. In these cases, the Swedish democrats have used their wavemaster role to support proposals which are nevertheless in line with our policy and thus influenced the outcome in committee. This has in some cases led the government parties to withdraw their announced reservations. The first announcement means that the committee wants the government to create better adapted care measures for young gang criminals. It is important, not least to prevent relapses and young people getting caught up in gang crime, which usually leads to more serious crimes. The second announcement is about setting up a new investigation that will study successful international examples of relapse prevention and map and analyse the Prison Service's relapse prevention work. This is in accordance with an investigation set up by the alliance government in 2014 but closed by the current government in early 2015. We believe that it is reasonable for such a survey to take place. That is why we have supported the proposal. The third announcement is about increasing the control of consignments to inmates. Although there is zero tolerance of drugs in prisons, prisoners testify to the ease of access to different types of drugs. This is a major problem for penitentiary services, not least because drug abuse creates safety problems for employees and prisoners, but also because it makes effective rehabilitation difficult. It is therefore essential to step up efforts to remove drugs from prisons. The Swedish Democrats have proposed a series of measures to address this problem. For example, we want to ban unattended guest rooms in Class 1 and 2 institutions. As in TV series, visits should take place through a plexiglas pane without the possibility of physical contact. Another additional measure is that which the majority of the committee has now chosen to take, namely to increase the checks on consignments to prisoners. This is fully in line with our view of drug-free institutions, and we have therefore supported the proposal. We note that, on the other hand, the Left Party as the only party in the committee does not think that there is a reason to increase the controls on consignments, although everything indicates that drugs, among other things, come that way. It is not responsible, especially when there are no other proposals on how to fight drugs in prisons. In addition to ensuring that these announcements have been implemented, the Swedish Democrats have also pushed the question of enforcement being possible in another country even if the actual sentence period is extended. Today there is a risk that people cannot be transferred to another country for the continued execution of a prison sentence because the prison sentence there would risk being longer than it would be in Sweden. This can be seen, among other things, from the decision of the Svea Court of Appeal on 28 February 2017. We believe that this is completely unreasonable. A longer period of imprisonment due to conditional release in Sweden should not prevent a foreigner from being transferred to his or her home country to serve the sentence. But the other parties obviously do not see any problem with this. That is why we have reserved ourselves in committee. Madam President, I would like In Sweden, a prison sentence is supposed to be a punishment. It is basically a question of justice in relation to the victim. For too long there has been talk of care rather than punishment, and for too long criminal policy has been characterised by swinging doors. Anyone sentenced to a prison sentence should also feel a marked difference from the life of freedom that otherwise applies. Prison time shall be characterised by discipline and strict rules of conduct. The correctional services will make sure that the person who has served his sentence comes out as a better person. And it'll take as long as it takes. It is also our firm belief that two thirds of release must be abolished. It is not reasonable for a person sentenced to, let us say, ten years in prison to be in less than seven years. Where is the victim's idea in this? It is also strange that there is no other party in this House that considers it unreasonable that we have a system of mandatory early release. The Moderates certainly suggest that parole should take place after three quarters of the time. It is a marginal change in the current system. For a ten-year sentence, this means an extension of the sentence by just under eleven months, but the sentence is still two and a half years shorter than the sentence. If the Moderates were really serious about their rhetoric of punishment, they would have joined our opinion. It is really serious when the conditional release rules are applied in combination with the conversion of life sentences into fixed-term sentences. A good example of this is Mattias Flink, who, on June 10, 1994, executed seven people and shot another three. He was sentenced to life imprisonment, which was converted into 30 years by the Supreme Court. Since the parole rules were applied after two thirds of the sentence period, he was released in the summer of 2014, 20 years after the mass murders. With three-fourths release, he had been free after 221⁄2 years. The Moderates find that acceptable. The rest of you think 20 years is acceptable. With the policy of the Swedish Democrats, he would never have come out, because we want real life sentences, but that is an issue that we are debating in another context, Madam President.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-161	Madam President, I would like In all welfare areas, it is important that we do what we can to ensure that our common tax money is spent on what is intended. It may be school, care for the elderly or any of the other areas where tax revenue is used. In today's case, it's about dental care. Moreover, dental care is one of the areas of well-being where much still needs to be improved. Many, though they would need it, refrain from going to the dentist because they simply cannot afford it. It therefore feels good that during this parliamentary term we have managed to create a financial space that has enabled us to raise the limit for free dental care up to 23 years and double the general dental support for everyone else. But more is needed to make dental care equal and accessible. For this reason, it is gratifying that the government recently set up an investigation to come up with suggestions on how we can ensure that everyone really gets the money to go to the dentist. Madam President, I would like The letter from the government that we are now examining is based on a report from the Swedish National Audit Office that has reviewed the possible over-use of the state dental care support due to over-treatments. The report argues that there is much evidence of such over-exploitation and that the government should consider tightening sanctions against care providers who use the aid incorrectly. Criticism of the methods used in the review has been expressed by private dentists and the Dental and Drug Benefits Agency, among others. The Government shares the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency should be given enhanced control and sanction possibilities. Due to what the report shows, the government is also currently investigating the conditions for giving Försäkringskassan increased opportunities to unsubscribe care providers who are misbehaving. A united committee is in favour of the government's actions. However, the four bourgeois parties with the support of the Swedish Democrats believe that there is a need to urge the government to treat all healthcare providers equally and want to present it in a so-called announcement. We Social Democrats, together with the Green Party and the Left Party, believe that there is no need for such a touch stick. Time and again, pushing through announcements without any real substance waters down an important instrument for the Riksdag to be able to influence the policies of different governments. I'm in favour of the reservation.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-168	Madam President, I would like Listener and listener! The Red-Green feminist government works systematically and purposefully for a long-term sustainable welfare policy. We also do this in the field of dental care. Today we are debating a report on the report from the Swedish National Audit Office on the possible over-use of dental support. I can actually refer to Lennart Axelsson's speech, but I would still like to say a few things. In all contexts where tax-funded activities are carried out by private operators in some form, it is important that the policy is very attentive to the fact that such models always involve a more or less explicit interest in the scale of the activity. The risk of over-exploitation of dental aid is an example of the fact that more extensive measures than necessary or more expensive measures than necessary may be a means for the holder to increase his turnover and hence the collection of tax revenue and the possibility of a larger surplus. Of course, there is a risk of over-use even when the operations are carried out in the public domain. But the driving force for such over-treatment is different from profit. Uncertainty from the performer can lead to over-treatment. But even the willingness to meet the patient in the choice of method and treatment can lead to the same thing. Always wanting to do the best can lead to over-treatment as well as some form of competition between different processors on a unit in the same organization. There are many reasons for overtreatment. I believe that many people who have worked in public activities have experienced that the one who spends the most resources is the one who gets the increased funding. Of course, there is a need to review and monitor volume and cost development even when the execution takes place in its own direction. I also believe that the methods of monitoring are better developed for situations where there is a clear organisational interface, as in the case of private operators, than when it comes to reviewing self-directed activities. There is a need here for development from us politicians. In the report, the majority of the committee, the political opposition in Parliament, is making a statement to the government that the government: The wording is very bureaucratic and, I believe, very difficult for many to interpret. This means, in any case, that the opposition is demanding that the government ensure that the work on creating rules, which is thus ongoing, on how to stop the right to payments from the dental system for those performers who are not doing well is designed so that the conditions are equal for everyone whether it is a matter of private or public performance. With a little plain Swedish, that's what it means. As you can see, it is not so terribly simple because the conditions from some perspectives are quite different. One example is that under the Freedom of the Press Regulation, the principle of publicity applies to public operators but not to private operators. Similarly, public activities must comply with information protection and research bans and such in the case of business secrets, which may well exist, in the methods used in a completely different way from those used by private operators. Madam President, I would like Work is already underway in the Government Office to develop new ways of shutting down those who do not behave from the compensation system. The Green Party, as we have heard the Social Democrats say, and we will certainly hear the Left Party say the same thing, believes that the announcement of the opposition can almost be seen as opening doors. Over-exploiting the funds that Parliament has, such as the opposition, for example, has chosen to make very often this term of office, and over-exploiting the tool of announcement only undermines the tool of announcement.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-180	Madam President, I would like We'll take care of the welfare. We are going to make sure that all tax money for welfare goes just to welfare. In the bourgeoisie – to which the Swedish Democrats now belong – there is always an overbelief in market solutions of all kinds. The worst example, of course, is Stockholm County Council. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed over-use as a result of over-treatment within the state dental support and given some tips along the way. The purpose of the review has been to study whether there is an over-utilisation in the state dental support due to the fact that caregivers, dentists, provide a more extensive and more expensive treatment than the dental support allows. Overtreatment is not the same as cheating or fraud, so we leave it. To study it, they looked at a field experiment conducted in 2015 in collaboration with researchers at the Department of Economics at Uppsala University and Försäkringskassan. It was a very rigorous job. There were 735 dental clinics included. A very large number of selected receptions, 369, received a letter informing them that their treatments for a particular measure would be checked ex post. This meant that the care providers had already checked in advance that it would be examined if it complied with the rules of the dental care allowance. In its excellent report, the Swedish National Audit Office believes that prior information leads to a change in the treatment pattern. There was a reduction in the controlled measure and it was clear that there was an over-treatment. The Swedish National Audit Office's review shows that over-use in the form of over-treatment, that you simply do too much things that cost too much with patients, occurs mainly among the 10 per cent made up of the largest private dental clinics. It's a pretty clear picture. Among them, the use of the controlled measure decreased by around 30 %. At the same time, the group that received the letter increased the use of a less extensive and less profitable alternative to the controlled measure for the care providers. Do you think it's a coincidence? I don't think so. Perhaps you on the right have another report on the overuse that concerns county-run dentistry. I don't know. In view of the findings of the review, the Swedish National Audit Office recommends the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to improve the work to control the carers' right to reimbursement from the dental care allowance. Now the government has started a lot of activity for this. For example, to enable Försäkringskassan to prevent healthcare providers who are deemed to be rogue from accessing the electronic system that handles payments from the dental care allowance. There is also a need for price comparisons. If you as a dental patient go to a dentist, you also want to know what things cost, don't you? Then you can compare the price levels between caregivers. I note that the government has decided to commission the Dental and Pharmaceutical Benefits Agency to establish the price comparison service for dental care. That's great. Otherwise, it may be a mystery to see what to pay. That's very good. I think you're overreacting to the right. You often do this when there are reports that highlight the disadvantages of a market. Then you jump high. You don't really believe those reports. You also want equivalent conditions and supervision and follow-up to apply to all actors working in dental care regardless of their type of operation. There was none of that in the report, which I think was quite modest. A little more systematic and control can't hurt when it comes to tax money. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-191	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the SoU7 report. In the report, the committee examines the Government's letter The Swedish Audit Office's report on the over-use of dental support as a result of over-treatment. The 2008 Allian Government's dental reform and the introduction of the special dental allowance and support for long-term illness or disability from 2013 resulted in a significant strengthening of the state's dental support. Already in the first year nearly SEK 6 billion was allocated to the dental reform. We want to safeguard this reform. It is today Försäkringskassan that pays compensation to dental practitioners and manages the administration of the state dental support. This management is mainly automated via an electronic system, where dental practitioners report through this electronic system and receive compensation. The system also allows automatic checks on the data reported. This electronic system means, among other things, that in the event that something does not match, the operator may not receive any compensation. There is therefore a control mechanism in the electronic system. So far, there's nothing weird about it. However, automatic checks cannot completely prevent incorrect application of the regulatory framework. There is therefore a need for manual control and sometimes subsequent follow-up. Madam President, I would like In the report we are discussing today, the Swedish National Audit Office has chosen the method of conducting a field experiment. This meant that 735 dental clinics were selected, both private clinics and public dental clinics. These clinics made up about 15 percent of the country's dental clinics. The selection was also made from the perspective of reflecting the distribution between private receptions and public dental clinics, i.e. eight public dental clinics against ten private practitioners. Nor is there any problem with the Swedish National Audit Office's structure of the audit. In addition, the Swedish National Audit Office points out that fraud and outright cheating are outside the scope of this review. It is a serious problem that the decisive method that the Swedish National Audit Office has chosen to use is based on assumptions about the dental measures 800 and 801. These measures are in this case dental crowns. In the case of action 800, a patient receives only one dental crown in a jaw. If, instead, the patient receives several dental crowns in the same jaw at the same time of treatment, only dental crown action 801 should be applied. In other words, these are two completely different methods and two different treatments. Thus, it is difficult – or in this case impossible – to equate these two measures. The Swedish National Audit Office, on the other hand, claims that the over-use of dental support can be demonstrated by the fact that, via prior information, half of the dental clinics in the field experiment have provided these clinics with information that their treatments for a particular measure would be followed up and checked afterwards. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that if this prior information leads to a change in treatment patterns in the form of a reduction in the measure under control, it is a strong sign that overtreatment occurs. However, since the selected treatments examined are not interchangeable, logic does not hold up. In addition, the criticism is directed at the fact that the Swedish National Audit Office in its review was based on a regulatory framework that was repealed already in 2008. It is good that the Government also notes the clear shortcomings in the Swedish National Audit Office's review report. At the same time, what is clear is that the government cannot fail to allow ideology to take precedence over facts and analysis in the letter. Private dental care in Sweden has the highest satisfaction among patients of all activities evaluated by the Swedish Quality Index. In addition, the Social Insurance Agency, which administers this system and also carries out regular manual ex-post checks, has concluded that, in general, no clear signals or patterns can be established indicating that the state dental aid is being overused. In 2015, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency also carried out its own checks. In a number of cases, it was established that errors which led to recovery of compensation paid had occurred. In five of the cases, the errors were considered to be so serious that the dental clinics were reported to the police. Of SEK 5.3 billion in compensation paid in 2015, it is estimated that recovery will amount to SEK 13.6 million. Although the Swedish National Audit Office states that their review does not cover fraud and outright cheating, and despite the fact that the Government's own authority The Swedish Social Insurance Agency does not believe that it is possible to draw conclusions on general patterns of over-use of state dental support, the Government writes in its letter that there are indications that the state system is being abused. It is abused, on the one hand, by healthcare providers for financial gain and, on the other hand, by operators who in some cases are deemed to be linked to organised crime. It goes without saying that all fraud and fraud involving taxes should be prosecuted and criminals prosecuted. The allocation of common resources intended for use in welfare shall always be closely, systematically and regularly monitored. From there, however, the step is far to talking sweepingly about indications and about the misuse of dental support by certain private dental providers. The Alliance parties share the government's view that the Social Insurance Agency should be given enhanced control and sanctioning possibilities. It is a good thing that the conditions are now being examined to give Försäkringskassan increased opportunities. This also applies to the possibility to unsubscribe dental practitioners who are misbehaving from the replacement system. At the same time, however, it would be even better for the government to establish the clear principle that all welfare activities, regardless of direction, should be carried out on equal terms. In addition, there is supervision, control, follow-up and evaluation of all dental practitioners regardless of their type of operation. I am pleased that in today's report the Alliance has an announcement to the government on this very subject. Madam President, I would like With these words, I call for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for the reservation to be rejected.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-204	Madam President, I would like As most of it has already been said, I will only briefly comment on today's debate on the Swedish National Audit Office's report on over-use of dental support. The Swedish Democrats are behind the government's letter. The report has been questioned and criticised by, among others, the Dental and Pharmaceutical Benefits Agency and the Private Dental Physicians. The measures that the Swedish National Audit Office has investigated concern dental crowns, and the methods that have been compared are not interchangeable or comparable with each other. The audit carried out by the Swedish National Audit Office is based on an old regulatory framework that was repealed in 2008. With this, the whole basis of the report falls. Several of the consultation bodies also consider the estimated social cost of possible over-treatment to be significantly excessive. We believe that the review has been carried out very badly. Dental care today works in a very good way, with many functioning private actors. However, we agree that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency should be given enhanced control facilities, and in order for it to be effective, any errors must have consequences for the care provider. With regard to the use of state aid for dental care, it is important that all actors active in dental care, regardless of their type of operation, are controlled on equal terms.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-208	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the Social Affairs Committee's report 13 Social Services. This time again, I would like to start by saying that I find it extremely gratifying that so many people are raising social services as an important area. Social services have one of the most important tasks of society and are a fundamental part of our well-being, both as the ultimate safety net of society and as a central part of our welfare system. Madam President, I would like My political conviction is not only formed in the basement of the Youth League; it is also largely based on my own personal life experience. I always get a little warm in my heart when we here in the Chamber are debating social services and social issues. The reason for that is that I have my own personal experience. I know how important it is for the strong cohesive society to step in and be there fully when a nine-year-old girl is completely without a family and the other social functions and personal institutions fall apart. I know how important it is then that there is a strong common society that looks after and secures every single child and the child's opportunity for a good and safe upbringing. That, Madam President, is the basis for why we have a social service. When the nine-year-old girl stands there without parents, our welfare state steps in and says that she too should have the chance to make her dreams come true. And here I am, Madam President, proud and grateful for the strong welfare state that was there for me. Of course, my personal life experience gives me no preference for interpretation but a good understanding that all people can find themselves in a situation where they need the support and help of society. Today we are debating and discussing errors and shortcomings, things that need to be improved and laws that need to be changed and renewed. That is good, because we should always have the individual vulnerable child in our eyes, and we will always need to develop and improve the strong society organisation so that we can capture every single child when needed. When, after the 2014 elections, I entered the Riksdag and was given responsibility for, among other things, social services and children's issues in the Parliamentary Social Committee, I quickly realised that social services were badly neglected. I could stand here in the pulpit claiming that it was the eight years in power of the bourgeois government that were the reason for this, but the truth is that social services have been politically removed much longer than that. As a Member of Parliament, during my many visits to social services around the country, I have met a hard-pressed and neglected social service. It was often extremely pressured social security secretaries who received me and who testified about concerns that have been raised, about investigations that have not been made and about a stressed working environment. While pressure on social services had increased over a long number of years, the shortage of staff and the high turnover of staff were also a brake on the proper functioning of social services. Of course, this led to an increasing number of clients having to compete for the skills, treatment, time and money of social services. I have also met young newly graduated social secretaries who have received little or no introduction at all and who have had to deal with the toughest cases from day one. It was the new social secretary who came into the social service full of energy but who quickly realized that the social work, what they wanted to do, was out of time and that the energy had to be spent on all the documentation that had been left behind. To say the least, Madam President, I experienced a social service that needed more of us politicians. I am not going to stand here today and beat myself to the chest and claim that we have solved all the problems in social services during this term of office, when we have been in power. On the contrary, this is an area of constant challenges. But we've done a lot. Since day one, we have been working hard on issues relating to social services. For the first time ever, there has been a direct targeted strengthening of social care for children and young people in the form of a billion-dollar investment over four years to go precisely towards human resources enhancement, upgrading skills and quality. 10 extra welfare billions have been allocated to municipalities annually from 2017. It is money that should definitely benefit social services. Social secretarial assistants are now being hired, who may be the extremely important resource in social services that enables the social secretary to engage in social work. We have ensured that young newly graduated social secretaries can take part in an important web-based support for career introductions. We have increased the national standard for support for families with children, increased child benefit by SEK 200 per child, made more money available for summer holiday activities for children and ensured that women's shelters around the country received much-needed increased support. And, Madam President, we are finally turning the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law. The new law clarifies that courts and legal practitioners must take into account the rights deriving from the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Although Sweden has undertaken to comply with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, there are shortcomings in both legislation and practice. The incorporation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child contributes to the visibility of the rights of the child. It is a way of creating a basis for a more child-right-based approach in all public activities. The Act is proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2020. Madam President, I would like In addition, we are now well on the way to developing a whole new social services law. It is over 30 years since today's Social Services Act came into force. Over the 30 years, our society has changed a lot. The many changes in society have meant that social services have been given responsibility for new groups, tasks and challenges. This, of course, places great demands on municipalities' social services and their staff. We want a social service that works with early and preventive efforts for children, women who are victims of violence, people with substance abuse problems and other groups and that the efforts should strengthen those who turn to social services. Preventive work, as part of the development of social work and preventing people from falling into line and becoming subject to official practice from the outset, is an important part of the social services inquiry. I am pleased that I am part of this work as part of the parliamentary reference group. Having said that, Madam President, I would like to endorse Amendment No 36 and the proposal in the rest of the report.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-228	Madam President, I would like Each individual is the most important starting point and perspective for Moderate politics and our social commitment. Our values are shaped by our view of man. We want to see the whole human being. Our proposals are based on the fact that the vast majority of children in Sweden are well off. At the same time, there are many children, young people and adults who feel bad — children, young people and adults living in an environment that is directly harmful. An important starting point is that the activities of social services should be financed jointly, fairly and in solidarity. The support and assistance of social services should be provided as needed and be available wherever in the country you live. All children, young people and adults have the right to feel secure. This security is greatly enhanced by the fact that there is trust in both their family and in society's contribution to ensuring that all children and young people are given reasonable conditions of upbringing. A clear children's perspective is also a central starting point. We must all be able to rely on clear laws and rules available whenever necessary. These laws and regulations should contribute to the protection and care of the best interests of children. The present Social Services Act is a patchwork of regulations and is too unclear and opaque. It needs to become the framework law that it was designed to function as and become more transparent and adapted to today's living conditions. Madam President, I would like It is crucial that quality work and follow-up be stepped up. These are demanding times, but this should not mean that quality and legal certainty are being blurred. Today there are not sufficiently clear quality instruments, but these need to be strengthened and made visible. Social services are under strong pressure. This leads to strong pressure on quality, safety and the working environment. The everyday life of social secretaries is characterised by a high workload, a sense of inadequacy and a high turnover of staff. Much of the tasks of social secretaries are spent on administration rather than on meetings with clients. Four out of ten children's and youth care managers say that they are unable to live up to the intentions of the Social Services Act. Many social secretaries feel that there will be long periods of investigation, that there will be new employees who will not be introduced and that many will stop at their own request. There will be a vicious circle of more and more complaints that have to be processed and investigated. Several stakeholders have called for the government to establish a national action plan for social care for children and young people. The Alliance government early saw these problems and therefore set up a national coordinator. It was a good step, at the same time as it was intended to be a first step by many in order to improve the situation of social services throughout the country. Madam President, I would like Reports show that a combination of activity requirements and economic incentives is most important in reducing benefit take-up and increasing employment. Many municipalities work actively with activity requirements in the supply support, but in many places it can be further improved.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-238	The Moderates consider that more people living on grants need to be subject to activity requirements. A reasonable requirement to make is, for example, that language teaching can take place during parental leave for those who also receive subsistence support. It could help foreign-born women to move closer to the labour market. Many municipalities also work successfully with home visits and outreach activities for those who live on grants. Home visits are an important tool for providing the right support to those in need of supply support but also for identifying cheating and incorrect payments. It also provides the opportunity to reach those who are not in contact with the labour market at all. The Social Services Act should therefore be revised in order for all municipalities to make regular and, if necessary, unannounced home visits. Madam President, I would like The fact that parents are not enough is one of the most difficult children and young people can be forced to experience. The ability of guardians to give the child what it needs for his or her development is crucial in assessing whether a child is at risk of harm in his or her own home. However, there is no clear limit to what can be considered unacceptable deficiencies in the guardian's ability to care for the child. Between two distinct extremes – adequate and clearly inadequate parenthood – there is a grey area which means that social services must take account of compensatory factors in the child's and family's network in an assessment of possible care. Unfortunately, every year, for various reasons, it is necessary to place many children and young people outside the home. It is about family homes, emergency homes, homes for care or housing and special youth homes. Lack of continuity and staffing in these homes are in danger of leading to lower quality and legal certainty, thus affecting already vulnerable children. I'm not gonna let that happen. Children's and youth care should be safe and continuous. It should be based on respect, consideration and a holistic view of the individual. However, the current LVU legislation lacks clear rules on these fundamental issues, which from the point of view of legal certainty is deeply unsatisfactory. Madam President, I would like There are visible shortcomings regarding collaboration between school, social services, police and health care. I am sure there are many reasons for this. What is absolutely certain is that these shortcomings must be minimised. Both children and young people, as well as their parents and other relatives, are at risk of being squeezed between the responsibilities and responsibilities of different authorities. This is particularly true in exclusion areas. Children and young people alternate between contacting school health services, health centres, youth clinics and children's psychiatry. These different units work with and use different methods. They will, but they should jointly try to develop common governance and management methods. It should always be clear where children and young people who feel bad and need help and support should turn. That is not the case today. Madam President, I would like Some of the activities of social services have the opportunity to use digitalisation more methodically. An exciting project is a collaboration between Lund University and Helsingborg City. The purpose of the project is to investigate and analyse the possibilities for a partially digitised social service. This is an example of the possibilities of daring to try new forms of social services that can meet people with the habit of having many of their contacts partly via social media. In this project, a group of researchers, clients and employees in social services will try to find out how clients experience their contacts with social services and, based on that knowledge base, develop solutions on how to modernise working methods and what digital tools are needed. However, the virtual communication of digitalisation can never replace the human meeting. On the other hand, those who need the help and support of social services can become more active in their own care and treatment. Madam President, I would like It is satisfactory that we have two announcements in this report. Of course, I support all the reservations of the Moderates, but for time to come I only support reservations 2, 11, 14 and 15.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-250	Madam President, I would like The report on social services deals with many issues in many different areas, and we have dealt with and taken a position on a great deal of exercise. These are issues relating to the work of the social services, cooperation between municipalities and restrictions on the right to assistance, to name a few. Both speakers before me have described in an exemplary way the importance of a well-functioning social service and how important it is to have a well-functioning society. Of course I agree with that description. There are a lot of reservations and subjects that I would like to touch on here today. Of course, I support all our reservations, but I have tried to limit myself to a few specific issues. The work of social services is not easy. For the most part, it is about making human judgments. It is therefore important, in our view, that such assessments should ensure that there is effective supervision and follow-up of social services. We have therefore also agreed that the government should investigate how to improve supervision and follow-up of social services. For us, it is also important that children do not fall between two chairs because different authorities have different responsibilities and different responsibilities. Therefore, the interaction of social services with other authorities must be increased. Today's report includes an announcement to increase the interaction between social services, schools, police, healthcare and the non-profit sector. We support this, because in between, it is not clear who is responsible for what. We believe that a proposal should be made to clarify this and to come back to Parliament in order for it to be able to make decisions. However, it is not only between authorities that cooperation and cooperation must be increased, but also across municipalities. There we can see some obstacles to cooperation, and those obstacles must be removed. Today, the legislation is protection of privacy. This is certainly a good thing, but I think there are also some problems in it – for example that a municipality does not send a complaint to another municipality that a child gets hurt after the family has moved. I myself have been on the social welfare committee of my municipality and have read such investigations. Not infrequently can one see that there is a system — that parents put it in a system. Unfortunately, when a complaint comes in, the family chooses to move, and the new municipality is not allowed to take part in the complaint. When it comes to children, we believe that there must be a notification of concerns at national level, at national level, so that there is a problem in the system when a family moves and there is a complaint from a previous municipality. That is not how it works today. Here we need to develop proposals that are genuinely in the best interests of the children. It is not about chasing the parents, it is about ensuring that no child gets hurt no matter how much a family moves. As I said before, social services have no easy job. During a period of time there has also been a lot of pressure, and in connection with this, it has been difficult to recruit. Yasmine Larsson described the situation of social services in a very good and correct way; that is exactly what it has looked like, and that is exactly what it looks like. There is a reservation in the report on the specific competence requirements, which we also support. The point is that proposals have been made to ease the eligibility requirements for social security secretaries precisely in order to be able to recruit more easily. Here I think that a thought has been made, and I agree with the reservation. That's the wrong way to go. The bigger the challenges, the more important it is that those who make decisions have the right skills. We therefore believe that the eligibility requirements for social secretaries should not be relaxed. The importance of this is highlighted not least in today's media reporting, where it can be read that people with certain types of disabilities are at risk of not receiving the support they need – precisely because of a lack of training among administrators and because there are no national requirements for the administrators who will work to assess people. Here I mean that you can see exactly the same problem. There should also be national requirements for social security secretaries to handle and assess. Mr President, I would like to Much in this report is simply about ensuring good quality, clarifying and evaluating. Another point I think needs clarification and which is not sufficiently clear is the extent to which and how long the municipalities are obliged to provide assistance to those who are in the country without authorisation. It is therefore a question of aid to people who do not even have the right to reside in our country. Here we firmly believe that the person who has been refused a residence permit should not be entitled to the assistance of the municipality, and I therefore ask for the consent of reservation 13. The Government has appointed the investigation Future Social Services, which will review the Social Services Act in a broad perspective. I welcome it and I think it's great. In the directive, however, I miss the question of how to strengthen the rights of older people in the Social Services Act. We believe that the government should examine the possibility of giving the investigation a supplementary directive on this issue. That is why I am also in favour of reservation 4, Mr President. Incidentally, I would like to add that I have different colors on my socks, of course, in honour of the day.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-266	Mr President, audiences, viewers and listeners! The red-green feminist government works systematically and purposefully for a long-term sustainable welfare policy, and not least to develop and strengthen activities in the field of social services. We are now debating a motion for a resolution of nearly 200 pages and it contains a total of 401 different motions. That may not be true, however, because many of the claims are very similar to their content. But it is still 401 different claims that are handled. For example, the similarity of the proposals in many motions can be seen from the fact that these 401 claims have resulted in only 48 points of decision and only 73 reservations. There could have been a lot more. I am not saying this in order to encourage the debaters to insist on many reservations, Mr President, but rather on the contrary. Most of us Members think that it is often quite unnecessary to have long votes – the important thing is that the reservations are in the report so that we can show them, for example, in the forthcoming elections when we are going to work to influence our voters to support our positions. To those listeners who are not familiar with Parliament's working methods, it can be said, very simplisticly, that a motion report deals with proposals from Members of Parliament. Whether the Riksdag considers the proposals to be good or not, the routine is that they are rejected. It may sound strange, but good proposals can then be processed, for example, in the departments and come back to Parliament as proposals from the government – what is called proposals. This is probably the most common time for the proposals we Members make during the general period of exercise. This procedure is intended to ensure that proposals adopted in this House have been examined and nailed by the main lawyers; that is what we have legislative referrals for. Of course, we do not want Parliament to be hasty and to make decisions that can have unexpected and very difficult consequences. It can be said that this approach is Parliament's method of practicing what is called the precautionary principle in the EU. The normal thing is that we who represent government parties are not very diligent in exercising. In fact, we can put our proposals directly to our ministers. That is why, of course, most of the claims come from the representatives of the opposition parties. However, when I looked at the list of all the proposals, I was able to see that we environmentalists were not entirely able to keep away from exercising in the field of social services, but only 6 of the 401 proposals come from members of the Green Party. Among other things, it is a requirement I have been pushing myself since 2004, namely the requirement for the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child to become Swedish law. And today I received it in the post – the government bill for the Convention on the Rights of the Child to become a law in Sweden. Working in the Riksdag therefore often requires both long-term endurance and a great deal of patience. As has been pointed out, this motion for a resolution deals with proposals in the area of social services. This means that the report is very broad and contains a lot of interesting issues, of which we have heard the previous speaker mention examples and which I could talk about for hours. I understand, however, that we have been asked to stick to the very limited speaking time available, because the House is running out of time until this Parliament is dissolved this summer. I have therefore decided not to take up too much time. If I were to start describing green policies in areas such as social services heads, digitalisation issues, the skills supply problems we are all well aware of, substance abuse care, custody issues, child marriages, unaccompanied minors, violence in close relationships or adoption issues, I know that I would exceed my registered speaking time very much, although these are just a few examples. I am therefore leaving this; other speakers have mentioned examples, and I am sure that more will. Nor will I try to call for lines on something I have said, because it usually also takes a long time. I will end by saying the following: the Green Party is in one of the reservations in the report, but we all know that the government is actually already working on developing and improving welfare – even in the area of reservation. This is an announcement about better opportunities to write high-quality opinions within the time limit. We have heard about this before, and we all know how hard it is. But we also know that the government is working on this. For example, we heard Yasmine Larsson mention that during this parliamentary term a great deal of resources has actually been added, and I might also have mentioned it if I had had more speaking time. A lot of things have happened that have been very strenuous for the professional social secretary, so we know that the situation is difficult. However, the government is working on this. Announcements are to be used restrictively if they are to retain their value. I think there will be some sandbox over the Riksdag when the opposition makes announcements that the government will take measures that it knows the government is already working with and that it knows that a lot of work is being done on a continuous basis. In fact, the municipalities are primarily responsible for these issues. They set priorities on the basis of the conditions they have. We have made sure that they have better economic conditions. The fact that this is the case must be accepted by all governments.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-279	Mr President, I would like to Today we have gathered in this House to debate the class society for once, or at least those who pay the price for it. Social services are the ultimate safety net our welfare society has. That is where we come when our life situation is truly untenable. It is social services that should ensure that we do not fall completely outside the framework of society or end up in total poverty. But social services are also a temperature meter when it comes to how our country is doing and how widespread the class society is. The more people need to have their rights met through social services, the greater the gaps between people. How we then respond to those seeking support from social services is a direct reflection of the human outlook that prevails in our country. The understanding of the importance of class society for people to end up in social or economic vulnerability was one of the reasons for the emergence of the social services law we now have. In the past, the poverty laws had been marked by strong control of people, who were to be disciplined to repentance – a view based on the starting point that the poor was unsuspecting and had himself to blame. The new law came to take a completely new direction with an understanding of the impact of social structures on people. From the point of view of the individual, social services would now be service-oriented and helpful. It was a law that would stand up for people's value and secure their rights. Today, social services are in deep crisis. In a report after a report, we can read about how the work situation of social secretaries is becoming increasingly unsustainable. We see an increase in sick leave, an increasing number of people experiencing stress and more and more people leaving work because of the heavy workload. Alarm after alarm comes that the tight financial framework and increased political governance combined with the high workload mean that the risk of breaking the law is imminent. Those who pay the highest price are those who live in social or economic vulnerability. People who, for various reasons, live under very difficult conditions are in danger of not getting the help they are entitled to. At worst, people's lives are at stake. From having previously been needs-driven, the work of social services has now become more and more performance-driven. The enormous demands placed on individuals today are based on outdated ideas that the socially vulnerable have not made sufficient efforts and are in fact trying to embed our systems. Mr President, I would like to One of the causes of the crisis we are witnessing today is the political priorities of the previous government and the Swedish Democrats. Their very effective dismantling of our common social security systems has led to people who have become ill or unemployed no longer being covered by our welfare system but instead falling into the lap of social services. At the same time, trust in the skills of social workers has been replaced by solid control systems where efficiency is the goal, not that people should be helped to get back on their feet. Social work has had to stand back for market logic, where keeping the budget is the ultimate goal of social services. What does this say about our society, and what about our view of humanity? Placing the blame on the victim is a way for neoliberals to conceal the unfair distribution policies they pursue. The more you scoff at those who pay the price for their policies, the easier it is to break our security systems. When a red-green government does not use its time in power to stop that development, but instead continues the pursuit of the vulnerable, it bears witness that the government has fallen into the rhetoric of the bourgeoisie. Unfortunately, the fact that a Social Democratic-led government is almost visionless in the face of a social service in a burning crisis speaks clearly of both human vision and the state of society. Mr President, I would like to The role of social services is to counter the class gaps and to prevent the effects of the class society. Therefore, the Left Party has a vision of how social services will develop into a modern and timely social function with social work in focus – a social service where it is easy for us to seek help when we need it, which strengthens people in vulnerable life situations and enables change. It should be a social service where the staff feel proud, where the social work is governing and where the staff should feel that at the end of the working day they have been able to give people tools to get back on their feet. For us, the role of social services is not to strengthen the vulnerable position of people but to provide an opportunity to combat it. We in the Left Party want to build a Sweden for all and not just for a few. That is why we have ensured that we strengthen welfare and get financial investment into social services in the budget negotiations. But there's more to it than that. We have therefore launched a motion proposing a series of measures to build a modernised social service that is equipped to meet people's needs from a rights perspective. Of course, we support all our reservations, but in order to save time, I only ask for reservations 1 and 37.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-292	Mr President, I would like to Liberalism in Sweden has always paid attention to forgotten groups in society, from Bertil Ohlin's "forgotten Sweden" in the 1930s to Bengt Westerberg's LSS reform and the recent efforts to improve and deepen integration. It is about those who live in difficult conditions but receive no or very little attention in the debate or in politics. It is about people who find it difficult to make their voices heard. They often belong to small groups, which has made it easy for decision-makers to completely ignore them. Still, the view of people with a problematic use of drugs or alcohol is that they blame themselves. Still, despite the efforts of recent decades to pay attention and explain mental illness, too often it is said that it is only about getting in the collar and working a little harder. Children still suffer in Sweden. These are people who are often forgotten because they weigh lightly on election day because of their weak vote. A sign of this is the response to the exercise on vulnerable EU citizens, which refers to the cooperation agreement with Romania. It is an agreement in which the Roma, the most vulnerable group, are not even mentioned. Sometimes children need to be cared for in order to ensure a safe and safe environment for their upbringing, and this should be done. However, children are sometimes taken care of too quickly and without sufficient evidence. There is also the fact that intervention is too late when a child is harmed, and the result is forced action that could otherwise have been avoided. With intensive efforts at home, such delayed interventions could be avoided altogether. The home-plan solutions that have been implemented have proved successful. We see fewer re-uptakes in social services, better results in schools and families who feel better. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's study Health and care for placed children showed that the mortality rate is almost five times higher for placed children and young people, that self-harm is ten times higher and that the use of psychopharmaceuticals is between 15 and 19 times higher than for children and young people in the general population. That is why I am surprised to read the Center's movements to lower the requirements for training of social services staff and the requirements for training for new family homes. For me and the Liberals, this is quite the wrong way to go. We want higher standards and more education for family homes. In addition to better supervision and competence development among families, there are financial conditions that need to be reviewed in order for more people to be able to take on this important task. Family homes are contractors and not employees, which means that in the meantime they have a very precarious job as a family home. For example, they do not receive an occupational pension or unemployment benefit. We often talk about cooperation and cooperation. Cooperation between different bodies, such as schools, school health care, social services and child and youth psychiatry, on children placed outside their own home really needs to be strengthened. Many placed children have neglected health problems and, due to lack of care, have not been allowed to attend routine health checks. Research shows that family homes have very high over-risks of future problems, such as problematic consumption of drugs or alcohol, criminality and mental illness. We have also seen that approved school results have a great protective effect on these children. School failures in placed children are often due more to gaps in schooling and stress combined with low expectations than to lack of cognitive ability. Some municipalities have developed models for structured work with these children. Schoolfam is a shining example. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare and the Swedish National Agency for Education came in 2013 with a guide for placed children, Placed children's schooling and health – a joint responsibility, where it was pointed out, among other things, that for many children placed there is no data on health checks and vaccinations. This is also true of those who today are adults but were placed as children. We know that anyone who has been placed as a child is at high risk of mental illness as an adult. Today, however, there is no national follow-up of how many children are or have been placed in the care of society or how they have turned out. There is also no register of reports of concern. The municipalities have their own registers, but they look different in different places and have different quality. There is very little research in this area, but the studies available indicate that about a quarter of all notifications lead to efforts. The problem is that we do not know what it is about the three-quarters that do not lead to any intervention; we do not know whether there is a need for any intervention or whether it is for other reasons that there is no intervention. National follow-up would also facilitate the provision of a compulsory health plan for all children cared for, as well as the screening of the level of knowledge in order to better obtain the right support at school. It would also lead to knowledge about the children who actually die under care, which we do not have today. National procedures and rules are needed for the measures to be taken when a child dies in the care of society. The mismanagement investigation showed that many children placed in community care have been subjected to abuse as well as abuse and sometimes pure neglect. After the investigation, very little has been done to follow up the children who today are adults, even though we know exactly what I have listed. They don't have vaccinations. They have poor schooling. Many also suffer from posttraumatic stress. More research and follow-up of children is needed in order to increase knowledge, especially in healthcare and psychiatry, and to reach those who have previously been placed and to be able to provide them with the right support. According to the School Act, student health must primarily work preventive and health promotion, and each student must be offered at least three health visits. We know that violence is too common in Sweden despite the law of children, which is old. The routine question of violence is a preventive measure and there should be clear guidelines for school health care to routinely ask questions about violence. Social services have a special responsibility for children and young people aged between 0 and 20. If it has been assessed that a young person needs support from social services, it should not end abruptly on the 18th anniversary, but it should be phased out. However, when a young asylum seeker or newcomer is considered to be over 18 years old, a large part of society's support often disappears at once. At municipal level, different assessments are made of how much support young asylum seekers and newcomers need when they are over 18 years of age. Of course, different young people have different needs. We believe that it should be the individual need, not how long it has been in the country, to decide when the aid will end. We had a debate in this House a few weeks ago on the situation in child and youth psychiatry. That was very wise. Mental ill-health is unfortunately very common among children and young people in Sweden. According to a knowledge review, up to 40 percent suffer from anxiety, depression, and sleeping difficulties. And about 10 percent of all children and young people suffer from more serious mental illness, such as depression. Among unaccompanied children and adolescents, this is even more common and is often about post-traumatic stress disorder, anxiety and depression. Self-harm and suicide attempts are over-represented in this group. Suicides carried out are also reported to such an extent that we have to see this group as an extra vulnerable group. The long processing times are a contributing factor, but also concern for the future and for family members and friends in other parts of the world. In other motions, the Liberals highlight the importance of shorter processing times, re-unification of families, special reasons such as the basis of residence permits and three-year temporary residence permits. It is also important in this context. I shall then turn to another question, which I think has a flawed answer in the report. The UN's human rights state that every adult has the right to have children. It is a position which, among other things, is designed to prevent certain groups from being subjected to forced sterilisation. The right to become a parent applies to everyone, and people with cognitive difficulties are not and should not be excluded. However, people with cognitive disabilities often need more support. Young adults with cognitive difficulties, such as an intellectual disability, an acquired brain injury or a neuropsychiatric disability within the autism spectrum, such as Asperger, often do not have the ability to care for a child on their own. Many also find it difficult to accept the need for extra support, which affects both themselves and the children. When it comes to receiving support, it is a great responsibility for the individual himself to seek and receive help and support. We also see a high proportion of these children being taken care of and placed in community care. Today, there are no national guidelines to stick to when a person with cognitive difficulties is expecting a child. Some areas have come a long way in the work of municipalities and county councils. It is about both prevention and work during pregnancy and afterwards. There are examples of municipalities where you can borrow a computer doll and simply train yourself to take care of a child and test being a parent. It has turned out that it leads to fewer teenage pregnancies. There is very little research in this area, but there is research that shows that the right support for prospective parents increases the conditions for them to be able to take care of their children. But this help and support need to be available throughout the child's childhood. That also needs to change. There are those who can handle parenting, but not all. And there is currently nothing to regulate prevention. For children, this support needs to be available throughout childhood. Knowledge of what it means to have a parent with cognitive difficulties must be increased. This is particularly true in schools and preschools. Many times it is these children who end up outside the Community. They are bullied or find it difficult to pass school for various reasons. According to research, 42 percent of the children of parents with an intellectual disability were delayed in their own development without having their own intellectual disability. Since it is only when parents fail in their parental role that social services have a responsibility, it has often gone far too far before the children get the help they should have. Compulsory support should be available as soon as a pregnancy has been identified, but it is lacking. An estimate says that about 1,400 children of parents with cognitive difficulties are born each year, and somewhere between 40 and 60 percent of them are placed more or less directly in community care. These are children whose voices are never heard. Finally, as one of the first countries in the world, Sweden ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child in 1990, and now finally the proposal to make it a bill has landed on the table of Parliament. The first and second Additional Protocols to the Convention on the Rights of the Child have also been ratified, but not the third Additional Protocol, which gives children an individual right of appeal, which is otherwise missing from the Convention on the Rights of the Child. This does not mean new rights for children, but it is a complementary tool for children to assert and enforce their rights on the basis of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. In practice, children are currently given limited opportunities to appeal against decisions concerning them, especially given that children must always have the consent of guardians for complaints. Children's rights must be strengthened in many areas, and the Convention on the Rights of the Child as a law is part of it. Of course, it is not possible to settle down. There's always more to do. Of course, I therefore coat the socks today – on the International Down Syndrome Day – to beat a blow for the equal value and rights of all people and to lift everyone's unique conditions. Of course, we Liberals support all our motions and reservations, but for time to come, I only support reservations 30, 32 and 50.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-319	Mr President, I would like to According to the National Board of Health and Welfare, 124 000 people were dependent on income support at some point in 2016, not all the time, but at some point, and this was precisely due to unemployment. In addition, there were a number of other reasons which led to a temporary or longer-term dependency on supply aid. It is interesting that the most important activity, I could say, when it comes to the basic conditions for people – to have a place to live, to have something to do, to work and to be able to contribute to their own livelihood and to have a reasonably good life – lies in a municipality, in an authority whose working conditions are often not met at all positively for the staff. One might think that this should be the most important activity we have. The main clause of the Social Services Act states that "Social services must promote, on the basis of democracy, people's economic and social security, equality in living conditions and active participation in society". So it is one of the most important public service missions that can be carried out at all. It is about support for food and rent, care of children, housing for addicts and decisions on adoptions and more. These are things that really affect the whole life of people and that can be of an incredibly important character for you to want to live and take care of your family at all, if you have one. All difficult tasks require both facts about the background and the current situation as well as empathy with the individual who comes and seeks help. Organisation and leadership are of great importance for how tasks are handled and how the work environment is perceived. We know that; there is plenty of research on that. Unfortunately, we also know that the public is not the best at it, and the social area is definitely no exception. Maintaining and developing staff who have and gain experience in difficult and complex issues that affect people's well-being should be a priority in the social services of a municipality. It is not reasonable for newly trained sociologists to be given the most difficult tasks, which make them work and dislike their job before they have barely started and therefore change their place of work in the belief that it might be better in some other municipality. In this case, one might think that it should be like in the care, where the less experienced doctor has to make an initial assessment and then it goes on to a more experienced doctor and specialist who does the actions themselves. I started by mentioning that 124 000 people have been dependent on income support because of unemployment. That is why I am very surprised when the Left Party's rhetoric is about human views and that the alliance parties in the previous government period did not understand the very good and bad of people. Then I can tell the Left Party and everyone else that when phase 3 was closed down, the job and development guarantee for which the previous government was responsible, more than 30 000 people were also thrown into unemployment – thus to nothing. People who had a place in work experience, work training or a job in an integrated social enterprise were not allowed to remain either. What kind of politics is that for people's welfare? What is the view of human dignity when people are thrown out without compensation? We heard speeches from certain parties during the previous government period. What happened to the social security system now? It completely fails when people do not get the decisions they need even though they have been with qualified doctors. So we are removing the carpet from a whole profession by saying that your assessments are not good enough, but we who sit in this office at Försäkringskassan, we know better than anyone else who has apparently made medical assessments, and if we make administrative assessments there is a completely different consequence and consequence. Where do these people end up? They end up in social services, I can tell you, my friends. They end up there eventually because they have no other option. The strange thing is that the very activity that we are debating here and that we all care about in different ways is the activity that we ourselves would never want to be dependent on. But for that very reason, that none of us know anything about that moment or the day in our lives when we could become dependent on social services, I think we have an extra responsibility to influence the design of social services so that it becomes as good as possible. Mr President, I would like to I am also exceeding the speaking time at the moment, but I am committed to this issue, and in my final part I would particularly like to go into two areas. My colleague from the Liberals mentioned earlier precisely the care of children and placements in family homes. I would really like to point out that we Christian Democrats think that family homes are doing a fantastic job. However, the conditions for operating a family home are very different, not least in terms of compensation, as mentioned here. I think it is incredible that we have not managed to solve the situation with this amazing job being done not being able to contribute to a good pension. I really think that the best position of trust you can get is to be able to take care of other people's children, and in other types of positions of trust you had never bought the solution that family homes have and have had for so long. The second area which I would just like to highlight briefly, and where I also call for the approval of reservation 73 from the Christian Democrats, concerns those who have come to Sweden from another EU country, who is temporarily resident here and who live in a vulnerable situation both in their home country and when they come here. It is incredibly important for free movement within the EEA that the existing framework should be followed. The EU Social Fund should focus on giving direct to non-profit organisations working not least with Roma in Romania and Bulgaria, rather than providing support to these countries, which obviously cannot take care of it. When our parliamentary group was in Brussels talking to the highest level of responsibility in the Commission for this work, they agreed that this should go directly to the organisations working with the people it concerns. We therefore believe that the government should work towards such work within the EU and return to Parliament as soon as possible.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-337	Mr President, I would like to The large number of exercises this year on care for the elderly show both interest and a broad consensus on the issues of care for the elderly across party boundaries when it comes to what we want for the elderly to look like in the future. However, in order for us to be sure that people get care where they are safe and feel involved, we need to develop and change a whole range of things. One should also know that good care must also be given priority when it comes to the budget. Does the equation of more elderly people, as we become in society at a rapid pace, go hand in hand with large tax cuts? Nevertheless, not everything is about resources, but it is also about an approach, another way of organising care with the great resources that already exist and have come in particular this parliamentary term. During this term of office, the government has historically carried out major economic efforts in the field of the elderly with 7 billion more for staff of various kinds, dieticians and so on. It doesn't just have to be caring staff. Many sports also address issues and areas where municipalities actually decide for themselves what the care of the elderly residents should look like. Municipal self-government prevails. We often hear from the pulpit that many parties are turning for local self-government, but that is inconsistent. It's used every once in a while a little as it suits. Mr President, I would like to In December 2017, the Government presented the Law Council referral Simplified decision-making on home care for the elderly. This law is intended to apply from 1 July this year. It will offer older people easier care measures without the need to carry out a major investigation. This is positive for all the elderly, not least for their relatives who have had to intervene in the past and make the simple efforts. It also increases the possibility for the elderly to be involved and decide what they want help with in everyday life. This helps prevent and relieve the relatives. The administration is significantly reduced, and the resources that are left over, the crowns and the crowns, can instead be used directly in the care. This approach has been practiced in Linköping municipality for six years, and in practice it has worked excellently. The legislative change that is now being implemented quickly is a step in the right direction, but it will be voluntary for municipalities to introduce the working method. I hope and believe that all municipalities realize how good the way of working is and take advantage of it, i.e. is fast in the starting blocks and makes decisions to introduce the working method. The bill shall be open to debate in plenary on 22 May. Although the bill is ready and ready for decision – it was presented the day before yesterday, is ready and the date of the parliamentary debate is set – bourgeois members have asked for a committee initiative. I can't quite understand the reason. When I read the committee initiative, I can see that what is on paper is implemented and will take effect on 1 July. What do you want the government to do? The committee initiative instrument is to call on the government to do something that it has not done or that it really does not want to do at all. What do the bourgeois Members want with this? Mr President, I would like to To smell freshly prepared food is a matter of course – it should be a matter of course. Food is not just a matter of survival; it is something that is preventive. It helps us all to stay healthy and alert if we eat right. However, older people are at a much higher risk of malnutrition. It's one of our major problems in care for the elderly. Then it does not help that the nutritional content is correct in the food that is on the plate or in the plastic box that you have in front of you if the food is not appetizing. The meal situation may be boring and boring, and you eat alone. If you don't eat it, it won't help. Mr President, I would like to Today there is a quality of care for the elderly, but too often the possibility of joy and a meaningful existence are lacking. Is there anything to look forward to when you wake up every day? Do you long for tomorrow? What's happening today? It's often empty. You sit and wait for the meal, which is also not always so much to long for. New generations also have different habits from the previous generation — the grateful generation. There must be time for what you want to do, for what you have been used to doing in the past, for example, when you live in a particular dwelling. It is too shrewd with that content today in everyday life. Many accommodations don't even have an internet connection. It's sad. You want to be able to communicate with your children, grandchildren or friends. There are not many channels in the TV offering either. Most elderly people in Sweden were unable to follow the Olympic Games this year. That possibility was gone because the residents had not invested in those channels. It is old-fashioned and limited, and it is not really about big money. Madam President, I would like Staffing is important, and there must be time to exercise care. We'll need staff. That is why, during this parliamentary term, we have invested in hiring many more, and that also applies to the future. Care will increase by 14 000 people in the future. But it's not just a matter of having a person employed, it's just as important that that person is the right person for the job, has the right education and that we know what the education contains. It's incredibly important. An investigation is therefore now under way to clarify what a similar training course should look like throughout the country with a possible assistant identity. Well-trained, initiative-rich staff with good managers is the key, and that is what develops elderly care. Madam President, I would like Society is developing and changing at a rapid pace – and therefore also the demands. What we consider today to be a good care for the elderly for today's pensioners is not at all the same care for the elderly that is needed for tomorrow's elderly. I would like to endorse Amendment No 9 and reject all other motions.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-352	Madam President, I would like We are in favour of all moderate reservations, but for time winning, I am only in favour of reservations 1 and 13. As we live longer and longer, we must look at old age with new eyes. Research shows that learning and development is possible far up in the years. New hip and knee joints, starved eyes and hearing aids provide the opportunity for an active and healthy life for a long time. It is fantastic and gives both seniors and society unimagined opportunities. Unfortunately, we are talking too little about the active role that older people can play in society after retirement. They are a strong resource that should be taken better. There are just over 2 million who are over 65 years old in Sweden, that is 20 percent of our population. About half a million is over 80 years old. The increase in the number of older people is rapid. Of course, with increasing age the problems come. Then there should be good care with quality and choice. There should of course be a dignified care and security to be reckoned with. Then we need to get rid of the long care queues, and the whole care chain should stick together – especially for those who need it most, that is, our multi-sick elderly. Unfortunately, we are now seeing the results of almost four years of red-green policy. Care queues have doubled in Sweden. The elderly multi-sick people are at risk of being given the absolute worst care. Sadly, most of the visits to our emergency departments are elderly people who are at risk of waltzing around in the care. You get into the emergency room, at best to an outpatient ward for a while. Then you are discharged to a short-term home and then you get to go home with medical care at home. Then you get worse, and then you're back in the emergency room with waiting and insecurity. This is often the case in Sweden in too many places, and that is not acceptable. We Moderates want to strengthen the elderly's right to a long and dignified life based on the needs and desires of each individual. It is about the right to privacy, to physical integrity, to participation and greater opportunities for self-determination than today in self-care and care. Loneliness is a great risk when you grow old. We want to break the involuntary loneliness so that you can regularly get out in the fresh air, meet others and feel community. It is important to point out that older people should be treated with respect, and their wishes should be taken seriously. We Moderates believe that social services should and can be designed with a simplified aid assessment regarding the right to home care. This will reduce administration and increase the elderly's own rights. Why should an official decide on every minute of home duty? Even as an old man, I can usually decide what's best for me. We are particularly pleased with the announcement made by the committee to the government on just simplified aid assessment with increased self-determination over everyday life. A sad figure is that nearly 40 000 elderly people in Sweden suffer from malnutrition. It's an entire city or community. In addition, over 100,000 people are at risk of malnutrition. That is totally unacceptable. We all know that it is not about lack of food but about other underlying causes. Thus, in our exercise, we propose a meal lift throughout the care of the elderly. The meal is so much more than the food on the plate. It is, above all, an important factor in a healthy life. If you don't get nourishment, you'll soon be fragile. The fact that so many people suffer from malnutrition in special housing and care is particularly serious. As we see it, the government is doing far too little to tackle this problem. Madam President, I would like For care to work, many more nurses are required. In far too many places it is difficult today to ensure care for the elderly. Six out of ten municipalities answer that they find it difficult to recruit, and among those who work in the care sector four out of ten lack adequate vocational training. The need to employ is increasing every year ahead, and the need is 10,000 nurses each year in both municipal and private care. There is a great shortage in all occupational groups of welfare. This applies not only to nurses but also to nurses, doctors, psychologists and others. The problems are greater than the government acknowledges, and the efforts are too small, despite the fact that we have a huge boom. SKL has warned that 50 percent of all municipalities find it difficult to find nurses and that it has never been so difficult. In this context, substantial measures and efforts must be made to meet quality and needs. We do not see that the government has taken this major challenge seriously enough. We Moderates say that there is a need for more training places, continuous competence development and long-term leadership training. We must have staff who are happy and want to work in Swedish care for the elderly. In order to ensure high quality throughout the country, we Moderates want to introduce quality contracts laying down certain requirements. A floor, one might call it, to ensure the safety of older people regardless of their place of residence. It looks very different in Sweden. It will take much more digital technology for us to cope with the care of the future. These can be things that already exist today, pharmaceutical machines, camera surveillance and robots that facilitate everyday life. We're only at the beginning of the digital era. Madam President, I would like If we politicians do not take responsibility and see the problems, great difficulties will shape tomorrow's elderly care. These include a lack of housing, a shortage of staff and a risk of deterioration in quality and safety. The starting point of the Moderates is that we put man before the systems. There are parts of Swedish care that we can be proud of, and we have fantastic staff in many places. But there are also major differences and shortcomings. Loneliness, malnutrition and staff shortages are such examples and are not acceptable. We can agree on a lot, but the Moderates believe that the government does not take sufficient responsibility in this very urgent area.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-370	Madam President, I would like We are now debating older people's issues. It is used to say that one can measure a country's degree of decency based on how sick people, older people and children are treated. That is something we can bear in mind today. The elderly in Sweden deserve access to the world's best care for the elderly. We can never accept that older people die alone or end their lives socially isolated or that people are very worried about getting old because of lack of care. Here we politicians have a great responsibility, because people should be able to age with dignity. The day you find it difficult to fend for yourself, society will go in and offer the help needed for older people to continue living a safe and meaningful life. Madam President, I would like I'll take you back in time. Let's refresh our memory a little and make a time trip to autumn 2010. That's when the mission review made an attentive report about the inadequacy of staffing in the care of the elderly. The pictures we saw then, as you will remember, were dementia sick alone and only dressed in diapers wandering around in a retirement home in Piteå. As a result, the National Board of Health and Welfare made unannounced visits to 94 dementia homes in 48 municipalities. What came to light at that time was that in just over 60 per cent of the residents, dementia was locked in at night and left at times alone. In 70 per cent of the accommodations the staffing was so low that it was impossible to guarantee safety and safety at night. Madam President, I would like As a result, we drove Swedish democrats and the then opposition in parliament, S, MP and V, through the task of the National Board of Health and Welfare to develop guidelines for staffing dementia homes. The assignment was then extended to all retirement homes, not just dementia homes. In the spring of 2012 came the first draft regulations for night crewing. Several years later, in April 2015, the National Board of Health and Welfare presented new regulations for staffing retirement homes and dementia homes. This proposal contained binding rules on staffing requirements 24 hours a day. In other words, there would no longer be unattended branches of care for the elderly. However, in February 2016, the current government rejected the National Board of Health and Welfare's proposal for new regulations and threw them in the trash. Instead, they launched their own proposal which was much vaguer than that of the National Board of Health and Welfare. The Government's proposal merely introduced rules for access to retirement home staff and not, as in the previous proposal from the National Board of Health and Welfare, for retirement homes and retirement home departments to be staffed 24 hours a day. We Swedish democrats already warned in several debate papers that the new rules would not change anything. Since then, we have raised a number of motions in the Riksdag to introduce rules on staffing requirements in retirement homes, but unfortunately we have not heard about these demands. It has now been two years since the government introduced the watered-down proposal. What about it? I'm afraid we got it right. It hasn't gotten any better. The newspaper says that older people are still locked up at night in retirement homes despite new rules. This is because the rules imposed by the government are far too vague and fuzzy. According to IVO, there is still far too little staffing on many retirement homes around the country. The residents, among them many dementia sufferers, are still locked up at night. Of course, it is both obscene and a betrayal of the elderly that they are being treated in this way. Madam President, I would like What is most remarkable and regrettable is that the government parties today do not think as they did when they were in opposition. I was on the Social Affairs Committee myself in 2010, and then we all agreed that there would be no unattended departments in the care of the elderly. But that is clearly not the position of government. I would say that this is one of the government's greatest betrayals of the elderly during this term of office. If the government is serious about the elderly being able to feel safe in retirement homes, it should take on board the criticism that exists and tighten up the legislation in this area as we Swedish democrats propose and have long proposed. We believe that you should be able to be sure that there are staff at hand when you need it, no matter what time of day it is. There is therefore a need for binding staffing requirements. Madam President, I would like Another important thing is that older people should be able to sense meaning in their lives. It is about creating the conditions for what gives life courage, joy of life and a sense of context. Older people who are troubled by loneliness often do not feel a joy of life or a sense of context, but they often feel sicker and tired and eat more medicines than older people who do not feel alone. This ultimately leads to an increased need for care. The National Board of Health and Welfare estimates that it is almost 100 000 elderly people in care for the elderly who are troubled by loneliness. We Swedish democrats believe that the social needs of older people need greater attention than is being done today. Therefore, we believe that an appropriate authority should be given the task of monitoring the extent to which municipal support in the form of daytime activities and social meeting places can reduce the loneliness of older people, and on the basis of this follow-up develop guidance for municipalities in the work to reduce the loneliness of older people. Madam President, I would like We are in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservations 8 and 20.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-389	Madam President, listeners and listeners! Maybe you're starting to think I'm a bitch. But the red-green feminist government is actually working systematically and purposefully for a long-term sustainable welfare policy. Older people may be the area where this approach is clearer and more important than in many other areas – but perhaps not in the area of environment and natural resources. This motion for a resolution on the issue of the elderly deals with a total of 99 different requests, and they have come together in 17 different decision-making points, or policies, and there have been 23 reservations. But that does not mean that older people would be less important than social services, as we discussed earlier, just because there are fewer decision points and fewer reservations. These are really important issues. The responsibility for the elderly lies mainly with the municipalities, and this government has ensured that the municipalities have been given considerable boosts in their finances during this term of office in order, among other things, to increase their ambitions in the area of the elderly. What we can do from Parliament is, in addition to providing resources, about simplifying, developing and improving legislation. Among other things, the government has worked to simplify for municipalities to work with aid trials regarding the needs of the elderly. It is a question of being able to deviate from the rules of the Local Government Act on Equal Treatment, so that decisions can be taken on simpler measures for the elderly without a lengthy investigation, that is to say, what is called a simplified aid assessment. The proposal for simplified assistance testing for older people was put on Parliament's table yesterday – on 20 March, as stated in the bill list. So the timetable has been kept. This was known by the opposition when, at the time of the adjustment, it chose to formulate an announcement on this issue as well. When the representatives of the Moderates stand here in the speaker's chair and say that they are particularly pleased with the announcement of what is already on the table of the Riksdag, they wonder how the opposition is thinking. The description of problems that has been preferred here from the speaker's seat is largely, I would say, the result of two years of alliance policy. I find it strange, to say the least, that the opposition chooses to make an announcement when there is already a ready-made proposal from the government. Madam President, I would like In fact, I am perhaps not so surprised by the very irresponsible management of the parliamentary tools that the opposition has been engaged in. Overuse of announcements reduces their value. I can admit that I have sometimes wondered whether the opposition in the various committee groups has some kind of informal, for us unknown, contest over which committee group can produce the most announcements. I would therefore like to sum up today's three debates in the field of social affairs with the words: Fy, phy, phy, phy, phy, phy, for the irresponsible use of Parliament's sharpest form of criticism by the government. Notices shall be applied with care and thought, so that they do not water down the tool to pure futility.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-400	Madam President, I would like Today's and the future's elderly care affects us all in a slightly different way. We can be patients or relatives. I am also thinking of all those who support elderly care and who work there under stressful working conditions and with relatively low wages. Most of us surely have family members, acquaintances or relatives who live in an elderly home or have home care. That is why this issue concerns all of us. A good care for the elderly is a welfare issue, but not just that. It is also an important issue of equality and equality. Developed and well-functioning care for the elderly is also a prerequisite for women to be able to participate fully in the labour market and have an income, and if it wants a pension that they can survive on. The goal of the Left Party is equal care for the elderly. In order to get there, elderly care, and specifically municipalities, needs to be provided with resources, working conditions for elderly care staff are significantly improved and profit interests in elderly care are removed. It's about welfare, and it's about equality. It can then be said that tax cuts are not a way forward, at least on this issue. The staff is the gold. It's the staff that's building the elderly resorge n. In the budget negotiations with the government, we pushed through an annual investment of 2 billion in care for the elderly to strengthen staffing. Even the general state subsidies that were so badly needed have increased by 10 left-wing billions for permanent support. I'll get back to the staff. Nine out of ten of those who work in health care are nurses. They're far too few. The number of people who complete their nursing training annually needs to increase from the current 4 000 to 16 000. This is a very important issue. How should we strengthen the role of nurses and strengthen the professionalisation of nurses? There are no simple jobs in the care and care of older people. Today, however, education and training are somewhat different across the country and need to be targeted in order to clarify the role. This is now being worked on. Specializations may also be needed, as the role of assistant nurse can be very different. National guidelines are needed for the training of nurses. There must be different accommodation options for the elderly. Today it is difficult, especially because of the lack of rental apartments, which are significant in all municipalities, especially in the metropolitan municipalities and in Stockholm. Market-friendly housing policies have hit the elderly hard who need a modern apartment but cannot afford to buy a more adapted apartment. This is also about the pensioners who are the most deprived, most of whom are women – the poor pensioners of our time. The Left Party has therefore contributed to the introduction, in cooperation with the Government, of investment aid for housing specifically aimed at the elderly, in order to stimulate the construction of rental apartments with reasonable conditions. But we need to do much more. It also needs to be investigated how existing homes and those being built can now enable older people to stay, cultivate their interests, have social meeting places and so on. Since the beginning of the 21st century, there has been a redistribution from special housing to home interventions, and the number of people living in special housing has fallen drastically. At the same time, the number of older people in the population has increased. As long as you can stay at home, you should of course do so, but when the day comes when you feel anxious and anxious, feel lonely or are very ill, there should be the opportunity to get another accommodation. Some say that you can then bring a robot or any other digital system into the apartment, but I think most people who come up in their 90s and can't stay at home anymore would best adapt in some kind of retirement home. We find this very worrying. It is also the case that more and more people are being refused their applications for special accommodation. There is today a big difference across the country in terms of guidelines and procedures, even if one might think that there should be a common floor to stand on. There will simply be some kind of living lotto. We want the government to carry out a survey of differences between municipalities in decisions on special housing aid and its causes. There I will lift reservation 6. Today, many older people feel that it is difficult to turn to the municipality for help with simple things in the household. That is why the assessment of aid must be simplified; we have put an 80-year debate on this. There is also a need to develop support for local authorities' work on informing older people about this. It must also be followed up to ensure legal certainty. It should also be borne in mind that the number of older people over the age of 80 who receive public care for the elderly has halved since 1980 – this can be considered. Could it be because they're healthier? Or could it be that care for the elderly is the part of the welfare business that collapsed when we had the 1990s crisis, as you remember? They haven't got their resources back yet. Much of the care is still carried out not by employed staff but by relatives, who take a great responsibility when the public comes back and you feel that it doesn't work anymore. Those who provide family care have usually lost working hours or stopped working completely. There are very many people, according to the statistics 90 000 women and 50 000 men. They receive reduced income from work, which leads to a lower pension. They also see their lives shrink. Some experience the psychological and physical strain, although they want to help and be there. It can also lead to sick leave. It is therefore necessary to develop family support for those who want and can help their loved ones or partners. A society's elderly care will never be developed by tax cuts or by more RUT services. A society's elderly care is developed by a care that reaches everyone. The golden edge of life should not only be given to those who golf in Portugal at an old age but also to those who kick in Åmål. For time winning, I only agree to reservation 6 but naturally support our other reservations.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-418	Madam President, I would like For the Liberals, the goal in politics is that people should live their lives as they wish and have freedom as long as they do not interfere with the freedom of another. This also applies to the elderly. We're supposed to be an obstacle delay here. But this is a large area, and one of the reasons for the problems is ageism — the view of years - rich people. There is conscious and unconscious discrimination on the basis of chronological age in all sectors of society. In all sectors, there are also issues relating to year-long people, not just in the Social Affairs Committee. In the Committee on Social Affairs, we are mainly dealing with the 7% of the year-rich people who are multi-sick or fragile or who have major health problems or problems with housing and other things. From the number of motions to Parliament, this is an area that involves a great many of us. This report deals with 100 requests for exercise, but about 60 are dealt with in a simplified way. They have therefore been dealt with in the past and nothing has happened in the areas in question. That is why they are being set aside until something happens or we enter a new mandate. I think this is a serious signal: that we have a number of issues that we have been involved in, but that so little has happened that they are thus dealt with in a simplified way. I want to highlight reservation 1, which is based on a motion from the Moderates and is about us to produce good examples – describe what you have succeeded in and perhaps also what you have failed with out in municipalities and county councils, to learn from the failures. The report presents comparisons of quality and so on, but it is on a level that you do not benefit from in daily care. It is useful to hear how one might solve a certain problem in Borgholm. I have just come from Värmland, where I made a tour and got excellent examples of those who work out in reality, which I would like to get described. Yesterday I visited the Resource Centre in Karlstad. There you have a health center with four doctors and three nurses. The doctors are employed by the county council and nurses of the municipality. Their job is to make home visits to very fragile years of age. They described that the first visit may take an hour or more than that, but then a relationship has been built that will make coming visits much faster. You can also handle a lot on the phone. Thankfully, this is now being evaluated by Karlstad University, so we will get more detailed information. I would like, as stated in the Moderate Movement, which we in the Liberals support through the reservation, to have more of this. Of course, quality comparisons are great, but out in reality you don't really see what's behind these descriptions. Today, I have experienced another thing that makes it clear how the large group of year-rich people are individuals with different needs. I had to leave a seminar on aging with neurosedyn injuries. It gave fantastic accounts of the problems of aging neurosedyn injured people when it comes to getting car support, home help and other interventions. There are only about a hundred of them, and at Försäkringskassan and all sorts of bodies have no knowledge of what it is like to live a life without arms and legs and perhaps even with heart problems and other things. There are a lot of rejections, even in the right to breast-feed, which naturally creates a very difficult mood. Now they have created an organization where their voice is heard louder. However, what we have to do in this area, whether we are politicians, officials or health workers, is change our minds with the one in question and try to understand what it would be like if we ourselves were to get to work without arms and legs but with a car adapted to our specific needs. We have promised each other in committee to speak only for six minutes. That is why, Madam President, I am going to stop right now!
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-429	Madam President, I would like It is never easy to come after Barbro Westerholm, who has great experience and knowledge, perhaps not least due to a certain annual wealth. I note, Madam President, that very many of my good friends who have come up to my age, as well as myself, have aged parents, whom they care about and want to take care of in the best possible way. Often, however, they do not live nearby, but they have to trust that the accommodation they have or the efforts they have are working satisfactorily. We Christian Democrats are happy to talk about older people and the importance of dignity in care for the elderly. A dignified care and a dignified care is about being able to be the person you are even when you have grown older and maybe get into a special accommodation. Unfortunately, we have to say that there is nothing to choose from in many places in Sweden. There is an accommodation – that 中 s it. You can be there no matter what your needs. When my colleagues have previously talked about accommodation with a special focus or different skills, we can see that there is a huge shortage in Sweden today. There's a shortage of specialist doctors. We know that. But the geriatric skills have really come into disrepute, and there is very little talk about this. Special knowledge of the elderly's diseases and their ageing in different ways and how this affects both physically and mentally is something that needs further attention. Being treated with dignity despite your age – which may be a strange choice of words, but these are the older issues we are talking about – means not least that you can choose the food you want to eat. I may have mentioned this in another context, but I think it is worth mentioning again. My mother, who moved into a retirement home a couple of years ago, turns 87 next week. It's not really that old, but she has her different disabilities. She has poor vision, and after a stroke, her mobility has deteriorated in various ways. An incredibly important thing during the day is the meals and coffee in between. You look forward to sitting at the table and having a good time together. When we get dishes served, or when we go to a restaurant and read a menu, I think we all feel like we want to know what it is. If we do not see or understand what it says, we ask what it means. But in a retirement home you can serve virtually anything to the elderly without even explaining what it is. When it says there's a fluff under the covers, on the menu, I have no idea what it is, and my mother has no idea what it is either. Then when I ask my mother if she knows what she ate, she says, "No, but I think it was some sort of omelet. ..................................................... Then I think: Is this worthy? Age should be a worthy time, where you can keep your interests and enjoy the food you eat, which is perhaps one of the few joys that day. If it is not possible to demand such simple things, what about good leadership among those who work there and that the staff can take their duties so seriously that they feel that they are treating the person they would like to be treated themselves if they were in the same situation? The former senior minister, my party colleague Maria Larsson, worked not least with efforts regarding leadership in the care of the elderly. I have been around Sweden myself and visited various retirement homes where those who have participated in this leadership training have talked about it. I believe that even more is needed in the care of the elderly in order to maintain, or even maintain, a dignified care for the elderly. Nor should we forget to mention family support. Many elderly people depend on relatives before they enter a home or get the right efforts. The fact that we wear them out doesn't give much support to the others once they get help – then even greater efforts are needed. Madam President, I would like I shall, for time winning, demand the approval of reservation 7, which deals with particular accommodation and access to it. We Christian Democrats believe that the municipality should be fined if it cannot provide housing. You should not have to complicate and make complex applications if you feel the need to move to a place where you feel more secure.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-441	Madam President, I would like It is a very important debate that we have in this House today on elderly care. There are few areas where the difference becomes equally clear between the policy of the Center Party and that of the Social Democrats, or between the policy of the Alliance on the one hand and that of the three Left parties on the other. For us, the key words are quality and to let the elderly decide as much as possible for himself. But for the left, there are other things that are more important: removing private companies and ensuring that politicians have maximum power. I would like to give four examples, Madam President. The first is a bill that is now on Parliament's table. It is basically about removing private companies from home care and care for the elderly, even though we know that private entrepreneurs are better off than municipals on 18 out of 22 quality parameters in the National Board of Health and Welfare's measurements. But you do not care about that from the left, Madam President. What is important, instead, is to ensure, for ideological reasons, that private companies are removed. It will have devastating consequences for Swedish elderly care when this home care service disappears and when these retirement homes are forced to close. The second example, Madam President, is about the right to decide for yourself. I, a man over 50 years old, have the right to decide most things for myself. But I want that right even when I get older. When I turn 80 - 85 years of age and perhaps become easily demented, I want to be able to decide, for example, what home service to receive. Today, 200 of the country's 290 municipalities have this right. But in a large number of municipalities, especially the left-wing ones, a principle is made that the elderly should not have the right to decide. In Gävle municipality older people have this right, but in the neighbouring municipality Sandviken says the chairman of the worker municipality that the elderly in the municipality would only be confused if they were to make these decisions themselves. This is also why quality problems arise. Kumla Municipality has won an award, little to be proud of. There, an average of 26 people visit the elderly in two weeks. But in Kumla, indeed, you have made sure that you do not have a single private company. There it is the municipality that runs the entire home service. There is a clear difference in how we in the Alliance reason in relation to the three left parties. The third example relates to the simplified aid assessment. It is really a unique thing that we will now see in Sweden. It's about me being able to get a certain number of hours home help me assigned and that I should have the opportunity to decide for myself, so that Thursday morning when it says shaving and showering on the schedule I will be able to say: But today I hear the birds singing and would rather come out for a walk. This possibility has existed in a number of municipalities for a number of years. As late as 2014, we made sure from the Alliance that there was a government investigation that worked out a virtually complete proposal. It could have applied from 1 January 2015. But what was done on the left side? Well, they stopped the investigation, threw the material in the trash. Hence the impatience, Madam President, of us in the Alliance. We have seen how urgent it is to give this right to the elderly in Sweden, not only in Linköping and a few more municipalities, but throughout the country. This is why we have pressed for a so-called announcement, because this could have been in place in 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018. But this was indeed drawn in the long line because the interest was not so great on the part of the left parties. Now we finally have this proposal on the table, and that is a good thing. But it could have come much earlier. The fourth example, Madam President, which I would also like to highlight is the right, when you are over 85 years old, to actually be able to decide on your own housing. In the situation where you feel that the apartment on the tenth floor is not the most optimal, when you live at home in your own home far out in the country and feel lonely and worried, we have from the Alliance since 2014 driven the demand that you have the right to decide for yourself and say: No, now your own dwelling does not work the best way. Now I have to get another form of housing. But this has been consistently rejected from the left. These, Madam President, are four examples of the clear difference between the Center Party and the Social Democrats or between the Alliance and the three left parties in their view of the elderly and of the elderly. We will continue to fight for quality – tough quality requirements. It doesn't matter if the cat is black or white as long as it catches rats, said Deng Xiaoping. It doesn't matter whether home care is private or public as long as it delivers high quality. We must ensure that the elderly, even if they are 80, 85 or 90 and even if they are becoming a little demented, have the right to make the decisive decisions about their lives. Therein lies the difference, Madam President, between the views of our various parties on care for the elderly. That is why this debate is so important. I would therefore like to support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-458	Madam President, I would like You want to cut 30 billion in taxes, Anders. How can you protect the elderly in this way? That is equivalent to 66 000 nurses and considerably more nurses. We are not against private companies. We're against the extreme payoffs. When there really is an exchange of private initiatives, we can see what it looks like in Stockholm, which for eight years had a bourgeois regime. Then it was like 250 private performers. Then people were so keen to choose private companies, so everyone was called something on A, at least 60 companies. I don't know if this developed old-age care that extreme. As far as accommodation is concerned, we agree. Of course, you should leave home when you can't live at home anymore. But it was during your eight years in the Alliance that the big cuts were made in the number of housing for the elderly. We can see that in the statistics. Why didn't you fight during that period to get your friends on the track to build more? Today is a huge shortcoming. Nor is it the case that market-oriented housing policy has helped along the way. These are some modest little questions for you, Anders.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-462	Madam President, I would like These are three fairly important questions that Karin Rågsjö asks and which also show quite clearly the difference between our parties. The question is how to get more money for the welfare, and that will be the choice very much about. On one side we have parties saying that if we just raise taxes enough, the money flows into the common treasure chest, and if we come up to 60, 70 or perhaps 80 %, we will have all the money we want. We showed, Madam President, during our eight years of government that this connection does not actually exist. We reduced the tax by 140 billion, an enormous amount of money, especially for low- and middle-income earners, who thus had another month's salary to live on. During the same time, we could also significantly increase state grants to municipalities and county councils. Overall, there was an enormous amount of tax money that came in 2014 compared to 2016. In the local government sector, I believe it is 150 to 200 billion. We thus showed that the way to raise more money for Swedish welfare is to get more people into work and to get the Swedish companies to deliver even more. This is how Sweden becomes a richer country, not by raising taxes. The second crucial question is whether the core of care for the elderly should be to hunt down private companies, entrepreneurs, and ensure that they are removed by making totally unreasonable demands on their financial statements. No, for us this is not the important thing. For us, it is absolutely crucial that high quality is delivered. There should be very strong quality requirements for care for the elderly and the other areas. In addition, it is up to the individual to decide. Therein lies the big difference between us.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-467	Madam President, I would like You can ask all welfare workers how they were during the period of your power. An investigation by Stockholm University has looked at the working conditions of elderly care in 2005– 2015. A comparison between Sweden and other Nordic countries shows extreme changes in Sweden. The number of helpers increased per home service employee, the room for manoeuvre decreased, the number of people to run more and felt more psychologically and physically pressured. This measurement was made at about the time you were in power, until 2015. I think this is a response to major tax cuts, because they always affect those who are welfare workers. As far as private alternatives are concerned, we are not opposed to them. We're against extreme winnings. And how do you get a profit in home care? Well, you use the staff as a tool, because there are big differences in pay between those who work in municipal home care and those who work in private home care. That's how you cascad the winnings. I believe that moderating 7% will not mean that companies are fleeing the field. It sounds like all the elderly will sit at home and cry and no home help will come. But the municipality is always there as a guarantor. You're always on the side of business. I don't think that's going to benefit the elderly, Anders. But please look at the investigation! It shows, I think, how to get welfare workers to get on their knees by just lowering the tax in the way you did.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-471	Madam President, I would like It is an interesting thesis that Karin Rågsjö runs, namely that the private companies carry out predatory activities on the employees, that they earn money by almost with the whip in hand ensuring that the staff run faster and do more. But if that were the case, the sickness rates would be considerably higher for the private welfare companies than for municipalities and county councils, but that is not the case. In addition, private welfare companies are much easier to recruit staff than they have in municipalities and county councils. This is the clearest example that private welfare companies have understood that the most valuable thing they have is staff. If you make sure that you have staff with high skills and who are also satisfied with the job and feel that they have a great influence, then the business works better. If you can have higher quality it also gives black numbers in the end. Karin Rågsjö then asked another interesting question about a care home guarantee, that when you have passed 80-85 years of age, you should have the right to choose another accommodation. Our image here is not that it is about these people going into special accommodations, but our image is that there must be other alternatives. I believe that shelters will be what you primarily want in a situation where you are relatively alert but feel isolated and worried in your own accommodation. There is now a proposal at Parliament's table that I welcome, namely that an intermediate form should be found where there is the possibility of having an aid assessment without the same demands for care. This is a crucial issue for us in the Center Party and for us in the Alliance. When you grow old enough, you should – if you experience loneliness, anxiety and anxiety – have the right to choose whether you want to stay in your own home or if you prefer another option.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-475	Madam President, I would like Financial stability is a question that for many people may seem difficult to see through to see what it really means, but it is the basis for the whole of our economy to work, for households to consume and for companies to invest – this for jobs to become more and for welfare to be financed. To this extent, financial stability is a very central issue for the Swedish parliament and for the whole country. There are many worrying signs here, Madam President, that the financial stability or resilience of the financial system may nevertheless fundamentally be threatened by a very poor policy of the current government, even if the banks are strong. There are underlying problems in society and major imbalances that have been built up. There has been a doubling of asset prices in a relatively short time when it comes to housing and the stock market. At the same time, we have seen an interest rate level that has been pushed down to abnormally or unknownly low levels. No one really knows what it means to have negative interest rates in an economy. In books on economics it is usually said that zero is the interest rate floor, the interest rate cannot be lower. Now we have a situation of negative interest rates, while house prices are running out and at the same time the stock world is running out. We do not really know what that means by extension. In this way they play from the overall politics, perhaps not Russian roulette but at least roulette, with stability and security in the Swedish economy. At the same time, it is a high rate of construction in the economy. That is good, because housing is needed, but at the same time it drives up the debt level very high. Sweden's households have record-high debts. For this we are well-deserved to receive a lot of criticism from international judges, and that is what the report is about, among other things. We also build up great uncertainty about how the Swedish economy will function in the long term. This, of course, makes households very sensitive to adjustments both in interest rates and in other types of policy measures. It creates an exposure and insecurity that this government is completely incapable or unwilling to address. Looking forward, you also see very disturbing signs. We know that we have a government that has a way too low savings to meet the imbalances that exist. The Institute of Economics, the Council of Finance Policy, the Board of Financial Control and every authority of experts say that this government is mismanagement of public finances. It is therefore insufficient saving in the economy for Sweden to be resilient when the economy turns downwards. Together with the developments that we have with very high asset prices, with unnaturally low interest rates, high debt, a finance minister who, according to all the expert authorities, seriously mismanage public finances, we are simply in an exposed position. Mrs. Old President! To this we have problems with the municipal economy in the future. The government itself, Konjunkturinstitutet, Sveriges Kommuner and L andsting indicate that revenue does not grow at the same rate as expenditure. This, too, is a problem for financial stability, if our most basic welfare activity is no longer able to finance itself in the way it is intended. Added to this are the underlying major problems of the real economy: high unemployment despite high economic activity and rising equilibrium unemployment. Not a single reform from the government reduces what is called equilibrium unemployment, that is, what improves the conditions for jobs and employment in Sweden in the long term and permanently. This too is a risk to financial stability, or at least the ability to cope with the consequences of financial imbalances and financial instability. In addition, we have a labour market that is increasingly failing with more and more job vacancies, but also with more unemployed especially in weak groups. It is an imbalance which is not addressed by government policy, but which risks creating uncertainty in both the real and the financial economy. We have a school that delivers more and more unevenly. Soon 60 per cent of those born abroad, or who have foreign-born parents, cannot pass English, Swedish or mathematics at school. This too is something that ultimately needs to be addressed in economic policy and leads to imbalances. Lending to Swedish companies has increased by approximately 60 per cent. At the same time, there is no increase in productivity or patent applications. It has thus exposed a lot of indebtedness to Swedish companies that have not been converted into more real assets. What does it mean for unemployment in a downturn? What does it mean for the resilience of Swedish growth and exports when the economic cycle turns downwards, especially in a situation where the government is criticised by every expert authority for not taking the responsibility for public finances that the fiscal framework has – very irresponsible? Mrs. Old President! We have more problems that also expose us to financial instability. For example, we do not have the same contribution to GDP growth from our net exports as Sweden has historically had. John Hassler recently wrote a much-discussed debate article on productivity developments. All in all, we have serious underlying and long-term problems in the Swedish economy, which are at risk of leading to risks and which make it very important to now address financial stability. We have a weak government with no capacity to act. Whether it is due to internal conflicts in the government or simply not wanting to agree because you judge what is politically poor is difficult for an outsider to decide. However, a government that does not implement a single structural reform that, according to some single assessor, makes the Swedish economy more resilient, more competitive and more stable is a problem for stability not only in the financial system but in the whole economy. Mrs. Old President! A light in this is that more resilient banks have been created. Common Equity Tier 1 capital has largely doubled over a 10-year period as a proportion of risk-weighted assets. Swedish banks are about 10 percentage points above the European average. The stress tests carried out on Swedish banks show that the banks' part in the financial system following the reforms carried out by the alliance government is more resilient. Finansinspektionen, Riksgälden, Riksbanken– those who assess and evaluate this – shows that the Swedish banking system after the alliance government reforms is more resilient. But there are no measures within the financial system that have no consequences. That is why I would like to support the Moderate reservation 1. It points out that a good policy in this area must address the negative consequences that also come from financial regulation. The Riksbank has produced a completely new report. It is a longer memo that the employees at the Riksbank write. There they can analyse questions a little more in depth. They have checked the Swedish debt. You can see in it a lot of worrying tendencies that this very passive government does not relate to at all. The report states that the proportion of mortgage lenders in their 30s to 40s, when the housing market should be established, is decreasing. We see the increase in indebtedness among those over 65 years of age. Why is this? How does this relate? With a later entry into the housing market, you will of course retain indebtedness further up the age range. However, older people find it more difficult to influence their income through their own efforts. This can thus contribute to a higher risk in the economy rather than less, as more of the debt is borne by people who have more difficulty influencing their income than those of full working age. This may also indicate a very worrying trend. Parents now fund their children's housing to a greater extent. They do so either by increasing their own borrowing or by going in as guarantors of children's indebtedness. This seriously threatens the idea we have in Sweden, that it should not matter where you come from. That's where you're going to make a difference. In this development we see that it is the opposite. Parents' income and their financial position tend to have a greater impact on young people's ability to establish themselves in working life, adulthood and their own lives. This should not be the case in Sweden. The Moderates and the Allied Alliance have been sceptical about moving forward with further regulation. What will it really be like in a society where we tax labour income by 60 – 65 percent tax while we tax capital income by perhaps 20, 22 or 25 percent tax? Then we make it impossible for people who are not born with money to get over money and capital. In this way, we run the risk of pushing forward gaps and differences in a way that is not good in the long term. This, of course, needs to be addressed with the reforms that we are proposing. We must protect competition, which we also mention. However, I would argue that this should not be approved for time. This report contains a text in which the IMF expresses very sharp criticism of Sweden on a number of points. This is especially true of how our housing market works. Mrs. Old President! I would like to say that the government's response to this is almost resounding. It simply chooses not to take the IMF's criticism seriously but to say that our housing market does not have such problems. This is being done despite the fact that now every single international judge, such as the OECD, the IMF and the European Commission, points out that we have serious problems. We have a lack of reform that leads to a hopelessness that leads to a homelessness. However, the government does not want to be aware of this, either because of the very difficult internal conflicts that exist in the government or because the Social Democracy, as many people assume, is completely in the hands of the Tenants' Association and is completely paralysed in the face of the major challenges and problems that exist in the Swedish housing market. It is preferable to buy the votes of the established people – those who currently have housing – rather than to get into trouble. If solved, Sweden would be more productive and successful in the future. The inaction shown by the government again risks bringing Sweden into very difficult problems and major challenges. It's happened before. I would like to end by warning the government not to remain as passive and reformless as it is in this area. In the past, Sweden has suffered much from a passive and reformless social democracy that does not dare to tackle the problems of lending that exist in the financial system, around financial resilience and about financial imbalances. It ended with half a million people losing their job in a single year in the early 1990s. One time, I dare say, the Social Democracy has been very self-critical of the fact that it did not deal with problems in the financial system. I'm holding up an article from Aftonbladet. It says: S assumes responsibility for the 1990s crisis. – – The Social Democrats are praying. In a document published next week, the Ministry of Finance writes that the economic crisis of the 1990s was the fault of the then S-government – not of the bourgeois. Former Minister of Finance Kjell-Kjell-Olof Feldt welcomes the report. "It is long awaited even if it would have been good if the analysis had come ten years earlier," he says to Aftonbladet's online edition. ..................................................... I call on this government to be proactive rather than hindsight. One must stop being completely passive in terms of reforms in, for example, residential areas, as the IMF also calls for in the letter.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-508	Mrs. Old President! Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Finance, Financial Stability and Financial Market Affairs. I shall refer to two Swedish democratic motions which affect this area in different ways. I'll start with exercise 547 Retirement pension contributions. Free competition is a prerequisite for an efficient market. If there are obstacles or restrictions to competition, whatever they may be, the risk is that the market will not function properly, and the cost will then be passed on to the consumer in the form of higher prices. That is exactly what has happened in the pension insurance market. It has been reported in the media that most life insurance companies have chosen to shock-raise the removal fees of certain pension insurance policies in order to lock in dissatisfied customers who would otherwise have moved their pension capital to other, more advantageous alternatives. There are currently no restrictions on how high the transfer fees pension companies can charge, and this possibility has, of course, been capitalised – at the expense of customers. The Competition Authority has analysed this very point in the report "Movement fees in the life insurance market", and their conclusions point in the same direction. The company notes that the removal fees involve a cost to the customer who wants to change insurance and move his pension capital to a competing company. Furthermore, the transfer fees for pension insurance have been increased by several life insurance companies in recent years in order to actively discourage customers from moving. To address the problems, the report proposes a number of changes to the Insurance Business Act and the Insurance Contracts Act. Among other things, it is proposed that the removal fee should cover the most necessary administrative costs, neither more nor less. It also proposes a time limit for how long after a new signature it should be possible to charge removal fees. In other words, the problem picture is clear, and it is unison. The only thing missing is political action to overcome this anomaly in the insurance market. As I understand it, work on this issue has been initiated, and there is work in progress at the Government Office to facilitate the transfer of pension savings. In a written reply, Minister Bolund has also promised regulatory changes in this area before the end of his term of office. I am therefore eagerly waiting for Parliament to receive the proposal in the near future. Mrs. Old President! Exercise 3671 addresses the housing problem in sparsely populated areas. In large parts of sparsely populated areas, it is difficult, sometimes impossible, to borrow to your home on the regular mortgage market. It can be difficult even if the applicant has a fixed income, is without payment notes and otherwise would more than be able to meet his commitments to the bank or the mortgage institution. The reasons may, of course, vary, but risks to the lender combined with poor profitability of small mortgages are often mentioned. Moreover, if there are few or no local bank accounts in the area, it makes it even more difficult, as no one really knows the local market with normally relatively few items. The difficulty of obtaining mortgages in rural areas has a number of negative consequences. One problem is that people with otherwise healthy economies are referred to expensive short-term loans with excessive loan costs as a result. But it also has negative effects on the entire local housing market. The items that come out for sale receive fewer interested speculators than they would otherwise have had, which in itself gives a lower selling price. Lower selling prices lower the value of surrounding properties, reducing residents' willingness to invest in maintenance, renovation and extensions. New constructions are very rare in these areas. The Swedish Democrats see a solution to the problem. The State owns a mortgage institution, SBAB, which has been imposed by the Government on a yield requirement similar to that of the rest of the market and which is largely similar to that of the private competitors. The purpose of the State's ownership of a mortgage institution is questionable from this point of view. Instead, the government should ensure that SBAB offers mortgages to individuals throughout Sweden through its control of SBAB. Any additional administrative and risk costs may be calculated and charged by the mortgage institution through, among other things, setup fees and interest rates. The government should review the yield requirement for SBAB in order to stimulate a functioning housing market also in sparsely populated areas. Of course, SBAB otherwise will do a regular credit rating and waive when the person is not considered creditworthy. I call for reservations 8 and 12.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-521	Mrs. Old President! Speaking of the first speaker's speech on the IMF and the housing market in Sweden, I might take the opportunity to say that the IMF also wants to see increased investment aid for new construction of rental rights. However, this is something that the Moderates have strongly rejected. Obviously, it is possible to refer to the IMF from time to time, but not from time to time. In addition, I myself sat in that negotiating room on housing issues, and I can well say that the will to get along with the Moderates and the other bourgeois parties was not very great. If you couldn't raise people's rents, you weren't interested in getting along either. It may be worth recalling that after Niklas Wykman's speech. Mrs. Old President! One might think that one should have the right to decide over one's own money, and I think the vast majority of people agree with that. The strange thing is that the banks have taken that opportunity away from us. Today, three of the four major banks together have only 25 bank accounts in the whole country where cash is handled. Add to that that we are also at the bottom of the league in Europe when it comes to access to ATMs. It is quite obvious that one can easily see what problems it causes in society. Of course, it is good that cash handling is reduced. This leads to a lower risk of robbery and a reduction in the transport of banknotes and coins. But it is also the case that the number of card frauds is very large. In any case, we suspect it, but we do not really know, because the banks are not forced to account for the number of card frauds. Furthermore, many small businesses face problems with the reduction in cash handling. Many small businesses in rural areas are witnessing problems in getting rid of their day-to-day money. I myself have met entrepreneurs who testify that they are allowed to spend several days on the day's cash register because it is so expensive to get rid of it. But it is also very expensive to get change. I've met entrepreneurs who have had to travel over 100 miles to get rid of the day's cashier. You can imagine what it's like to work the whole long day, maybe 12 to 14 hours a day, and then get in the car and darn away 50 miles back and 50 miles home just to get rid of the money you earned. In addition, the pensioners' organisations, many of whom we are probably in this House who have been courted by, testify to the problems their members have when they cannot use cash. Pensioners' associations have problems getting rid of the bingo fund when they have bingo at the retirement home. They have to go very far to deposit the money in a bank. Old people sit on the bus or in the car with the bingo cash or the proceeds from the lottery. I've met sports clubs that testify to problems when they've been selling bingo tickets outside the store. It is very expensive to deposit your own money in the bank or get access to it once you withdraw it. But I have also met people who, for reasons of privacy, actually do not want to use cards, because they do not want their purchases to be registered and able to be used for other purposes, such as advertising or other forms of influence. After all, it's our own money. Once you have deposited your money in the bank, you should also be allowed to decide whether you can withdraw it yourself as cash. The Left Party has been pushing the issue of access to cash for many years now. I think it's about seven years. There are a great many people who have witnessed during these years the problems that the reduced cash management has led to. We tried to influence the bourgeois government during their time, but it was very difficult. Finally, the County Administrative Board of Dalarna was commissioned to produce an annual report in which they would describe what had happened during the year with access to cash management in the countryside. A little money was also set aside for the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency to be able to support rural traders. This government has increased that pot, because the Left Party pushed it through in the budget negotiations, and that is a good thing. But we all know that there is no solution to the problem. The cash management of banks must be regulated. I guess that's where the core lies. You don't dare take the fight with the banks. However, we in the Left Party believe that there is a need for a change of law, which obliges banks to maintain cash management. Mrs. Old President! In rural areas, the supply of capital may be problematic, not least for small businesses. There, the local savings banks play a very important role. Their knowledge of the local community enables them to make different positions than the major commercial banks. The task of the savings banks is, of course, to benefit the local community in which they operate and not above all to pay dividends to their owners, as is the case with the four major banks. Therefore, more local projects and more local companies should have had good access to capital where the local savings banks are located. But we also believe that it is totally unreasonable for local banks to compete on the same terms with the big giants. Today they have the same regulatory burden as the large commercial banks. This should be reviewed. We also believe that small banks should be better able to broaden their own funds. Therefore, government credit guarantees should be provided for, for example, the start-up of new local banks. The Left Party therefore proposes to set up a bank structure inquiry to strengthen bank competition and to increase the presence of smaller banks in rural areas in various ways. State SBAB has started to liquidate its lending in large parts of the country on the grounds that they prefer to be in the big cities. We believe that a state bank should be able to take responsibility for the whole country. Otherwise, the talk that we must hold the whole country together and provide good conditions for living and living in the whole country becomes quite hollow on the part of the state. Finally, I would like to address the issue of aggressive tax planning and tax evasion. We believe that banks that regularly contribute to aggressive tax schemes should have their permits withdrawn. Unfortunately, we seem to be the only party that thinks that banks acting in this way should not continue to have the confidence to maintain banking activity. But aggressive tax planning is a crime committed against all of us. There will be less money going to children's cancer treatment, and someone's grandmother's home service will be limited. It reduces the capacity for development throughout society. Tax planning, tax evasion and evasion are a crime that affects all of us. That is why we on the part of society and the state must act very forcefully when this happens; the state of banks should be withdrawn when they act in this way. I request the approval of reservation 10.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-533	Mrs. Old President! Safeguarding financial stability is a key task of the political system. Stable public finances and financial stability are crucial for jobs, security and well-being. We Social Democrats therefore take these tasks very seriously and with great vigour. During this term of office, we have once again turned large inherited deficits in public finances into robust surpluses. We have started to strengthen the financial system and have taken measures that can contribute to a more balanced development of the housing market. Basically, these issues are about people's ability to rely long-term and lasting trust that welfare is there and that there is a job to go to. If there is anything we know, it is that when there is no order in the economy and when financial stability is turned into its opposite, instability, then it is job, welfare and security for people who are affected. We also know that the work on securing financial stability is not over. However, we have a high level of preparedness, several new tools and powerful economic muscles – with a very low public debt as a good example – which means that we have the resources to do more when or if necessary. It's taking responsibility for the future. Mrs. Old President! As I have made clear, the consequences of financial crises are often very serious. In Sweden, perhaps the main vulnerability of the financial system is that we have a large, concentrated banking sector that operates in a small currency area and has a large share of market funding. When it links the development of household indebtedness, it is clear that this is an area that requires our attention. For a very long time, we have seen house prices and household indebtedness rising at a high rate, a trend that means that macro-economic risks can be built up and that there are risks that it will eventually be harmful to Sweden. When years have been added without progress being slowed down, the need to deal with the situation has become more evident. Efforts for increased housing construction and higher demands on banks are two important structural efforts, but we have also seen a clear need to stand up for a robust amortisation culture. Almost two years ago, Finansinspektionen therefore introduced the first amortisation requirement, and now in March it was further strengthened. The basic principle of repayment of debts should be upheld by the regulatory framework under which the financial sector is governed. Similarly, it is reasonable for the authorities to be able to require that loans with a high debt ratio be repaid more quickly than loans with a low debt ratio. The measures taken have broad support, as the report shows, for example, by the Riksbank and the IMF. Mrs. Old President! During this term of office, attention has also been paid to how the financial system has been used to round up the laws and regulations that apply in Sweden. It is about money that has been laundered to conceal criminal activities or the financing of terrorism. It is also about money being shoveled around between companies and in groups in order not to be taxed. That must not be the case, and that is not the way it should be. Critical activities and terrorism shall be combated. Income earned in Sweden shall be taxed in Sweden. It is essential for our country to stick together. The government has taken measures to counteract such exploitation of the financial system. We have tabled a new law to prevent the financing of terrorism. We have strengthened the rules on access to money laundering, and we have a comprehensive programme and work on the ground to prevent tax evasion. Together with other countries both within the EU and in the OECD, work continues to strengthen welfare tax bases and prevent leakage, fraud and crime. Mrs. Old President! We know that it is not enough to appeal to people's tax standards. There must also be robust tools and regulations in place. A well-functioning financial system is, of course, not only important at some kind of social level. In addition, almost all citizens and small businesses are consumers of financial services, and therefore also in their everyday lives depend on it working well from a consumer's perspective. However, the market for financial services and advice is characterised by information asymmetry. A party namely the bank, the insurance company, a seller or intermediary usually knows much more about the service than the one to buy it and may have completely different motives than the consumer benefit. In order to prevent the negative effects it may have, the Government has given priority to strengthening the position of consumers on the market. Among other things, rules for investment advice and information have been tightened up. It is clear that consumer protection is central to safeguarding competition and financial stability. The initiatives taken by the government but also the authorities and the European Union have been very welcome. Mrs. Old President! The issue of cash has been mentioned earlier in the debate. Over the past few years, we have seen how digitalisation has progressed faster and faster, not least when it comes to payment services. The banking and financial sector have in many ways taken the lead in the digital race, but they also leave many people behind. From the motions received, there are many of us in this Assembly, in the Swedish Parliament, who are concerned that more and more people are finding it difficult to manage their personal finances when the analogue alternatives, as they are almost described today, are disappearing in different ways. The Government has ensured that the issue of cash handling does not end up between the chairs through the Riksbank Committee, where several members of the Finance Committee contribute with work. We are tasked with investigating the matter. The work of the Committee is now ongoing. I am convinced that we will be able to find good solutions that will ensure that the cash remains and remains available in the future. In conclusion, I would like to say that during the past parliamentary term, the Socialist-led government has taken on key issues of financial stability. In addition to turning large government deficits into substantial surpluses and very low public debt, we have taken measures in the area of macro-stability and household indebtedness and, not least, housing construction. We have more and better tools to prevent the financial system from being exploited by criminals and terrorists. Consumer protection in the financial services market has been strengthened. Investigations have been set up to take a holistic approach to many major and important issues such as the EU Banking Union and the cash issue just mentioned. I therefore call for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-550	Mrs. Old President! It is of course very good that Fredrik Olovsson and the whole Social Democracy have taken the blame for the 90s crisis in a clear and consistent way: how it came about, how it affected Sweden and how the policy they pursued in the 70s and 80s led to half a million people losing their job. The fact that the Social Democracy has so clearly and carefully explained exactly how to blame for this is, of course, important in order not to relapse into the same kind of problem again. For that, Fredrik Olovsson and the whole Social Democracy deserve praise. Mistakes can be made, and they will not be repeated. Mrs. Old President! It is precisely on the subject of repeating mistakes that I, many with me and Swedish society are concerned. We see now that we have a boom. Despite the boom, we have high unemployment, and despite the boom, we have low resilience in the Swedish economy. The government saves about one third of what virtually all expert authorities estimate would be in line with the fiscal framework. It is a grave mismanagement of Swedish public finances in this situation. This brings me to my question to you, Fredrik Olovsson. How do you really view the government's very elegant response to the IMF when it raises what is perhaps the main problem of the Swedish economy, namely the housing market? There, the IMF describes very thoroughly and carefully the problems that exist and how it leads to increased risks, increased instability and increased imbalances in the economy. The IMF clearly indicates that the rental market is not working. I can imagine that Fredrik Olovsson, as chairman of the Committee on Finance, can have a somewhat independent role vis-à-vis the government and perhaps give a picture of why the government is so passive towards this very serious criticism.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-554	Mrs. Old President! The description that Niklas Wykman made in the speaker's chair before and now is extremely ludicrous. It should be set against the background that the Social Democrats in government have, on no less than three occasions, been able to sort out difficult economic problems after Niklas Wykman and his party colleagues. Last time Wykman himself was employed in the Ministry of Finance when the deficit was left in the order of SEK 60 billion, which we have now turned into surplus in about the same war. We have reduced public debt by 10 percentage points. We are back to the level that the national debt had in relation to the bnp that prevailed before the Swedish people began experimenting with moderate and bourgeois governments. It's a very good rating for us and a pretty bad one for Niklas Wykman. In addition, during this time we have pushed back unemployment, invested in welfare, speeded up housing construction and coped with the most severe migration crisis the world has seen in decades. It has largely concerned Swedish society, which has had to take care of it. We have done so with this strength. This describes Niklas Wykman, who left over high unemployment and large deficits in public finances, as something that would be problematic for the government that I mostly vote as. When it comes to the housing market, it can be said that the major problem has been a low level of construction. In the years when we had a bourgeois government, the construction was much lower than it had had to be in relation to the population increase that we had at the same time. Now we have turned this around; we have a powerful building. In addition, we are encouraging construction in the sense that it is aimed at those groups that need housing most. That's exactly the part of politics Niklas Wykman wants to remove. It's very strange.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-559	Mrs. Old President! I would just like to once again commend Fredrik Olovsson and the whole of the Social Democracy for the fact that the whole responsibility for the 1990s crisis and for the half million jobs lost due to the mismanagement of politics has been taken on in such a clear way. Fredrik Olovsson and the Social Democrats have taken this so much to heart that they have written a full report on it at the Ministry of Finance. The report has been published, and it is very clear about the major damage caused to Sweden. Mrs. Old President! It is, however, now that a little time has passed, unclear how the Social Democracy relates to the lessons learned when taking on the whole blame for the 1990s crisis. We are now booming, and we still have high unemployment. According to all the evaluators, we do not have a single reform that lowers equilibrium unemployment and increases productivity. I note, Fredrik Olovsson, that the answer to the question of why the government in no way responds to IMF criticism in the residential area is missing. No reforms come from the government which can be assumed to improve the sustainable supply of housing and the stability of the housing market. The government does not want to answer this because they do not want to do anything about the problem, many may believe. Fredrik Olovsson removes no doubt in this area. Another question, which Fredrik Olovsson might consider at least trying to answer, concerns injustice. We are now closing, as the Riksbank shows, through credit restrictions out there large groups from being able to establish themselves on the housing market. This happens at the same time as the tax on working is increased to up to approximately 63%. This gives those born with money enormous privileges compared to those who have to work for it. Many could say that is unjust or at least problematic in terms of cohesion. How does Fredrik Olovsson generally see that you now tend to move to a policy where it seems to play a greater role where you come from than where you are going and where debt is postponed higher in the ages?
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-564	Mrs. Old President! The best way for people to enter the labour market is for them to get a job. The fact that young people, to a greater extent than in the past, have a job to attend today is the first prerequisite. The second condition is that there is housing. And for there to be enough housing, housing must be built. The policy of Niklas Wykman means cutting down on, and even removing, investment aid for housing in particular. There will then be fewer housing, especially fewer rental apartments, for those groups that would need it most, namely those who are just entering the labour market. Moreover, when large parts of the common good have been sold out, perhaps especially in this region, where the housing shortage is also at its most difficult, the problem is still increasing. It is good if, in a future debate, Niklas Wykman can assume responsibility for housing policy being that way, and that the housing shortage is that way. Niklas Wykman claims that there is no effort to reduce equilibrium unemployment. That's not true. The budget for this year contains a number of measures that are just pushing back equilibrium unemployment. These are extra services, the knowledge boost and other subsidised jobs aimed at precisely those groups that are most difficult to get into the labour market but are now entering. It has such effects. Niklas Wykman knows about it, but he chooses to describe it in a completely different way. For me, it is really important that the gaps in society are reduced. I see big gaps as a problem. I also see that they have been increasing for a long time. One of the main reasons is that people have not had a job. Of course, we are doing everything we can to increase people's numbers, and unemployment is falling and employment is increasing. Another important measure, of course, is to make sure from the outset that we invest in school. Therefore, we choose large investments in Swedish education and school before reduced taxes for those who already have the best.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-569	Mrs. Old President! Last week, Nordea held the Annual General Meeting, and a butcher from Dalarna appeared in the pulpit. I would not have used the same word choice as he did, but the focus – a strong criticism of the banks' lack of social responsibility – I agree. Mrs. Old President! There is a profound symbolism in the fact that it was a butcher who voiced criticism when you see the slaughter in bank accounts, ATMs and cash facilities. Only in the last four years have 400 cash machines closed. Today we have only 1,600 left in the whole country. The privatisation of credit, the transfer to the market from 2004, the four major banks and Danske Bank have not led to any happiness. I have, together with Erik Ezelius, exercised that the banks must take responsibility. There are several of us who have exercised in the same direction, and the background is that we meet with many associations, sports associations and pensioners' associations, who cannot deposit money from their lotteries or coffee stalls. We know that rural areas face problems in managing the economy. We also hear from many older people who feel insecure not only about the network – this new one that you might not get used to – but also about handling a prepaid card. Most recently, the Swedish Defence Committee has carried out a comprehensive analysis of cash management and talks about the danger that could arise to the financial system if we do not have cash. We are advised to have light, flashlight and a small food supply at home. But what if the electricity goes out and you don't have cash to buy milk, bread and whatever you need? I assume that the Riksbank investigation and Fredrik Olovsson's clear declaration will address this issue in a favourable way. We see that the market in this area, as in others, is not capable of taking social responsibility but merely counts profits. Today we see in Svenska Dagbladet that a large majority, 68 percent, want cash handling to work. I will when I drive to Skåne next time to stop at the condom in Bjärnum, which has the beautiful sign And I'm going to enjoy that bun, Mrs. Old President.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-575	Mrs. Old President! The death of Fadime and Pela was an awakening to a oppression that was then something that we in Sweden had little or no knowledge of at all. The honour-related violence, which penalises women who do not submit to certain rules, is one of the most extreme forms of female oppression. In recent years, honour-related violence has been highlighted in the media and in the daily debate, but we must not close our eyes to the fact that women in Sweden today are being subjected to this abominable abuse. I'll tell you a little bit about what's included in the concept of honor violence. Three areas are usually highlighted: arranged marriages, genital mutilation and violence and harassment. With regard to arranged marriages, it may in some cases be a case of minor girls being married away without either consent or the possibility of preventing marriage. There is nothing extenuating and definitely nothing honorable in honor-related violence. It is a oppression that is also being discussed in other countries. We Christian Democrats have long wanted to criminalise child and forced marriages. I also want to highlight the importance of increased knowledge. As the summer holiday approaches in a few months' time, many schools do not have sufficient knowledge or resources. That is something that we politicians must take seriously. Schools play a key role in preventing this violence. There are still social services offices as well as schools that see this as a family problem that is best solved by gathering the family and discussing it. Then the problem has definitely not been understood. Something that I would like to raise here today, which we unfortunately also see, is that there is a lack of knowledge among many authorities. I can only hope that the current investigation will serve as a basis both for new legislation for better coordination between authorities, which is often inadequate, and for us to put these young women at the centre of our attention and give them the support they need. It should nevertheless be said after this introduction that we have been naive in Sweden. This also includes the policy on the issue of honour. To this day, some politicians are ducking or putting their heads in the sand when it comes to these issues. We're going to do exactly the opposite. That is why I am very pleased today that we have two clear announcements from Parliament. I intend to read them out so that it becomes clear what contributions we here from the Swedish Parliament make to our government. The government should return to the Riksdag with a bill that means that a marriage that has been concluded under foreign law should never be recognised in Sweden if any of the parties were under the age of 18 when any of them came to Sweden. The second announcement is that the government should examine a review of the legislation as soon as possible in order to ensure that foreign polygamous marriages are not recognised in Sweden. Holland has gone ahead. They have shown that it is possible to mark against child marriage, and I hope that the Swedish Parliament will do so in the future.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-587	Mrs. Old President! I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 1 and 4. Otherwise, we support the proposal in the report. Of course, when it comes to child marriage, it is incredibly important to counteract that phenomenon. Children should be allowed to be children and not be subjected to marriages that are something for adults. What makes us still have a reservation here is that there has been a partial report in the investigation dealing with child marriage. The proposal is to severely limit, further, the possibility of child marriage. The only thing flagged could be a small valve is our international commitments, such as the right of EU citizens to free movement. There may be different marriage rules in different EU countries. But this is an investigation proposal. The government has not taken a stand, but we will see what the consultation bodies say. The period of referral expired on 8 March, and the Government may carefully consider proposals from the investigation but also the views of the referral bodies. Then we'll get back to you. We do not want to anticipate this work, but we want to see very clearly that, as far as absolutely possible, we limit the possibility of child marriage, because we are against it. The next reservation we have concerns polygamous marriages, also called polygamy. Here, too, we want to make it clear that we are against polygamy. The basis should be that marriage is between two people. It can be seen that where polygamy is applied, it often involves problems from the point of view of equality. This has so far been the case for men who are married to several women, and it has become a problem for women who have been in a weaker position in those societies. On this issue, we have started by asking the Swedish Tax Agency what the background is to the fact that about 300 people are registered as polygamy in Sweden. It turns out that some of these cases can probably be counted out as mistakes. It has been about women who have been registered as married to several men, and there is no country in the world, as I know, that allows this. It is believed that the man has died and that this has not been registered or that the woman has divorced the man and that this has not been recognised or registered either. After the woman has remarried, it looks like she has several men on paper. There are also men who are registered as having several wives. There are demonstrably cases where the husband is actually married to several women. It is a problem, because it runs counter to the fundamentals of our Swedish society. We'd like to come back to you about an investigation into this. In the same way that we have set up an investigation to stop child marriage, this issue also needs to be investigated in order for us to really achieve the goal and do it the right way. Heléne has been very clear that she is against polygamous marriage, not least from the point of view of equality, and that the government will set up an investigation. The government may come back to the details and timing of this investigation, but it is a matter of priority for the government. In view of this ongoing work, we do not think there is a need for an announcement, but the government is already on track on this issue. On other issues, a great deal of work is under way. I can mention a few things. When it comes to forced marriages, about which there are both reservations and motions, it is investigated. The investigation must be completed by 1 September 2018. It is the same there, that we do not want forced marriage regardless of whether it is related to Sweden or has been concluded in any other country. But we'll have to wait and see what the investigation finds out. We do not want to anticipate that work. When it comes to the fatherhood of unmarried people – there are many cohabiting couples who have children – it is a problem that the father is registered only after the child's birth. There have even been examples where the mother ended up in a coma and the child stood without her father and without parental contact. So this is a big problem for the child. Today there is a small safety valve if the mother requests it: to start an investigation before the child's birth through the Social Welfare Board. But it should not be an exception for this to happen, but it should be the general rule. A special investigator is working on this on the basis of an announcement from the Riksdag that we should have that order, and we do not want to anticipate that work. The investigation must be completed by 31 August 2018. With regard to parenthood in assisted conception, there has now been a legislative referral suggesting that it will be easier for all parents in both same-sex and different sex couples to be recognised as parents of children born after insemination in hospitals in other countries. When it comes to guardians, good men and trustees, the government works intensively on this and returns with proposals. Even when it comes to the registration of wills, the government will return. With regard to electronic documents in the context of family law, we have a special investigator working on this. That investigation must also be completed by 31 August 2018. In the light of the work under way, I would just like to express my support for the two reservations I mentioned at the outset.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-607	Mrs. Old President! A few years ago I was at the Fotografiska museum, which showed the exhibition Too Young to Wed. I still remember it because it was incredibly strong. You were touched. I'm really saddened by the way things look. Then I don't mean just in Sweden, where it might be about girls of high school age. This is about children far down to the age of ten. It is truly despicable, and I would really like Sweden to be a pioneer country. We have to make a different mark against this. I would like to highlight the Netherlands, which I think the investigation unfortunately does not highlight enough. It is also an EU country, and there they have been incredibly clear that this does not have to limit the right of European citizens to free movement at all. Here's something quite different we're talking about, and then I don't think we should have any valve at all. I would like to raise the issue with Hillevi Larsson. She was clearer than the government has been here before, which is a good thing. I feel like things are moving forward. Nevertheless, I would like to highlight the very great work that has been done on the Convention on the Rights of the Child and that it should become Swedish law. Why not take the child perspective seriously now? Why not take a chance to mark here?
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-611	Mrs. Old President! It is gratifying that the Convention on the Rights of the Child is finally becoming a law. It is needed to clarify the child perspective. Otherwise, there is a risk that it will be obscured in many areas. When it comes to child marriage, no one would be happier than me if we said we were to ban it straight off-- there shouldn't be a single case of child marriage. At the same time, respect must be shown for the investigation that has been set up and the government must look at the proposals. This applies to the proposals of the investigation, but also to the proposals of the consultation bodies, and it is very possible that the consultation bodies have negative views on the investigation or perhaps alternative solutions to the problems that may arise. Regardless of how worthy the question is, it feels that setting up an investigation should also take the matter seriously and not anticipate the investigation's proposals. The government will have to come back as soon as possible on this issue. It is a priority for the government, so I am convinced that it will come back. Over the years we have often experienced that there has been a big step forward but then discovered that there is still too large a valve left. I remember when foreign citizens could bring someone from another country to marry, someone as young as 15 years old. It was considered natural then. I reacted strongly to that. Thankfully, we got rid of this degenerity. I still feel like we're taking big steps in the right direction. I am convinced that we will do so this time too.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-617	Mrs. Old President! I can only hope that the clear announcement now made by the Committee on Civil Liberties will be included in the forthcoming preparatory work of the government and that it is genuinely sensitive to this. There has already been a partial report, in which the investigation does not propose what we want. I believe, as I said, that the positions we have must be much clearer from a political point of view as well. If we are to talk about clarity, I would like to say that, in the case of polygamous marriages, we called the minister to the committee. We also called a number of authorities, and I have rarely heard officials being as clear as they were in that presentation. They themselves say that they do not have the tools they need. They say that today's legislation is inadequate. The IRS, the authority in charge of this, is a mere registration authority. Many questions have been asked about how to do this, but you only register someone else's decision. That is why I think it is important that this investigation be set up as soon as possible. For me as legislator, it is natural. It's not a simple question. I myself am a lawyer and have looked at international law quite a lot. It's not a simple question. That is why I think the most important thing is to set up an investigation that should look at the issue and not prepare it right now, before you even have an investigation to prepare. I very much hope that this announcement will also be taken very seriously and that the government will get back to us as soon as possible. As I said earlier, it is an important mark, and I would like the government to be clearer about sharing that view.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-622	Mrs. Old President! After all, we have a feminist government, and we can see that both child marriage and polygamous marriages hit girls particularly hard. Of course, there are also boys, that is, children, who are married. Although boys are not married to several women, children's marriages occur among boys. However, we can see that it is more common among girls. It is more common for the boy to be older or adult and for the girl to be younger. Besides, the girl runs the risk of getting pregnant very early. The boy risks becoming a father, but it's going to be an even bigger process for a young girl who's about to have a baby. It is about her independence, her schooling, her ability to work and her ability to be a child. It is therefore a big problem, but even if we cannot regulate how other countries do – that is, when it comes to those who are already married when they come here – we can ensure that Swedish law prevails on Swedish soil. We shall see the child perspective but also the gender perspective, and this applies to both child marriage and polygamy. When it comes to child marriage, I assume that the government will come back quickly on this issue. We'll be in the middle of it, too. I understand that the issue is a priority for Heléne Fritzon. As far as polygamous marriage is concerned, I think it is only a matter of time before we hear about the investigation to be set up, about the timing and forms of it. This issue is also an incredible priority. There are also cases where several girls have been married to a man. So it is both child marriage and polygamous marriage at once. In connection with the entry into force of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, these issues are becoming even more important.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-628	Mrs. Old President! Today we are debating the report CU8 Family law. I welcome this because these issues affect the lives of many people in a way that few other political issues do. Working family laws are important to our society, especially as we know how fragile life is and how fast it can change. The number of people affected by family law in individual cases entails a special need for rules that are in line with time. Of course, like everyone else, I feel that there is room for improvement and other wording in our proposals. In addition, I would like to mention that I personally think that those of us who are involved in various policy areas sometimes miss out on the children's perspective. Not infrequently, the process, policy and paragraphs are given priority over what is best for the child concerned. Mrs. Old President! The CU8 report covers 140 motion requests, 30 reservations and 2 announcements. This confirms my earlier observation that the substantive policy issues of the Committee on Civil Liberties are a matter of real concern and concern. That is why I intend to limit my speech to areas involving polygamy and transferors, Madam President-in-Office of the Council. A central part of every democracy is freedom of choice. Few things upset me more than life decisions made under threat, coercion, or deceptive forms. It is currently prohibited to be married to more people than one, both according to the Criminal Code and the Marriage Code, but it is nevertheless possible to register polygamy with the Swedish Tax Agency. There are 307 people who are registered in Sweden and registered in polygamy relations. These families also include 800 children. In addition to this, there are about 500 registrations of polygamy that are not considered genuine – all according to the Swedish Tax Agency. Acceptance of polygamy risks leading to an intransparent and radical change in marriage as an institution. Multiple marriages are prohibited for several reasons, not least gender equality policy. In particular, there is a risk that very strong anti-women forces will benefit from unequal relations that gain legitimacy and increase their spread. It also means that wives in polygamous marriages dare not protest or say anything because they are afraid of shame and of being shut out of their families and society. Our starting point is that women should not risk more or less being forced into a marriage with several other wives. And how are the 800 children who, according to the Tax Agency, are included in these polygamous marriages affected? What view will they have on the future? It is also about custody responsibility, maintenance obligations and succession rights. In addition to being clear about our modern and equal values, legislation needs to be clear and reasonable. It is high time that Sweden also gave the invisible women and children affected by various forms of oppression of honour the right to decide over their own lives. Sweden has a government that prides itself on being feminist. Then you should be clear about what you want when it comes to issues relating to polygamy and children in forced marriages. The government has still not begun any investigation into how to stop polygamous marriages, despite the fact that there is an announcement and that various authorities want clearer rules. Mrs. Old President! The Swedish welfare society must work for everyone. Children or people who are sick or disabled must be able to obtain the necessary protection and support. Questions about good men and stewards are basically about the protection of the weakest in society. The state and municipalities have the ultimate responsibility when taking over and managing the individual's economy. The transferee activities are part of the most basic legal protection that the state and municipalities provide for the vulnerable in society. Good men and stewards therefore play an important role as deputies for the individual. It is positive that so many people make amazing contributions as good men, often with non-profits, and thus contribute to increased security for many people who need support. There will be a major challenge in the future. Today, the good men are managing an estimated 35 billion, and the number of assignments is constantly increasing. Unfortunately, there are serious shortcomings in the system and they need to be addressed because they cause harm to individuals. There are both quality deficiencies and abuse. The Alliance has long called for measures to improve the transfer guardian business, and there is also an announcement from 2017. Nevertheless, the government has not acted. On 14 December 2017, the Swedish National Audit Office presented an audit report on the supervision of deputies and transferees. The overall conclusion of the review is that the State needs to take a much clearer responsibility, and this is largely in line with the Alliance's previous proposals. I look forward to the government now following Parliament's decisions and remedying the shortcomings that the Swedish National Audit Office has pointed out.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-643	Mrs. Old President! I thought I'd start by telling you about Ann. Ann is a 15-year-old girl who came to Sweden in September 2014. She then came to a country that was just undergoing an election – an election that eventually also gave us the government that is still in office, even though it does not have a majority in parliament. It is a government that often points out that it is a feminist government. However, Ann does not know anything about this. She came here because her much older husband decided that they would go to Sweden. Ann also does not know anything about the proposals put forward by the parties in their motions in autumn 2014. These are suggestions about preventing child marriage, about looking after the best interests of the child and about listening to what children themselves want. Ann's not a kid who's usually in charge. Ann didn't decide that she would marry or who to marry. Nor was it her will to go to the cold land in the north. Ann wanted to stay at home, but she couldn't. Mrs. Old President! When we had our big debate on family law in the Parliamentary Committee, Ann was placed in a municipality somewhere in Sweden – together with her husband, with whom she was married at the time. During that debate, which took place in March 2015, Ola Johansson from the Center Party questioned why the Swedish Democrats have a proposal to completely remove the possibility for children to be married in Sweden. We had already removed that possibility, according to him. As we stand here in Parliament again, I am a little extra happy that Ola Johansson has now understood that children can be married in Sweden. As I understand it, we also fully agree that this needs to change. Mrs. Old President! From the time Ann came to our country and until now, the feminist government has done a lot. Many papers with many fine words have been passed around, and even more beautiful words have been heard today. Taxes have been raised and new taxes have been created. The Prime Minister has travelled around the world and, among other things, told the President of the United States about the bad refugee policy that the government has inherited from previous governments. New rules and laws have been written in all kinds of areas. The government has made strong statements on all kinds of things, from the fight against crime to the boat color to which one should use. How has this affected the girl Ann, who came here in 2014? The unsustainable refugee policy that Löfven One claims to have inherited may of course have influenced Ann from where she lives and how many others live in the same dwelling. Ann has also been affected by decisions on compensation rules, and Ann was possibly affected by the rules on child benefit when she came here. Does the old lady know that in Sweden there are special rules for child benefit for married girls? How sick is that? I asked the minister responsible a question about these particular rules, and for once I had a clear answer. Annika Strandhäll began her reply with this: In fact, I could not have said it better myself: The problem is that children are married. But why does the government do nothing about it? Apparently, special rules have been developed for the children's allowance of married girls, but the government has not been able to develop rules that prevent children from being placed in marriage. Moreover, the government parties have now reserved themselves against the announcement made by the Committee on Civil Liberties. It points out that the government does not want to see a complete ban on child marriage. It is said in its reservation that situations can arise where a foreign child marriage should be recognised in order for Sweden to live up to its international commitments, and a little further down the text mentions the right of EU citizens to free movement. It is clear that agreements are being made here with the EU on the free movement of children's rights across the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which points out child marriage as something to be combated. I would like to ask the government parties if they are proud of how the government has dealt with the issue of child marriage during this term of office. What the feminist government has succeeded in is possibly delaying all measures and burying the whole issue in an investigation, which will be completed just in time for the government to resign in connection with the elections. Are the government parties proud of that? I can see that it no longer matters to Ann how the government finally decides that a possible law should look like. Ann turns 19 this year. To conclude, I would like to apologise for having taken some time, but I think that this issue is so important that it is actually worth it. I would like to endorse reservation 17 on automatic joint custody of unmarried parents and reservation 28 on the registration of wills. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but for the sake of time, I am only in favour of these two.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-655	Mrs. Old President! No one's missed what it is today, have they? We're gonna rock the socks. I did, and the proof is in my hands. I'm putting my socks back in now. We rock the socks to pay attention to people who have Down's syndrome and thus a mental disorder that can vary and in one way or another make a dependency on someone who helps in everyday life, makes important decisions and ensures that you manage in the future. Those who help are often close relatives, parents or siblings. They play a huge role and help people with disabilities with support to function in society and perhaps work, sport and be active citizens of society. Mrs. Old President! Today, 123 000 Swedish citizens are represented by a good man or a trustee. And there are 100 children every year born with Down's syndrome – children who will grow up and grow up and then want to live as independently as possible. So there is much love this day and all the other days for you who are good men for relatives or who are appointed by the municipal guardians and for a very small compensation put a lot of work into helping those who need it most. Mrs. Old President! The Centre Party has a reservation, No 20, on a review of the system of guardians, good men and trustees, to which I am calling for approval today. In fact, we are tired of the government having done nothing at all, despite several announcements from the Swedish Parliament and constant promises that a review will take place, either because of the criticism that has come from us in the Swedish Parliament about shortcomings in control and follow-up or even because of the criticism that the Swedish National Audit Office gave to the government on 14 December last year. When I raised this matter in an interpellation to Minister Heléne Fritzon, her answer was that the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism is just a piece of the puzzle and that there is no reason to rush forward anything, not even an investigation. This gives us in the Center Party reason to be moaning today, when family law is to be debated. We want to see a review of the whole system, which includes examining whether parts of it can be professionalised. We have proposed starting with good men for unaccompanied minors, because it is a group of special needs where several are likely to remain and contribute in our country after they have become of age. We want an authority – not necessarily a new one – to have a coordinating role. As the Swedish National Audit Office points out, this is nothing like the seven county boards that today have the task of coordinating able to do for the 230 municipal guardians in the country. Mrs. Old President! Control needs to be improved. Good men who put in systems to cheat their principals on money or mismanage their mission and do not take responsibility for the person they are committed to destroying for all those who are doing a fantastic job at low compensation. The Center Party wants to increase the so-called free amount, so that a larger part of the principal's income can go to replace the good man. There are not many opportunities left for us to point this out during this parliamentary term. In fact, you are getting quite tired of nagging about the split between those who need help with assistance or good men and the government that rather impairs the opportunities for the most vulnerable in Sweden. Mrs. Old President! Sweden needs new leadership, and we will get that after 9 September. Mrs. Old President! I also agree with the report in the part dealing with child marriage and polygamous marriage, polygamy. For the Center Party it is not acceptable that there should remain some kind of valve that allows someone to be married in Sweden to a person who is under 18 years of age, and this regardless of the circumstances. The same applies to polygamous marriages. Multiple marriages should remain criminal and prohibited. Today 300 people are registered by the Swedish Tax Agency as bigamists or polygamists. The government's investigation, on which we have an announcement, has not yet been set up. Obviously it is with a new leadership that these issues also need to be dealt with after 9 September. Finally, I would also like to endorse reservation 29 on amendments to the Personal Names Act. The Center Party has supported all the changes in the new name law and believes it is self-evident that such a fundamental right as it is to decide for itself what to name should be strengthened. It is all the more surprising, then, that after separation it is still not possible to get a double name that helps to strengthen ties with the common children. On the contrary, there are persons who are not allowed to take the surname of the former spouse or parent of the joint child as part of a double name even with the consent of that person. It is difficult to justify why this should be the case. That is why I am in favour of the alliance parties' reservation in that part.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-669	Mrs. Old President! The system of guardians, good men and managers is part of society's safety net for the most vulnerable in society. Persons who, due to their age or illness, need good men or managers must be able to rely on the deputy to perform adequate work and that the supervision of the administration is adequate. Recruitment problems, lack of legal certainty, insufficient control, lack of central coordination and support, uneven education and knowledge in the country's municipalities are part of the shortcomings of the current system. Therefore, at the committee's proposal, in spring 2017, the Riksdag issued an announcement to the Government to take the initiative as soon as possible to monitor the functioning of the legislation in this area and to consider other improvements to the system of good men and managers. In order to overcome existing shortcomings and ensure a high level of quality in operations, it is now high time for a review of the entire legislation on the system of good governance and guardians. Such a thorough review is also recommended by the Swedish National Audit Office in its review report of December 2017 on the supervision of deputies and transfer guardians. A study should be set up with the task of drafting new legislation that better responds to current needs and conditions in a legally secure manner. The investigation should consider whether to introduce a purely municipal responsibility for good men and managers within their own organisation. Proposals for legislative amendments should be made to introduce joint and several municipal liability for property offences committed by a deputy against the principal in the context of his mandate. For the Left Party, it is a fundamental starting point that an individual who, for various reasons, receives support from society should not suffer financial damage from this, but in this respect be kept free of harm. We therefore believe that legal protection needs to be improved and that there should be increased possibilities for the principal to obtain compensation from the municipality for damage caused by the deputy. It is also appropriate to propose that all deputies undergo compulsory basic training and that the transfer guardian be responsible for providing them with the training necessary to carry out the mission as well as proposals on the organisation of training for transfer guardians and transfer guardian boards to ensure a higher level of competence among them. The Left Party wants to see better coordination, cooperation and information for deputies and for those who are willing to take a position as deputy. For example, there could be a telephone service or a digital service where deputies could turn for support, help and information. Furthermore, a common forum for all regulated voluntary assignments can facilitate support for contractors and answers to questions arising during ongoing assignments, such as the current regulatory framework. Mrs. Old President! The current system of good men for unaccompanied minors has major shortcomings and needs to be reviewed. The sometimes very long waiting period before a good man is appointed is unacceptable. Furthermore, the number of assignments that a good man should be able to have and the child's ability to change his or her good man should be reviewed if he or she fails to carry out his or her duties. The government should therefore set up an investigation tasked with reviewing the system of good men for unaccompanied minors with a view to introducing a maximum limit on waiting time in order to obtain a good man and to ensure a high level of quality in the performance of the mission. Another issue that needs further examination is the support from good men to children with special needs. This can be about children with needs that require special skills to help properly. There is generally a great value in the fact that the mission as a good man is carried out by volunteers and not by employed persons. For children with special needs, however, there may be reason to explore the possibility of introducing a model with professional men. The most important thing is to ensure that these children receive the support they need and that their good men have the necessary skills. The proposed investigation should therefore also review the system in order to ensure that good men appointed for children with special needs are competent for the task. We support all the reservations of the Left Party, but I only support reservation 21.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-680	Mrs. Old President! Sweden has come a long way on the road to a more equal society. We Liberals have been leading the fight for women's rights ever since we fought for women's right to vote 100 years ago. We will continue to fight for more liberal achievements and greater freedom for more people to shape their lives as they wish. We've got a lot of work to do. The biggest equality struggle today is the fight against honour-related violence and oppression. Already in 2006 Nyamko Sabuni wrote the writing The Girls we fail. It is about the hundreds of thousands of girls, but also boys, who are subjected daily to honour-related violence and oppression in Sweden. Researchers today believe that it is up to 240 000 young people in Sweden who are forced to live with these standards. Mrs. Old President! Let me be clear! In Liberalernas Sverige, gender equality applies to everyone, including girls and women with a foreign background. There shall be no A-teams and B-teams in this respect. That is why I am going to talk about one of the most important issues of the Liberals: children's right to be children. Children should not be married in Sweden – point. We shall have no exceptions. Sweden needs comprehensive protection against child marriage. Already in the writing The girls we let down wrote Nyamko Sabuni about stopping child marriage. But still 2018, twelve years later, girls grow up as children's girls in Sweden. In 2018, we have adult men who receive child benefit for their own children's girls. In 2018, we have children who get on the bus and buy children's tickets for their own children. In 2018, we have children who have sex with adult men, which we accept according to Swedish law. Sweden's politicians have chosen to turn a blind eye to the children's girls instead of fighting for their rights. The protection of married children has gradually been strengthened in Sweden in recent years. Even during the time of the alliance government, we did a lot of things. Liberals have been constantly pushing the issue and, of course, welcome these liberal achievements. We cannot keep the opt-out for exceptional reasons if we want to be able to look these girls in the eye. In the Netherlands, comprehensive protection was already introduced in 2015. Marriages concluded under foreign law should never be recognised if the girl is a girl child when she comes to the Netherlands. The same must apply in Sweden. Today's exceptions to the law on international law have led Sweden to recognise a large number of children's marriages. These are at least 132 cases, but the Migration Board says that the number of darkness is probably very large. When the Migration Board came up with their report Are you married? the government did nothing. It took a year – and the Liberals in the Swedish Parliament threatened to legislate in the Riksdag together with the rest of the Alliance – until the government, with its tail between its legs, set up an investigation. It is not acceptable for it to be this way. Almost all affected are girls. It is girls whose freedom to shape their future is greatly curtailed, limited and, in some cases, completely destroyed. It's girls who are forced to have sex with grown men and have children. Every girl who has been affected is a disgrace to all of us sitting in this House. Children should be allowed to be children and not be subjected to child marriage – as the Social Democrats' Hillevi Larsson said in the House earlier today. At the same time, however, the Social Democrats and Hillevi Larsson do not want to take a stand for a total ban on child marriage. Mrs. Old President! In fact, double standards are not twice as good. It's just double standards. Not taking a stand on the part of the Social Democrats is also taking a stand. This time Hillevi Larsson and the Social Democrats are betraying girls' rights and putting themselves on the men's side, for adult men's right to be married to children. Hillevi Larsson and the Social Democrats are betraying the girls. Mrs. Old President! The liberal idea of every person's freedom, power and integrity is not history but living values to fight for. It is the same ideas that will carry Sweden into the future, that enable people to dream and develop and that make Sweden one of the world's most respected countries. But if we are to maintain that respect, we must have a complete ban on child marriage.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-691	Mrs. Old President! I wasn't really going to ask for a line, because we basically agree that we're against child marriage. Nevertheless, I must react to the talk of double standards. It is nevertheless the case that we have a system, both in the government and in the parliament, which is that if an investigation is set up, one should show respect for that investigation. This is an investigation that we have set up in unity. It started with the parliament demanding that the government do something, and the government in turn set up this investigation, which has also taken in the views of the political parties. We should therefore show respect not only for the investigation but also for the parties in Parliament on this matter. The referral period for the investigation expired on 8 March. So it's very recent. I also think that respect should be shown to the consultative bodies who have made an effort to understand the investigation proposal and to make comments that can be very valuable to the work of the government. If we are to start with the order of ignoring what investigations come with and not preparing them as usual, I think that this could have very negative consequences for the work of Parliament and the government. It is clear that speed is important, but it is also important to have care and to have a good understanding of the proposals that are coming. Had it been that you did not need an investigation, well, then the government could have made decisions even before. Then you didn't have to set up an investigation. That is why I think it is extremely important to talk about double standards when you want to take on board the proposals of the inquiry precisely because you think that the issue and the proposals made by the referral bodies are so important. However, I promise that the government will come back as soon as possible on this issue.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-696	Mrs. Old President! Let's talk about what's important: The important thing is that we don't have children in Sweden who are forced to have sex with adult men and give birth to their children. It's important. What is also important in Sweden is that we have political parties that dare to have political opinions. It is political babble that Hillevi Larsson does here. She refers to investigations and various systems – it's political babble. The Social Democrats are a political party that stands in political elections to enforce politics. When the Social Democrats do not want to take a stand against child marriage, it is also to take a stand, namely for the adult men. It is taking a stand for children to have sex with adult men and give birth to children of adult men with whom they are married. It is quite clear that, due to the lack of legislation, married girls in Malmö, for example, have been placed with their adult husbands and given birth to their children. That is unacceptable! It is not worthy of Sweden that we have a system where girls who were born in Sweden have total protection against child marriage, while girls who were born in other countries and come here and seek a life in freedom are put in child marriage. We tolerate this. I'm not demanding that we do not investigate. I think it's good that we have an investigation. However, it should have been set up immediately when the Migration Agency warned the government. Here in Parliament, we, together with the Alliance, had to fight for more than a year from the time you promised an investigation to its appointment. Is that acceptable? Is it to be on the girls' side? On the contrary, I believe you are betraying the girls as long as you do not take a stand. It is not that the government has to take a stand. The Social Democrats as a political party refuse to take a stand on this issue. Sorry. You're letting the girls down.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-702	Mrs. Old President! We have tightened up the rules on child marriage several times. It was a bourgeois government that proposed the legislation that we have today. Then one could say that the government failed the girls, because they left a safety valve or allowed exceptions to the rules. After all, we have come forward in agreement with these proposals on several occasions. It is not that the bourgeois parties protested in any way, but, on the contrary, they supported this proposal. New problems and new situations arise. Progress is being made, and values are moving forward. That is something positive, and then you take another step. The investigation proposal is not the government's policy either. The government will look at the investigation's proposal and see if it chooses to proceed according to the investigation's proposal or in any other way. The possibility may be tightened up further, thus going one step further beyond what the investigation has proposed, but also then taking into account the views of the consultation bodies. Although this issue is very important, and it is important that we move forward quickly, it is also very important that we do it as well as possible. Otherwise, we will again be standing in this House and see that it did not work, and we will have to do it again from the beginning. We must be able to do both: prioritise and speed up this process, but also do so in a thorough way. In this matter, marriage is the one we are opposed to. We have girls and boys in Sweden today, i.e. Swedish citizens, who are living together, who have sex with each other, who live together and who have children together. They should, of course, be over 15 years of age, because that is the limit we have set. This particular issue is about marriage, and we agree that we must stop child marriage as quickly as possible.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-709	Mrs. Old President! I find it distressing to stand and compare young people who have voluntarily chosen to live with girls who have been married away in their home countries. That is what has happened: they are being married away in their own countries. Comparing these situations is almost regrettable, and I certainly do not hope that is the line of the Social Democrats. Let me be clear: the Liberals and the Social Democrats are not in agreement. We really are not. As long as you do not take a stand for a total ban on child marriage, you betray the girls and stand on the side of the adult men, for their right to have sex with girls. Sorry — that's it. I do not believe that the government needs to take a stand on this; I believe that the Social Democrats need to take a stand on this issue. Politics cannot be pursued without opinions. One cannot sit and refer to investigations, moreover, with a government that has certainly not done much on this issue. The report are you married? from the Finnish Immigration Service came in early 2016. Even then, you should have set up an investigation. It was only in 2017, after the Liberals and the Alliance were prepared to legislate here in Parliament, that you even did something. Read any newspaper article about this, and it is very clear! You betrayed these girls even then by not setting up the investigation in time, and you choose to betray them now, because you do not want to take a stand on the matter. However, you are a political party. Dare to take a stand! Dare to take a stand for the girls!
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-714	Mrs. Old President! I would like to start by referring to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, Article 1: Every person under the age of 18 is a child. The issue of child marriage should be simple. People who live in Sweden and are under 18 years of age should not be married. Point. There should be no paragraph or valve to approve child marriage. The issue of child marriage, forced marriage and even polygamous marriage are part of a much greater problem, namely the problem of honour oppression. It is a problem that has unfortunately become more extensive in Sweden. When Fadime 中ahindal spoke in Parliament 16 years ago, two months before she was shot by her father, she said: Don't turn your back on them! You can't turn your back on us. She spoke about all immigrant girls who live in Sweden and who are under pressure of honour. We have children in Sweden today who are married. We have girls and also boys who are subjected to honorary oppression in Sweden. We've turned our backs on them. But now we have a chance to turn against them again and see the problems of child marriage and do something about them. I was almost provoked when the Left Party Member of Parliament was up in the pulpit talking only about good men and guardians. These are important issues in themselves, but the report deals in many respects with the repression of honour and the culture of honour. Not in one word have these questions been mentioned, which is typical of the Left Party. The party has ducked the issue and denied that the problems exist, and thus they have been part of the culture that has existed in politics in Sweden where they have turned their backs on these girls. Marrying children and, above all, young girls often means that they are denied schooling. Besides being married to men, if they don't want to be married to--they're children who shouldn't have sexual relations with adult men-- they're sometimes denied going to school. It means that their future is ruined. They have no chance of getting out of the situation they are in because they do not get the knowledge they need to do so. Many of them have children too young, which also means physical stress and consequences for them when they grow up. We all have reason to be self-critical. In the past, we should have done much more to tackle the issue of honorary oppression in general, child marriages, forced marriages and polygamous marriages. Now things are finally starting to happen, and we are addressing issues that we should have addressed a long time ago. Now we have a chance to really do something. We have a chance to take a clear stand and mark that in Sweden there is no possibility of exceptions. Children may not be married in Sweden regardless of culture, religion or where they come from. Mrs. Old President! It is an important part of feminist foreign policy to mark for other countries that we take a stand on these issues in Sweden. The Convention on the Rights of the Child applies; you are a child until you are 18 – and you should not be married. Unfortunately, it is still common in many parts of the world, and it is important that we indicate that we absolutely do not want to be part of this. The Government's proposal still leaves an opportunity to make exceptions if there are specific reasons. The argument is precisely international commitments. I think that our biggest international commitment should reasonably be to focus on children and their rights, that is, the right not to be married away before you are an adult. We should not continue to make exceptions in Sweden. We have to stop now! I therefore support the committee's proposal for a decision under paragraph 1.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-724	Mrs. Old President! After what follows from the 5th chapter. Section 1 of the Old Railway Act is to be used by the Finnish Transport Agency as a starting point to compensate for the damage caused by railway operations, so-called strict liability. This strict liability means that the Finnish Transport Administration normally pays compensation for certain relatives of third parties who have died in rail transport without actually making a difference to whether this is an accident or a suicide. According to Trafikverket, such compensation is intended to cover, on the one hand, compensation for funeral expenses and, on the other hand, compensation for non-profit damage to certain relatives with a flat-rate amount of a price base. This is good. One could say that the Swedish Transport Administration assumes responsibility for the fact that an unauthorized person is in the track and is hit by a car. On the other hand, the new railway law, as it is written, does not provide compensation for non-profit damage for, for example, mental suffering to the driver who is driving on a person. The Swedish Transport Administration suddenly assumes no responsibility for the fact that an unauthorized person has been on the track. The engineer who, against his will, has killed another person, which is always a traumatic experience that persecutes the driver for the rest of the driver's life, receives no compensation at all from the Finnish Transport Administration. In order to receive compensation, the train driver is forced after a couple of months to a degrading investigation with the insurance company where one should report on the traumatic experience again. The insurance agent has no training in crisis management. The insurance agent's job is to save money for his company, but the agent only tears up old wounds in the engineer. If, after a few months, Trafikverket had called a relative of the person who killed himself – a mother, father, widower, widower or a child – and asked how you feel two months after Dad killed himself in front of the train, or if you can sleep at night, or if you think about it about the days, would that have been acceptable? Of course not. Of course, the driver should not have these conversations, just as family members do not. Mrs. Old President! Many years ago I drove a freight train one Sunday morning from Nässjö down to Malmö. Suddenly, at a red car, there's an old lady standing right in front of the track. She's walking towards me. Against everything I've learned, to hold your ears and close your eyes, I make eye contact with man. Just before I hit her, she throws herself at the locomotive, just like she's going to push it. She's going under the locomotive. I'll run her over with the whole freight train and stop. I'll call the train traffic control. They, in turn, alert the emergency services. The rescue service comes in and examines the train and comes up to me and says: We can't find anything. Then I'll start thinking about pink elephants. I describe an elderly woman in her 70's to 75's, in a gray jacket, who threw herself in front of the locomotive. Oh, the cat, they say, she's the one who's in the car behind the train. We thought it was strange that there's a woman sitting on a Sunday morning just waiting. They ran back, but the woman had driven from the scene. I'm waiting for our peer supporter. We have a fantastic peer support organization in the railway that takes care of us after such an accident. When they arrive at the same time the train traffic is released on, and the first train that passes is the sleeping train that comes from Stockholm. It passes for 40 kilometers an hour. After a couple of minutes, the train traffic control calls me up and asks if the peer supporter has arrived. Yes, he had arrived. Then we were told that we could drive to the next station because there had been another accident, they said. Let's get in the cab and go to the next station. When we get there, I see the red car. When we get out of the cab, I see the body lying on the embankment. The woman has laid her neck on the rails. After two months, the insurance company calls me and asks me how I feel etcetera. I managed that event pretty well. I convinced myself that perhaps the woman did this because she had cancer or for some other reason. After all, she was old. I had to tell you how I slept, how I felt about it, if I thought about the event, blah blah blah and so on. Then I received a compensation of SEK 3,000. The funny thing about this, Madam President, is that my fellow engineer who actually drove the woman to death got a thousand less. A couple of years ago, it was time again. Then there was a girl in her 18 to 20s who threw herself in front of the train when I came driving. The same organization started again, the police came, the rescue services came, and the comrades came in. Then there was crisis management after that. When I went home after the debriefing, conversations, and so on, Madam Old President, I called my daughter, who was then 20 years old. My daughter replied: Hello, Dad! Then it broke completely for me. I thought there were two parents, a mother and a father, who today do not have a daughter to call and who answer: Hello, Dad! This incident has haunted me virtually every day. There won't be a day without me thinking about this. Two months later, the insurance company calls me. A busy woman introduces herself and starts asking me: How are you today? Are you thinking about the experience? Can you sleep at night? It was a hell of a hearing! It ended up, Madam Old President, that I actually asked her to go to a certain place down. I think it would have been some kind of recognition from the Finnish Transport Administration if the same rules had applied to us train drivers as to the relatives. Mrs. Old President! I'm talking here for all 3,000 train drivers in the country. Let's not have to tear up old wounds. Let's just move on. We are as much affected as the relatives, and we should have the same rights as the relatives. The country's train driver, Madam President-in-Office, calls on all parties here to support our reservation. I commend our reservation. ( SERVING AGESPRESIDENT: Sometimes reality comes straight into Parliament's Chamber. We have to think a lot about this. )
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-742	Mrs. Old President! Negotiations on a comprehensive EU-Canada Trade and Investment Agreement started in 2009. Five years later, the CETA agreement was presented. Apart from the fact that the agreement must be approved by the Council of Ministers of the European Union and the European Parliament, as has already been done, it must also be approved at national level in all the parliaments of the Member States in order for the agreement to apply in all parts. Today is the debate we have in the Swedish Parliament. Sweden is a small export-dependent country. Our trade with the outside world is crucial to our prosperity and development. Over the years, the Left Party has actively supported the abolition of customs duties, quotas and other formal barriers to trade by Sweden. Today, the EU and Sweden have already phased out many of their tariffs and quotas against large economies and important trading partners. Therefore, the criticism of the CETA agreement is not about tariffs and quotas, but about the fact that the agreement imposes democratic restrictions, a deterioration of social rights, difficulties in regulating welfare and obstacles to environmental and climate measures. The agreement has also been strongly criticised for the lack of democratic transparency in the negotiation process. Unnecessaryly, the agreement unfortunately means a shift of power to large companies as it offers unique opportunities for them to sue Sweden and other EU countries. The Left Party is neither opposed to trade nor advocates of trade barriers. We want a fair trade policy that does not mean any deterioration for the citizens of the countries covered. We want a trade policy that puts people, animals and the environment first and focuses on increased social benefits, not just for big business. That is why we are today rejecting the Government's proposal to approve the CETA agreement. For Sweden, Canada is a very small trading partner. Exports to Canada account for 0.8 percent of Sweden's total exports and imports for 0.3 percent of total imports. Canada is 37th in the ranking of the countries that Sweden imports most from and at 23rd place over the countries that Sweden exports most to. The supporters of CETA have high economic expectations of the agreement. At the same time, studies show that the agreement will bring relatively small economic benefits. There are also studies showing that there may be negative macroeconomic effects, partly because of job losses and partly because of the strengthening of existing economic gaps. There are thus differences of opinion as to the extent of the impact of the agreement. It has also proved unclear with other trade agreements. The effects are extremely complex and complex to predict, something that has been shown time and again. Indeed, it is not unlikely that CETA will bring some financial gain to the parties. The question, however, is how big it will be, who will have access to it and, not least, whether it is proportionate to the risks arising from the agreement. CETA, like the criticised TTIP previously planned between the EU and the US, includes a chapter on regulatory cooperation. The aim of regulatory cooperation is to avoid existing and future unnecessary barriers to trade and investment and avoid unnecessary regulatory differences. For this purpose, a regulatory cooperation forum shall be established within CETA to evaluate legislative initiatives. This may sound laudable, but in practice it means that a non-politically elected assembly will examine political proposals in advance from a trade perspective. Although the agreement contains safeguard clauses which ensure that countries' right to regulate and legislate is not restricted by regulatory cooperation, there is an imminent risk that it will act as a blocking body for progressive legislation, for example in the field of the environment. So it has worked with the American OIRA, which has been the model of the proposal. It will also be relevant to ask who is allowed to define what constitutes a barrier to trade. A national ban on fossil fuels in favour of renewable energy can either be regarded as an acute necessity for the planet's survival or as a barrier to trade, depending on who is allowed to decide. One of the most controversial parts of CETA is investor protection. The aim is to ensure that investors who feel that a State is in breach of the agreement can appeal to a special court. This means that investors are given the right to sue states, i.e. Sweden, other EU countries and Canada, if legislation and regulations can be considered to have a negative impact on the value of the investment. In plain language, companies can demand compensation from states for loss of profits. Within the framework of CETA, a court of 15 judges shall be appointed. The lawsuit and the legal process are thus taking place in this court outside the national legal system. ICS is a further development of a similar system found in many other trade agreements called ISDS. However, ISDS has received a lot of criticism, and the mechanisms in CETA are therefore slightly modified but based on the same principles. ISDS protects the investor against direct expropriation. Today, however, ISDS has increasingly become a protection against so-called indirect expropriation. It is therefore no longer a matter of protecting assets owned by companies, but of protecting their estimated profits. Thus, companies can sue states if they consider that national legislation prevents them and their ability to make profits. ISDS has thereby become an effective means of preventing progressive legislation and, by extension, constitutes a direct threat to our democracy. Since both EU Member States and Canada have stable and functioning legal systems, there is no apparent reason to bring disputes in this type of new court. Trade agreements between States with functioning legal systems should therefore not contain ISDS clauses or similar mechanisms. On the one hand, the need is lacking and, on the other, the ordinary legal system is circumvented. Moreover, democratic decisions are at risk of being undermined or even lacking due to the profit interests of companies. Furthermore, there is no clear evidence that the amount of investment flows would benefit from ICS. In other words, the benefits are very unclear, but the risks are all the greater. Moving political decisions from national parliaments to a set of lawyers is a serious matter, not least from a democratic point of view. Moreover, a very worrying effect is that states themselves seem to adapt their legislation in order to avoid being sued. One of the more well-known examples is when the tobacco company Philip Morris launched a lawsuit against Australia in 2011 based on the Hong Kong-Australia investment agreement. The reason was that the country wanted to introduce neutral cigarette packs without advertising or pictures in order to reduce smoking. Philip Morris claimed that the legislation involved a so-called indirect expropriation. Despite the fact that Australia won after a lengthy legal process, the lawsuit still had the consequence that New Zealand decided to wait for similar legislation until the verdict had come to an end. Also Swedish Vattenfall's two lawsuits of Germany have mainly been about stopping and worsening new legislation rather than getting monetary compensation. The criticism is in many ways similar to that which existed against the TTIP agreement. There have been concerns as to how the agreement could lead large multinational US companies to use their resources to pressure EU countries to counter trade union rights and environmental requirements and reduce welfare. CETA opens the back door so that US subsidiaries with operations in Canada also have the opportunity to sue European states. Today, one in ten companies in Canada is American-owned. How is Sweden affected by ICS? According to a report by UNCTAD, there has been a sharp increase in ISDS cases since the early 2000s. North American large companies are over-represented in bringing states to justice in order to secure estimated profits and investment values. One current area is the mining sector. Sweden is a relatively attractive country for mineral prospectuses, and many Canadian companies are already operating in Sweden. The mining industry is a strategically important industry, not least in regions that have previously suffered from high unemployment and emigration. At the same time mining has a major impact on the environment and environment. Against new exploitations are many times other interests. In Sweden, the compensation to state and property owners in the event of mining is very small in an international comparison. It amounts to only 2 per mil of the estimated value of the minerals that have been mined. According to statistics from the World Bank, Sweden's mining industry has the lowest taxation of all mining countries in the world. According to the statistics, the effective tax rate amounts to approximately 28 per cent. In very few counties, the tax rate is less than 40 per cent. Mining has been an area where many lawsuits have taken place. Canadian companies are currently involved in extractive activities in Spain, Ireland, Finland, Romania, Bulgaria and Greece, where they have been accused of not taking environmental considerations into account. Many times mining projects have been carried out in sensitive natural areas and have destroyed the conditions for local tourism business. The local population has also not been taken into account, and the discharges of mines have affected local agriculture. The Canadian company Glamis Gold sued California when the state imposed restrictions on restoring an area for their mine taking into account the indigenous population. Fortunately, the company lost that particular case. Another example is the Canadian mining company Gabriel Resources, which sued Romania for billions after Parliament rejected a controversial mining project for environmental reasons. For Sweden, CETA would provide an opportunity for the Canadian mining industry to sue the state every time Swedish authorities impose environmental restrictions or want to take account of the local population and its industries. The Left sees a great need for a change in mineral legislation, which takes greater account of the municipalities concerned, the environment and the climate. However, there is considerable doubt as to whether such a change in legislation is in line with the commitments in CETA. With the agreement in place, it will not be the national parliaments and courts who will interpret it, but it will be handed over to the ICS Court. Another example is the question of limiting profits in welfare. The Left Party has long been pushing that private companies should not be able to fill the treasure chest by impoverishing our common welfare. The support for a welfare without profits is great in Sweden, and as many as 74 percent would like to see a stop. Despite uncertainties as to how CETA may affect Swedish welfare, the government chooses not to take criticism seriously. Measures at municipal level may also be subject to the investment protection of the agreement. If you decide to ensure good quality in your welfare, CETA can provide a basis for a lawsuit if this is considered to have a negative impact on the company's trade and investments. In the bill, the government states that the CETA agreement does not have any negative fiscal consequences. This is a strange assumption given that Sweden can be sued for billions of dollars. The Danish Government has acknowledged that the CETA agreement may have financial consequences if one is sued as a country. Therefore, the government should investigate the financial consequences of the CETA agreement and return to the Riksdag with an analysis. There are different ways of establishing trade agreements. As regards the agreements previously concluded by the EU, a so-called positive list of services covered is normally used. This means listing a list of services to be subject to liberalisation commitments under the agreements. In the case of CETA, the EU is now entering into an agreement with the opposite model for the first time, using a negative list. In that case, all services that are not clearly excluded are covered. Liberalisation thus becomes the rule. In Sweden, the liberalisation of many important markets has led to reduced accessibility and service. This has been the case, for example, for the pharmacy market, which has reduced the availability of medicines for several vulnerable groups. Another example is the liberalisation of the electricity market, which has led to significantly higher tariffs for customers. So far, it is difficult to find out what the actual differences will be in practice. However, CETA is still a trend break, and without further analysis this system is approved, which may seem unfortunate. It cannot be ruled out that the change can affect the political room for manoeuvre in relation to Swedish liberalisations. CETA also means that liberalisation in the field of services will not be able to reverse. This applies regardless of what the political majority wishes. For example, if Sweden chooses to privatise new markets, such as Systembolaget, a so-called ratchet clause is automatically activated, which prevents a restored monopoly, whether such privatisation could prove to be very poor from a public health point of view or be a bad deal. The question is therefore settled in advance by the agreement. In conclusion, there are a number of reasons for concern about CETA and the consequences of this agreement. For Sweden, for example, it can be about our independence when it comes to deciding on important climate measures, about our mining industry and about privatisations and sales. Sweden depends on a good export. But it must not be at the expense of important social rights or opportunities to halt climate change. With the Treaty of Lisbon, power was transferred from Member States to the European Commission in negotiating trade agreements. But trade policy remains a partly national matter. It is clear that many in Europe are critical of the CETA agreement. CETA has been negotiated without further Swedish discussion or debate, even though the agreement has extensive implications for trade in areas that affect many people. CETA has been negotiated behind closed doors, and opportunities for elected politicians to influence have been small. The Left Party wants to see a trade policy that takes advantage of social and trade union rights, which safeguard democracy, gender equality and human rights, and which is based on sustainability and long-term sustainability. The CETA agreement is not an agreement that is in line with such a policy. The Swedish Parliament should therefore reject the Government's proposal to approve the CETA agreement between the EU and Canada. Mrs. Old President! Two weeks ago, the Court of Justice ruled that BITS-type investment agreements within the EU are not compatible with EU law. The clarification of the Court of Justice of the European Union now concerns the investment part of the BITS agreement between the Netherlands and Slovakia. In the long run, this means that all 196 bilateral investment agreements between countries within the EU must be abolished, of which Sweden today has eight. It is also on the table of the Court of Justice of the European Union to determine whether the investment component of the CETA agreement with Canada is compatible with EU law. Some countries have now announced that they will await this verdict before proceeding with the ratification process of the CETA agreement. It is important to remember that several recent judgments of the European Court of Justice on trade policy have given the Commission back homework. If a Member State enters into an agreement with a third country, although the Member State can reasonably foresee that the agreement is contrary to EU law, the Member State acts in breach of the principle of fair cooperation in the EU Treaty. Sweden would therefore act in breach of the EU Treaty if Parliament today ratified the CETA agreement before the EU Court of Justice has given its opinion. Therefore, on behalf of the Left Party, I call for the entire report to be referred back to the Foreign Affairs Committee for further consideration until it is clear whether the CETA agreement is in breach of EU law. The proposal for referral back must be considered before Parliament deals with the content of the report itself.
i-Yaqv8uLxUdu3DdtVuP3pHt	( TERMINARY AGESPRESIDENTS: The question of referral back will be examined in connection with the vote later. )
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-787	Mrs. Old President! I can only say that my speech will sound a little different. Today we are finally debating the Economic and Trade Agreement, CETA, and the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the EU and Canada. I finally say, therefore, that the negotiations on the CETA agreement have been ongoing since June 2009, and the final text of the agreement was published in February 2016. The Agreement was signed in October 2016 and a common interpretative instrument was adopted. As regards the Partnership Agreement, the negotiations started in September 2011 and were concluded in September 2014. The European Parliament approved the agreements in February 2017, and if I am properly informed, we will be the eighth country of all the Member States of the European Union to decide on this. Mrs. Old President! I am also saying at last because we Social Democrats are in favour of free trade and want more countries to have the same opportunities in the future. Unfortunately, since in this context the WTO finds it difficult to reach agreement on some of its attempts to establish a common ground in world trade, it will be for many a solution to solve it between countries and regions instead. This is not something that the WTO opposes, but I think it is a pity that this is the case, because there is a risk that it is ultimately those who would need the most comprehensive international agreements that will be those without agreements. That is what we can now see as a partial result of our debate and subsequent decisions on this issue. Mrs. Old President! What, then, should we decide on? When I say this, I have no ambition to go through all the 1 693 pages with the annexes covered by this report. However, I would like to mention a number of points in the agreement that will have significance in the future. Firstly, the agreement aims to improve market access and create rules that are clear, transparent and predictable, while at the same time giving a central role to the promotion of sustainable development. It formalises the possibility of cooperation and exchange. CETA contains provisions on, among other things, customs and trade facilitation, technical barriers to trade, trade in services, public procurement, investments including protection of investments, trade and sustainable development in terms of, for example, working conditions, trade and the environment. It shall strengthen multilateral governance and standards, and the Parties undertake, inter alia, to implement ILO conventions and global environmental agreements. It is an agreement that will ensure that we avoid competition that requires worse conditions, and it will strengthen dialogue and cooperation in the area of sustainable development. Mrs. Old President! As far as the Partnership Agreement is concerned, the origin is a 1976 EC-Canada framework agreement. From there it has evolved over the years. The parts of the Agreement that fall within the competence of the Union became applicable in April 2017. The agreement aims to strengthen political ties on foreign policy and security issues by bringing cooperation to strategic partnership level and by upgrading cooperation in a wide range of policy areas. The Agreement sets out the forms of cooperation and dialogue by establishing consultation mechanisms, such as a Joint Ministerial Committee, Cooperation Committees and Sub-Committees. The agreement establishes cooperation in areas such as international peace and security, research and innovation, the promotion of human rights, sustainable development, illicit drug management, judicial cooperation and political dialogue. Finally, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, it contains general commitments on human rights, democratic principles and respect for the rule of law, the prevention of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the fight against terrorism and organised crime. Mrs. Old President! I began by saying that we have finally come to the moment when we are dealing with this matter. I hope that the President-in-Office will agree with this after this relatively brief report. My view and that of the Social Democrats is that the world and world trade would benefit from more agreements like this. Mrs. Old President! I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for the reservations to be rejected.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-797	Mrs. Old President! Krister, increased trade is fundamentally not in contradiction to trade union rights. Increased productivity and income help strengthen Sweden's economy. However, the CETA trade agreement presents considerable risks and can lead in the directly opposite direction. The CETA agreement contains several positive wordings to guarantee trade union rights. It is pointed out that the parties must not deviate from their labour law obligations or impair trade union rights in order to encourage trade and investment. The major problem is the lack of an effective enforcement mechanism to prevent this from happening. The chapter on labour law in CETA lacks the part on cross-border dispute resolution and does not provide for sanctions if one party violates its commitments. The idea is that any problems should be solved through dialogue. Without effective sanctions, however, promises that labour law and trade union rights will not be adversely affected will not be worth much. This happened, for example, when the EU and South Korea concluded a trade agreement a few years ago. Rather, the risk is that companies take advantage of this opportunity and use social dumping as a strategy to increase their profits. Much of the criticism of CETA has come from trade unions around Europe and Canada. The German umbrella organization DGB, Canadian CLC, European ETUC and European EPSU, but also Swedish Municipal and the union 6F, are just a few trade union organisations that have criticised the lack of effective enforcement mechanisms in the agreement. Why does Krister Örnfjäder want to undermine trade union rights and turn a deaf ear against trade union criticism?
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-802	Mr President, I would like to To me, this sounds very strange. I have the privilege of chairing the WTO parliamentary organisation in the world. This means that I meet people a number of times a year to discuss this issue. That is not what we are talking about here, but the problem of not getting horizontal agreements within the framework of the WTO, where we can monitor these kinds of issues and put in place systems that apply to all countries. My interpretation of what we are discussing now is that we solve some of the problems you describe. It is in the uncontracted society that most problems arise. I say that this agreement is an attempt to get to some of the problems you describe. But what you and I don't have in common is the interpretation. I think that this is still better than what is not. If it is the case that the Left Party wants this too, then I think that it should have worked to get it as an addition instead of advocating a rejection.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-805	Mr President, I would like to Krister Örnfjäder, we are here now and not in the WTO negotiations. I fundamentally share your view that it is not wrong to have more multilateral solutions within the framework of the WTO, but we both know that this is a rather difficult way to go. I do not think this is about interpretation. For me, the Social Democrats, like the Left Party, are part of the labour movement that has stood up for trade union rights throughout history. It will then be very surprising when the Social Democracy says yes, we have managed to get some writing in and are a little satisfied with this, and therefore we can consider saying yes to this – when there are absolutely no opportunities for compliance. It is entirely dependent on a dialogue with Canada to ensure that they comply with the agreement. This agreement has brought some positive things. Canada has signed ILO conventions which it has not previously supported. That is fundamentally positive. However, there is nothing in the agreement that allows us to follow up and ensure that Canada complies with the conventions and the trade union rights that we want to achieve. Should companies within the framework of this agreement, with Canada's good memory, not comply with that kind of legislation, neither Sweden, the Social Democracy nor the EU have an opportunity to point this out. Then we are referring to processes in the ILO and that sort of thing, and that would not be a way of actually putting pressure. That is why I do not understand how the Socialist side can love this agreement as much as it does, when it can clearly fight back on trade union rights.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-809	Mr President, I would like to I think we're in a circle now. We come back to the same position we had when we started the first exchange of views. It's kind of not moving forward. For me, this is the case: we are taking this discussion forward. We support trade union rights, employees' rights and employers' and countries' obligations. But it all actually starts with dialogue. That is how it works both in the labour market and between parliamentarians. You start by talking to each other, and from this you move your positions forward. Here we move our positions forward, and I think we do so in a lot of areas. You have now narrowed down to this part, and I understand that you do. For me, however, these two agreements are not just about this, although it is important and should be taken into account. I argue that they are taken into account and that they have been taken into account. But you take into account as much more as Sweden, Europe and really the world feels good. That is why I want this agreement to be an example of how other agreements can be. Together with Canada, we are going to make sure that it works, in order for it to become a reality in other parts of the world. That is what led me to start from my position with regard to the WTO. I see how much the needs are. I also see the risks of developing countries and regions cooperating more and more while others are at risk of falling further behind. I want them to have agreements like this too. We are working for this, but we are doing it at far too slow a pace. We negotiate with one country at a time, and these are almost 200 countries.
i-VEY7Brz6BXyjkEFZxCn4PA	Mr President, I would like to We are debating the CETA Agreement on Economic and Trade and a Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States and Canada. Let me begin by calling for the proposal in the report of almost 1 700 pages and referring to the special opinion of the Alliance, in which we criticise the government for late handling of this matter. We know that the ancient Greeks, the Phoenicians and the Egyptians used trade and exchange among themselves. In this way man proved thousands of years before our time that the world needs free trade and fewer walls. Free trade is therefore not exactly a novelty. Already in those days people recognized the importance of taking advantage of an open world, where the flow of goods, capital and services, as well as the business and social relations between peoples, ensured peace and stability between them. Mr President, I would like to Negotiations on an EU-Canada Free Trade Agreement took a very long time. They started in 2009 and were signed in October 2016. The European Parliament ratified the final trade agreement in February 2017, and then started the ratification process for the Member States of the Union. The agreement is now on the Swedish Parliament's table for decisions. Mr President, I would like to It took the government a year to submit the bill to the Riksdag. For me, it is remarkable that Sweden – a country that is usually in favour of trade and trade agreements, whose benefits make a strong contribution to our country's prosperity – has taken so long to approve CETA. Probably the government's actions have to do with the active resistance of the Left against all kinds of similar agreements and with its policies, which de facto want to isolate Sweden from the outside world. We recently heard the Left's representative say that CETA is more or less the image of all the evil that will befall mankind. Mr President, I would like to This is a protectionist policy which, if implemented, will have serious consequences for our country's prosperity and well-being. I note that the Green Party is also divided. It is a government party that internally has different views on the content of the agreement. For my part, Mr President, I note that the resistance and isolationist policy of the Left have clearly and negatively affected the government's handling of this matter. Finally, I would like to say that the ratification of CETA is also important because this can hopefully speed up the TTIP agreement between the EU and the US, which has failed.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-823	Mr President, I would like to The Green Party is fundamentally in favour of dismantling unnecessary barriers to trade between states. Trade between countries and investment in countries from other countries not only creates economic development, prosperity and specialisation, but also has the potential to create good relations and, at best, maintain peace. That is why we are in favour of freer trade within planetary and social borders. Today we will discuss CETA. The Green Party has taken a sceptical approach to the agreement. We have listened to the criticism that has been made about certain risks that the agreement has been said to have regarding, for example, the possibility for EU Member States to tighten up their environmental legislation. Many questions have also been raised regarding the arbitration procedure and how it should be done. There we have had a listening ear to, among other things, the environmental movement, which has brought out criticism. As far as the arbitration procedure is concerned, there are now interesting times when this will be examined in EU law to see whether it is legal. At the same time, there has been strong support for CETA in this House. Therefore, the Green Party's strategy has been to analyse in depth the effects of the agreement in order to obtain answers to the questions asked. Furthermore, we have ensured that the wording of the Government proposal on the environment and climate is as sharp as possible. Therefore, for example, the Government will monitor the impact and impact of the agreement in terms of the parties' ability to set higher environmental standards and to raise the level of ambition in climate policy in the future. If it turns out in the future that the agreement will have a negative impact in these respects, our view is that it should be renegotiated. The in-depth impact assessment carried out by the Green Party is interesting and provides some answers that may be worth mentioning. It is the National Board of Trade that has been given this task. Perhaps it is most interesting to look at what is said about investor protection. In this respect, the National Board of Trade has concluded that the CETA agreement's provisions on the right to compensation in the event of indirect expropriation do not, in all material respects, provide any protection that goes beyond the protection already guaranteed to investors investing in Sweden. Investment protection does not affect Sweden's ability to maintain monopolies and utilities. If Sweden has allowed an investment and then introduces or reintroduces a monopoly, this may, under special conditions, form the basis for the liability of the State, as already provided for in Swedish law. However, if the monopoly can be justified by the general good, the risk of having to pay compensation is less. The college considered that the protection of investment had no effect on Sweden's right to regulate in the areas analysed. This is important to remember. The clarification here is that CETA, among other things, will not mean that any Swedish laws need to be amended. In addition to this, I think it is important to emphasise that the rules on what counts as indirect expropriation are rather strict. That's a lot for a state to be liable for. Among other things, there are a number of criteria that need to be met. Is the dispute based on an existing investment? Was the government's measure permanent in time? Did the investor expect the measure? Did the government have an honest purpose? Was the State's measure discriminatory? Was the purpose of the state measure a legitimate public welfare objective? If the purpose was a legitimate public welfare objective, was the measure manifestly excessive? There are therefore a number of criteria that make it much more for a State to be liable for compensation. This is important to remember, and it has responded to some of the objections that have been raised. One can of course choose to be sceptical about the conclusions of the National Board of Trade, but remember that the National Board of Trade is not the only ones who have landed in this conclusion. Here is one of the most important votes that comes from the Chancellor of Justice, who is actually the legal representative of the state: According to the Chancellor of Justice's assessment, the investment protection contained in CETA essentially corresponds to the protection that already exists in other international agreements and conventions that Sweden has taken up in Union law and in Swedish law. So it is not just the National Board of Trade that lands in this conclusion. These answers have been reassuring to us in the Green Party, because we have not wanted an agreement that jeopardises EU law or the democratically made decisions that exist in Sweden and will continue to exist in the future. With this, Mr President, I support the committee's proposal.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-837	Mr President, I would like to With an agreement that has such a clear unilateral trading perspective as CETA, it will be very difficult for countries to develop their environmental and climate legislation. Countries need to have the courage to take the lead in achieving our climate goals, as decided in the Paris Agreement. Instead, the CETA agreement risks becoming a major brake block for the countries' environmental and climate efforts. There are examples of large companies using investor protection in trade agreements to sue states for their environmental policies. For example, in November 2015, the Obama administration in the United States decided to stop a Canadian oil pipeline through the United States as it was expected to lead to increased greenhouse gas emissions. The company that had planned the construction, Trans Canada, responded by suing the Obama administration for billions on the basis of NAFTA's investor protection. Other examples where investor protection has been used to sue states for environmental legislation include the closure of environmentally harmful trade by the Canadian state of Quebec and Ecuador's decision to stop oil extraction in highly sensitive natural areas. The ICS mechanism in CETA operates in a similar way, allowing large companies to over-examine democratically agreed decisions to protect nature or reduce emissions. In addition, the indirect impact of environmental regulations and progressive legislation is added. One example is how Canada has already pressed the EU to soften the classification of fuel from Canadian tar sands. It is therefore a direct consequence of a desire for increased trade between Canada and the EU, which is very likely to lead to greater consumption of dirty fuel in the EU. Several stakeholders have criticised the CETA agreement for the fact that the mining, energy and transport sectors lack wording on sustainability. The French Government has requested a climate veto in the CETA agreement. It calls for clarification in the agreement which states that no company should be able to sue states for measures aimed at halting global warming. No such demand has been heard from the Swedish Government. Why would the CETA agreement be good for the environment, Lorentz Tovatt? Aren't you worried?
i-F3JDoPsufeaFWhiZf7hoSb	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Håkan Svenneling, for the question! As I mentioned, we have had and are concerned about the effects that CETA will have on the environment. That is precisely why we have had the strategy to get sharp wordings on environmental and climate ambitions into the bill. This has simply been our focus as well as getting an in-depth analysis of the effects. The analysis, which I reviewed in my speech, has a number of answers to these questions. Nevertheless, it is quite reassuring when it comes to the possibility of suing states. As I said, it should be quite a lot for a state to be liable for compensation, and I mentioned several of the reasons. However, if we can clearly refer to the common good, which of course is the issue of climate change, it will simply be more difficult to be sued. Many other trade agreements do not have chapters dealing with sustainable development and the environment, but they do have CETA. In this way it can be seen as a step forward in this area.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-845	Mr President, I would like to It's good that Lorentz Tovatt is worried. At the same time, however, he is standing in this Chamber and speaking warmly in favour of the CETA agreement. He also mentioned that he felt that he had listened to the environmental movement and the environmental movement's criticism of the agreement. But I cannot understand which environmental movement he has listened to and which organisation would be in favour of the CETA agreement, for all the environmental organisations with which I have spoken say that they are against the agreement. I can understand that Lorentz is so positive about the CETA agreement, given that as an environmental party it is very tough and difficult to be anything else. His colleague Valter Mutt was first opposed to the agreement when he was a foreign policy spokesperson, but then he was no longer a spokesperson for foreign affairs. But in January of this year, something special happened. Valter Mutt was allowed to return as a foreign policy spokesperson if he was not against the CETA agreement, and so it was. I understand that Valter Mutt has not signed up for this debate in Parliament's Chamber, and I will put a penny in that he will have paid off when it is time for Parliament's vote. I have thought a lot about this and thought about what the environmental party whip really looks like and what medieval instrument of punishment you have as your role model. I'm sure you can count on punishment if you resist. Therefore, I think it is particularly good done by those environmentalists who are still critical of the CETA agreement for its negative effects on the environment and the climate. They are worthy of praise, although the Green Party is far from the unity that we have in the Left Party. I do not understand how the Green Party has been able to conclude that the CETA agreement is good for the environment. It is true that, compared to other trade agreements, there are steps taken in this agreement in the right direction. However, there are many worrying signs for the future that it will help to establish fossil fuels for the future and not achieve the ambitions of the Paris Agreement.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-849	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Håkan Svenneling, for the exchange of words! It is of course fun that Håkan Svenneling has an interest in the environmental party's internal life. I can assure you that we are not using any medieval punishments within our group. I would like to return to the issue itself, which is partly about this agreement, and to broaden the perspective a little. I also think that care should be taken to stare too blindly at this particular means of dealing with climate issues widely. As I began by saying, I think it is a good thing that the countries of the world are dealing with each other to a greater extent than they are doing today. And I believe that a more effective way to deal with climate and environmental challenges globally is through other agreements, which of course should be binding and affect trade agreements. Of course, there should be sharp wording in all trade agreements, and it is also partly in CETA. For example, this government has been very important in concluding global agreements that address these global challenges. After all, we have concluded the Paris Agreement, which is the first globally binding climate agreement ever and which already has a very strong effect on global climate action. This deal could have been better. Now we are here, and there are many other things that can also be done to influence climate and environmental issues globally.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-853	Mr President, I would like to Sweden's prosperity has been built up by people who had ideas, created companies, found solutions and traded with each other and others. It has created jobs in companies that are growing, which creates the conditions for our Swedish welfare. There is no doubt about the Centre Party's ambition to stand up for openness and free trade, to stand up for multilateral regulations. But when we do not get there, we must work towards good bilateral trade agreements. Mr President, I would like to On our tables today we have such a successful trade agreement. It is a rather unique and forward-looking agreement of its kind, a trade agreement between Canada and the EU Member States. I think there is reason to congratulate the European Union on reaching this trade agreement. It also encourages continuation, for new trade agreements that we want to see, for new ones knocking on the door of the European Union to create such orderly relations. Without orderly relations in trading systems, it will be the right of the strong to speak. Sweden is a small state and needs a functioning regulatory framework. We are talking about this in other contexts, and this also applies here. It is also about companies, not least small companies, which must be able to assert themselves on equal terms. Then we must have rules that work and also apply to the case of disputes. This agreement will also mean a lot to Europe's economic development, to jobs on our continent. There is no need to give precise figures, but the assessment is that trade would increase by 24%, which also means more jobs and greater opportunities on our continent. For Sweden, this is estimated to lead to an even more increased trade than that. That, Mr President, is welcome. This is also an important signal from us and from us in this House in times when we see protectionism spreading. You want to build walls. You do not trust the other, you just want to make your own decisions in your own Chamber. Then we must have the courage to build a functioning regulatory framework such as that contained in the CETA agreement. Mr President, I would like to It is fascinating to listen to the debate so far. I could imagine that I was at an election meeting in the United States and listening to those of Trump who pushed the call for trade agreements to be demolished: we should not have trade agreements with Canada. Now we see that you go that way. We also see signals of what this leads to when it comes to jobs and development both in the US and in Canada. There are more of those signals. Here it is welcome that we take steps in the opposite direction and show that we believe in trade in orderly rules and that trade is something that benefits Sweden, Swedish workers, Swedish companies and all of us for the sake of welfare. I also think that there is reason to lift the partnership agreement. It's strategic and important. More of this is needed even in times when many forces want to tear up the order that we have. I know that there are forces in this House too that want to tear up the order that we have and that dislike liberal democracy and want to see an illiberal development. Here too, the strategic partnership agreement is important. It shows that we are building a community with other countries that stand up for our common values: respect for human rights, democratic principles, the rule of law, peace and security. Mr President, I would like to Had this been an EU-Russia trade agreement, I would have been more concerned in several parts. I suspect that the argument would not have sounded quite the same in this House – perhaps changing roles. The fact that we are now working towards an agreement is something that we in the Center Party welcome. As we write in committee, we are also supporting the signals here when it comes to following up the agreement, environmental and climate issues and other elements. It is a development work that we need to take advantage of, too, in the run-up to the agreement. It takes a long time to get there. This agreement started to be made in 2009, and today we are writing 2018. Of course it takes time. The experience of this agreement is important to take into account in the EU's further negotiations on the agreement. We know that there are many people knocking on the door, and we welcome it for a better order globally. Mr President, I would like to In doing so, I propose rejecting the proposal for referral back and approving the committee's proposal in the report. I therefore support both CETA and the Strategic Partnership Agreement.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-866	Mr President, I would like to I have never been to an election meeting in the United States, but I would say that Kerstin Lundgren has made quite a mistake about the criticism that I am making of this trade agreement. We are not against a trade agreement with Canada. We are in favour of having such an agreement, and we are even in favour of the strategic partnership agreement that we are to decide on today. But we are very clear in our criticism and about why we think the agreement is wrong. This means that there are huge differences between what Donald Trump says about trade policy and what I say about it. Kerstin Lundgren, on the other hand, is very positive about the agreement and guesses that it can increase trade by 24 percent. At the same time, we know that the CETA agreement will have a major impact on agriculture. It is about cooperation on sanitary and physiosanitary measures, so-called SPS measures. It is also a question of greatly increased tariff quotas for Canadian meat, i.e. allowing more meat to be exported to the EU. With the agreement, the EU is incurring a 93.5 % reduction in customs duties on all agricultural products. However, some goods retain customs duties, but the quota increases significantly. Both the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate have expressed concern about how this can affect Sweden. The view on animal welfare and the use of antibiotics are two factors that clearly distinguish Canada and the EU. Like the US, Canada's legislation is largely based on voluntary animal welfare initiatives. There is no national animal welfare legislation. It is permitted to use growth hormones, and that use is very widespread. Antibiotic use is high even for healthy animals. There is also a different view of GMO crops. It may be that countries with good animal welfare and strong regulations are being put against hormone-treated meat, which could put pressure on Swedish legislation to lower animal welfare standards. I wonder how Kerstin Lundgren views these dangers with the CETA agreement for Swedish agriculture.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-873	Mr President, I would like to We are engaged in a business where there are many dangers. We can choose to see it as an obstacle to action in the future. We on our part see opportunities to include Canada in a development similar to that in Europe. This is part of the discussions and part of what is important in the broad work of working together to create the conditions for more sustainable development, here with us but also in Canada. It is part of setting common standards that affect, and it is important in a global environment that we can build this kind of regulatory framework. It provides conditions for us and for Canada. It also affects other trade agreements.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-875	Mr President, I would like to It is good that Kerstin Lundgren sees opportunities that apparently seem to be great. The problem when you look at the common standards is that today, in the field of agriculture, we are very far apart from each other in terms of legislation and animal welfare. Then the question is: What are we going to compromise with when we in Sweden have had grazing requirements for the animals to go out? Canada also has a high level of antibiotic use for healthy animals. Growth hormones are used during the rearing of animals. The question for me is: what is the common norm in between? After all, it is obvious that we are a long way from each other. However, now that the EU is opening the way for Canadian food products to come to the EU to a greater extent and when there is a discussion about passing on GMO products together with Canada, it may be that you are far removed from each other. This puts pressure on Swedish legislation in a direction that we do not want. I wonder what opportunity Kerstin Lundgren sees before him when it comes to strengthening Swedish animal welfare when the Canadians have a completely different development.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-878	Mr President, I would like to I also see great opportunities for the EU and for Swedish agriculture in terms of contacts with Canada. A market is opening up and it creates opportunities for more people to choose alternative methods. This is important and is one of the starting points. We can achieve more if we do something together and have discussions. Through the Strategic Partnership Agreement and the common norm package in CETA, we have created a prerequisite for working together to solve issues such as this. I am not afraid of Canada or of opening up the European Union. I want to see fewer tolls, not more. I do not want to go a way forward in seeking solutions in higher walls, higher tariffs and less common trade. Our position is rather the opposite.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-880	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating an economic partnership agreement between the EU and its Member States and Canada. The European Council decided in April 2009 to give the Commission the green light to open negotiations for an economic integration agreement between Canada and the EU. The negotiations started in June 2009 and lasted for five years. Subsequently, negotiations on the investment chapter of the agreement continued. The final text of the agreement was published on 29 February 2016. One year later, the European Parliament approved the CETA Agreement. Today, another year later, the Swedish Government has also thought through and the agreement has landed in this House. The MEPs of the Green Party today write on Svenska Dagbladet's debate page that the decision should be postponed. The Christian Democrats do not share that view. The agreement has been carefully analysed, and with the vote of the Parliament, as the committee also stresses in the report, an important signal is sent out of the great importance the EU Member States and the EU attach to openness and free trade. Mr President, I would like to This is particularly important in view of the time we live in. It is a time when opposition to openness and free trade have flared up considerably. According to the World Trade Organisation, the WTO, protectionism in the world is increasing and has done so over the last decade. Sweden, as the world has developed, must dare to stand up for and be a guarantor of free and fair trade. Unfortunately, the world seems to have forgotten the lesson of the 1930s when tariffs in the United States contributed to crisis in the world economy. Nor does the experience of 2002, when George W Bush introduced steel tariffs, seem to have had any impact on Trump and other protectionists. At that time, each individual job that they managed to save in the steel industry cost more than SEK 3 million annually. We see similar movements here in Europe. Major protests in Germany and Belgium, among others, against CETA, which we are debating today, and the planned TTIP agreement with the US have focused on questioning free trade here too. Christian Democrat Angela Merkel put it this way in her speech at the CDU Parteitag in Essen just over a year ago: These words should lead to reflection in this House too. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats welcome the fact that today we are in the process of deciding on the most comprehensive free trade agreement that the EU has negotiated so far. It has taken time, and complex agreements must also take time. However, the fact that an agreement with a like-minded democracy such as Canada encounters such strong opposition nevertheless raises some concern about where we are going. Sweden is an export-dependent country that benefits from increased trade with the rest of the world. Free trade is and will continue to be a cornerstone of the EU's relations with the rest of the world. This may seem obvious, but developments in the world point to the opposite. It is hoped that the ratification of CETA will also accelerate the TTIP agreement. Foreign trade, Mr President, creates deeper relations between countries, which increases understanding and solidarity and thus also helps to prevent conflicts. I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report. The option of not ratifying the agreement will not lead to greater transparency. Nor will it lead to more jobs, but rather hinder development and risk increasing differences in rules and standards between the EU and its surrounding world. If the EU builds barriers to the outside world, we lose competitiveness, and this would damage Sweden's development.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-889	Mr President, I would like to Sweden and the world need more free trade, not less. Therefore, in these times when the winds of protectionism are blowing harder than in a long time, it is particularly pleasing to stand here today in this House debating a modern and progressive trade agreement between the EU and Canada, CETA. It is becoming increasingly important for our companies to act with the whole world as a market. The market conditions have changed for both consumers and companies, and Sweden's dependence on the outside world is increasing. Sweden's great openness to the outside world requires good trading conditions. Studies show that 90% of the world's growth will take place outside Europe's borders within the next ten years. That is why this agreement is more than welcome, and it will be important not only for Sweden but for the competitiveness of the EU as a whole. In fact, this is one of the best agreements that we in the European Union have negotiated. It is also about our relations with a very similar-minded country with which Sweden already has very good relations, namely Canada. The proposal concerns two agreements between the EU and its Member States and Canada. The first is the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement, the CETA Agreement. The second is the Strategic Partnership Agreement, which includes general commitments and which develops cooperation and political dialogue with Canada in a number of important areas, such as international peace and security, the promotion of human rights, sustainable development and judicial cooperation. The CETA negotiations started in June 2009. In October 2017, the Agreement was signed. Parts of the Agreement have been provisionally applied since 21 September 2017. So far, seven EU Member States – Latvia, Denmark, Malta, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Estonia and Spain – have notified the European Commission that they have ratified CETA. If Parliament decides in plenary today or tomorrow, Sweden will be the eighth country of the EU's 28 member states to support CETA. CETA is a modern and progressive trade and investment agreement that will deepen the economic and trade relationship between the EU and Canada. It's a modern deal. It takes into account trends in international trade, such as the increasing importance of global value chains and growing trade in services. This can be done by the fact that the agreement is comprehensive and not only relates to customs facilitation but also to technical barriers to trade, customs and trade procedures, intellectual property, investment and investment protection and voluntary regulatory cooperation. The agreement is progressive, as it concerns rules on trade and sustainable development and work. Mr President, I would like to For our companies, the CETA agreement is welcome and requested. Although Canada is the world's tenth largest economy, it is only Sweden's 24th largest trading partner. There's potential here. The CETA agreement will increase trade. We notice an increased interest from both small and large companies to trade with and invest in Canada. More than 100 Canadian subsidiaries employ 13 000 people in Sweden. Global competitive pressure is increasing while Swedish industry is becoming increasingly intertwined in global value chains and knowledge networks. This applies to both large and small businesses in cities as well as in rural areas. This shows over 2,300 exporting companies in Sweden exporting to Canada. About 21 000 jobs are created in Sweden through our exports to Canada today. Sweden and Swedish companies have a good reputation in Canada, and Swedish companies show great interest in Canada as a market. The agreement has great potential for Swedish companies, and there is a great deal of interest in Canada. The number of companies registered to benefit from the lower duties has more than tripled – from 75 to 260 – since the provisional entry into force of the Agreement in September. The agreement thus abolishes customs duties on goods and reduces barriers to trade. This means a completely new market opening that benefits companies, especially small companies that cannot afford to adapt their production to different markets. The opportunities are increasing for Swedish companies to participate in the Canadian public procurement. Mr President, I would like to In my role as Minister of Trade, I regularly meet entrepreneurs who see opportunities, dare to think big and can take the step beyond our borders to be competitive in international markets. Here it is clear that the CETA agreement will have immediate effects on Swedish export companies, large and small, in a number of industries. One example is Woolpower. It is a family-owned, growing company with around a hundred employees. The company's export is a prerequisite for maintaining all production in Östersund. The agreement abolishes the 18% tariffs on their underwear and reinforcement clothing and makes them more competitive. Another example is the company Babybjörn, which manufactures child carrier harnesses and operates on the world market by exporting 60% of production to over 50 countries. This company saves 20% in customs duties now that they can export more to Canada. But CETA is at least as important for our importing companies and our consumers. There are many examples here too. CETA means for a larger Swedish agricultural cooperative savings of SEK 2 million in import duties every time they import the plastic film used for straw bales. The company Garden & Greenhouse in Östergötland imports glass houses and saves up to 10 000 SEK per delivery when importing glass houses. In terms of sustainable development, the environment and work, the provisions of the Agreement link it with the EU's overall sustainable development objectives and specific objectives in terms of labour, environment and climate change. In the social field, the parties have agreed that the agreement should not lead to a reduction in labour standards. Instead, it should work towards raising standards and actively work to implement the ILO acquis. All the requirements of the current legislation on labour and social protection continue to apply. This also includes rules on the right to strike and the possibility of negotiating collective agreements. CETA expressly states that wage dumping is rejected. Regarding environmental issues in CETA, the importance of multilateral environmental agreements and mutual support between trade, environmental policy, rules and measures is emphasised. Environmental legislation should not be disregarded in order to promote trade or investment. The right to regulate and also to increase protection in these areas is something that Canada and the EU have consistently agreed on. This is also inscribed in the agreement. CETA therefore does not prevent us from pursuing a progressive policy that puts people and the environment first. Mr President, I would like to The Government analyses whether there is a need for national regulations to implement CETA in Sweden. In particular, national provisions may need to be decided upon with a view to the entry into force of the CETA Agreement, as happens when Canada, all EU Member States and the EU have ratified the Agreement. To the extent that this is needed at a low level, the government will return to the Riksdag on this matter. The Government will monitor the impact and impact of the agreement in terms of the parties' ability to set higher environmental standards than today and raise the level of ambition in climate policy. We will also push for the involvement of civil society, both in future negotiations and in terms of implementation and more and the entry into force of agreements. As I said, I am pleased that the Government is presenting this proposal to Parliament. It has been a long road and hard work along the way. It has created a more powerful Europe on the global stage. CETA is part of a new modern generation of trade agreements aimed at improving market access and creating rules that are clear, transparent and predictable while promoting sustainable development where the environment and work are at the centre. This will stimulate both new technologies and new business models. It can't be better. I am absolutely convinced that the CETA agreement will show results. More companies will have good business opportunities and access to a new market on good and fair terms. It will pave the way for higher growth and more jobs. Sweden has a long tradition of free trade and openness. We know it builds the country strong. We also show that free trade, security and sustainable development go hand in hand. That is what we call the Swedish model, Mr President.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-914	Mr President, I would like to Minister of Trade Ann Linde is today presenting a proposal for the CETA agreement. I think it is good that she is here to defend it and answer questions, as there are many questions about the bill. On p. 36 in the bill, the Government writes: My question is how can the government come to this conclusion when there is a great risk that Sweden as a country will be sued by a large company? As tariffs fall, EU revenues will also decrease. My idea is how to compensate for this income. Are Swedish taxpayers responsible for these costs? The court system that is being set up also costs money. How will it be paid? Why are there no calculations of Sweden's costs reported in the bill? Is it not clear to Minister Linde that the CETA agreement will have negative fiscal effects? Mr President, I would like to Two weeks ago, the European Court of Justice ruled on the dispute settlement mechanism in the trade agreements between Slovakia and the Netherlands, which the European Court of Justice considered to be contrary to EU law. The Court of Justice has also previously rejected the EU's trade agreement with Morocco, which included illegally occupied territory in Western Sahara, and the Singapore Agreement which contained elements of national competence. How does the Minister of Trade know that the CETA agreement is not contrary to EU law? How sure can you be of that? Wouldn't it be better if this were investigated instead of the agreement being passed now that this is unclear? The court's decision on the CETA dispute settlement mechanism is expected later this year, and several countries have decided to wait. Shouldn't Sweden do the same?
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-921	Mr President, I would like to The first thing I want to say about the question of the financial impact of the state is that it says about this in the factual memo that the government has sent to the Riksdag but which Håkan Svenneling may not have read. I would like to emphasise that the important thing is the impact on the economy as a whole. There we can know from the other free trade agreements how much extra growth and how much extra work it is. One example is the South Korea agreement, which has resulted in an increase of 70% in exports to South Korea. It is therefore undeniable that these trade agreements have very significant positive socio-economic effects. As stated earlier in its fact memo to the Riksdag, the Government announced to the Riksdag that the impact on the expenditure side of Sweden's budget will be calculated as there will be a loss of revenue in customs duties on the EU budget. Based on the current Swedish funding component, this means an estimated annual increase of approximately SEK 90 million in the Swedish EU contribution. Håkan Svenneling could read it before. Regarding the question of possible future damages if Sweden would breach the investment protection rules in the agreement, it has not been addressed in the bill. The reason for this is that the government obviously does not intend to violate the fundamental principles of law expressed in the agreement. Therefore, there is also no basis for reporting negative fiscal consequences. Having said that, I do not think that the issue of reducing customs revenues or the risk of damages captures the economic aspects. As I said at the beginning: This will have good positive effects for Sweden's economy as a whole.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-926	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister very much for his answer. It is quite right that I have missed this fact memo. There are many facts that come to Parliament, and that is exactly what I have missed. It is a good thing to account for the SEK 90 million that customs duties are reduced by. What remains is the question of damages in the event of proceedings. It is a good entrance on the part of the government not to want to break agreements. I think that is fundamentally healthy. The problem in this case is that many large companies still have the ambition to sue Sweden as a country to press our legislation in the direction they want. You're willing to take costs sometimes. Sometimes there are even third parties who are prepared to take costs because they see that there is revenue to be made on this type of lawsuit. There are some mechanisms in the CETA agreement that will make this type of lawsuit more difficult, but it is still the case that through this agreement we are opening up lawsuits from large companies against Sweden as a country in a completely new way. We know that Canada is one of the countries where the most lawsuits take place, and that is why there is great concern. In my speech, I pointed out that the mining industry is an area where we will probably see moods and that the Swedish rules around the Swedish mining industry need to be developed and improved. However, with the CETA agreement in place, those changes will be very difficult to implement. I also noted that, in its response to me, the Government did not answer the question of the decision of the European Court of Justice. I understand that this is relatively new matter for all of us because it has only been two weeks since the verdict came, but it is clear that it will have an impact on both the CETA agreement and other trade agreements that Sweden already has. I intend to return to the Council of State with a written question on this, but it would nevertheless be interesting to hear what the Council of State's opinion is on the judgment of the European Court of Justice and its impact. Is everything really clear? Can we really make decisions? Would it not be wiser to refer this back to the Committee on Foreign Affairs?
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-933	Mr President, I would like to I'll take the last question first, or I won't be able to. The Government has thoroughly examined the question of what the Court has said and concluded that there is no basis for the concerns expressed in Belgium's request. The judgment in that case, known as Achmea, does not alter that assessment. This is due to the situation of investment protection agreements between EU countries and CETA and the new court, called ICS. It differs in several ways, but above all on one crucial point: In the Achmea case, the Court of Justice found that the Slovak-Dutch Investment Protection Agreement meant that an arbitration tribunal under the agreement would interpret and apply EU law in a way that was not compatible with Union law. CETA states that a tribunal under this Agreement shall not have jurisdiction to interpret EU law. It is further stated that the CETA tribunal shall be obliged to comply with the advisory interpretation of EU law. Investor protection has, of course, been a controversial issue in the debate. That's why we've looked into it this closely. The second question was more about the investment agreement itself. It is one of the issues that the government has investigated most. It is about investment protection providing an investor with basic protection against discrimination and expropriation. What is stated in CETA is largely in line with Swedish law, and that is no longer possible. It is a protection that already exists today; it means both the National Board of Trade and the Chancellor of Justice. The dispute resolution mechanism cannot, therefore, reject laws or decisions that have been democratically taken.
i-TeGfbfn5VxM71FYnFgCEw2	Mr President, I would like to We are debating Economic and Trade Agreements ( CETA) and Strategic Partnership Agreements between the EU and its Member States and Canada. The CETA agreement is not a simple trade agreement. Had it been the case that the CETA agreement had been aimed at removing a few duties and tariffs and making it even easier to trade across the Atlantic, we in the Left Party would have thought it was a good proposal. But now the C in CETA stands for comprehensive. It is thus an all-embracing economic agreement between the EU and Canada. One could say that it is an agreement that has very great claims. It will cover almost all our policies. We have heard in some previous speeches, for example from the Green Party's Lorentz Tovatt– which I do not see in this House; I think that is a little strange – and from Minister Ann Linde, that there are positive wordings in the CETA agreement on the importance of increased political cooperation in, for example, the environment. It's important. What is less talked about is that the CETA agreement provides for further liberalisation, that it has the ambition that the whole transatlantic area should be opened up to public procurement, that in cap. 21 states that there should be a form of regulatory cooperation between Canada and the EU and EU Member States, and not least the controversial investor protection enshrined in the agreement. For this reason, we in the Left Party are critical of this agreement and are calling for a rejection of CETA. I would like to begin by calling for our reservation to be accepted on this point, reservation No 1. Mr President, I will not be able to go into all our criticisms of the CETA agreement. Much has been mentioned exemplaryly by the previous speaker from the Left Party, Håkan Svenneling, but I would like to say a few things about the areas I have raised. I start with investor protection, which you find developed mainly in cap. 8 of the CETA Agreement. Investor protection should provide investors, i.e. companies, with guarantees that their investments will bear fruit. Otherwise, one might think that the definition of an investment is that someone is taking a certain risk of obtaining currency for it in the future. However, the investor protection included in this agreement states, for example, that the companies should be protected against direct or indirect expropriation. I think it is deliberately formulated as direct or indirect expropriation – because it will be difficult to define exactly what it is. It is also said that companies should have fair and equitable treatment. There are a number of other criteria for how to build up investor protection. There is really nothing new about investor protection in international trade and investor agreements. It already exists in a variety of other agreements. I think perhaps the best and most comparable example is the NAFTA agreement between the USA, Canada and Mexico, which was concluded in 1994. Following the NAFTA agreement, we can see that Canada has become the most likely country in the world. American companies have taken every chance to sue Canadian lawmakers, particularly in the field of the environment and natural resources. Håkan Svenneling mentioned earlier Lone Pine Resources, who sued Canada when the state of Quebec introduced a regional ban on fracturing, i.e. blasting gas from the bedrock. It is an extremely environmentally harmful activity. As mentioned earlier, Canadian companies have also sued the US government; for example, Transcanada has sued the Obama government's decision to stop the great pipeline XL, which would go through the United States. We should also remember that Canadian companies have learned about investor protection. They have learned very well how the investor tribunals work, and they do not hesitate to sue European countries if they can. For example, the Canadian mining company Gabriel Resources did this: Romania was sued a number of years ago when the Romanian Parliament refused to allow Gabriel Resources to open a large gold mine in western Romania. I believe that Romania has now even classified the area as a protected area. Romania has been sued for the equivalent of SEK 40 billion. SEK 40 billion corresponds to half of Romania's entire health budget. This can be borne in mind when Romania says it cannot afford to take care of its poor people, and these people instead go to other countries to beg and do underpaid jobs. The Government Ann Linde says that with the CETA agreement we get a completely different approach and a completely different form of investor protection. I would like to ask the supporters of CETA what is really the big difference with the new investor protection in this agreement. You get a permanent court with 15 judges, but otherwise most of it is actually very similar to the current system we can see for investor protection in other agreements. It is a system that is completely outside the ordinary legal system, and one can sue on fluffy and unclear grounds. It is also, Lorentz Tovatt and others, only companies that can sue states. The states can't in reverse sue the corporations. I heard you talking about the fine wording that exists about the environment and climate in the CETA agreement and in the partnership agreement that is linked to this, Lorentz. These are very fine formulations, but what is their bearing capacity? Can we lean on those wordings and conversely sue companies that we believe are misbehaving towards the environment with regard to investor protection? No, it's not possible. It's just companies that can sue states. Ann Linde from the Social Democrats and Lorentz Tovatt from the Green Party say that this investor protection does not go beyond what is in our laws today. I would like to turn the question around a little bit. What's wrong with our regular judiciary today? Is it not the case that the EU, its Member States and Canada are the rule of law with functioning judicial systems to which one can turn if one as a company considers oneself badly treated by the state? You say in this agreement that it is incredibly important to trust Canadian authorities in other contexts, for example when it comes to the approval of various things that are going on the market. But just when it comes to the courts, we're going to have a separate corporate court system. Why, Lorentz Tovatt? I would also like to ask the Green Party and the Social Democrats: do you really believe in the utmost seriousness that Canadian mining companies will not take advantage of the chance to sue Sweden if, for example, we ban mining in certain areas or impose a mining tax of 10 % – something that the companies might judge as direct or indirect expropriation? Do you really seriously believe that investor protection cannot have a cooling effect on progressive legislation? Mr President, I would like to I would also like to say a few words about the so-called regulatory cooperation enshrined in Article 21 of the CETA Agreement. It may sound very good to cooperate on future rules and laws, but as the regulatory cooperation is designed, there should be committees within the framework of the CETA agreement that will examine proposals for new laws in advance. They shall examine the proposals from a trade perspective. Do the Green Party and the Social Democrats really believe that this regulatory cooperation will be used to strengthen, for example, labour law, environmental protection, welfare or other areas? The companies will have an obvious place in these regulatory cooperation committees, which will review all future legislation. Those of you who have read the proposal can also take note of the views of both the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency on the regulatory cooperation. It is clearly warned that this may hamper future progressive legislation. Or, as they say in North America: This will be about paralyzing by analyzing – through demands for new analyses and new reports, progressive legislation will stop. In the time we live in, we need more progressive legislation. We need to make it easier to legislate in, for example, the environment – not more difficult. We in the Left Party also see many other reasons to say no to CETA. Håkan Svenneling of the Left Party referred earlier to the fact that deregulation is, as it were, the main rule of CETA and that it is extremely difficult to renationalise something that has already been privatised when there is a so-called ratchet clause in the agreement. It is also very unfortunate that the wording on patents and intellectual property – a very forgotten issue in the debate, I would say – goes much further than today's legislation in the EU and Canada. For example, the EU has been a driving force for extending the licence period for medicines, which will make the development of generic medicines more difficult. So it is medicines without patents that are cheaper for the population. It will also be more difficult to impose progressive requirements in public procurement when public procurement is to become part of a transatlantic market. I am also concerned about how we can carry out progressive animal protection in the future. Earlier today, I listened to the Chairman of Animal Justice Camilla Björkbom, who warned against the CETA agreement. It puts competition first and predicts that cross-border trade in beef will be tenfold, which will be a downward pressure on progressive legislation. It will be difficult for countries that want to take the lead in the field of animal welfare. This is Animal Justice's assessment of the CETA agreement. Mr President, I would like to Why does the European and North American environmental and trade union movements as well as animal rights organisations in Europe and Canada say no to CETA? I think it's as simple as they don't want a straitjacket on progressive politics. They want us to be able to take the lead in all these important policy areas. That's why we in the Left Party say no to CETA. I would also like to take this opportunity to support Mr Svenneling's and the Left Party's proposal to refer this matter back to committee. The judgment that came to the European Court of Justice two weeks ago is quite exceptional. It condemns investor protection between different EU countries – the same kind of investor protection that is now included in the CETA agreement. That is why we in the Left Party say: send the agreement back to committee so that we can analyse the verdict more closely! I apologise for having gone over time, Mr President, but this is a very important issue.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-964	Mr President, I would like to The industrial companies have long been the engine of Swedish business and a crucial wealth creator for Sweden. Swedish companies have successfully exported high-quality and innovative products worldwide. Many Swedish companies currently hold key positions in global value chains and industrial ecosystems. This is how the Chief Economist at Business Sweden begins his latest report The Service Revolution. I think it's a accurate description of the situation. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, protectionism is reaping success in some places. One example, of course, is President Trumps's recent decision to introduce new customs duties. The OECD has made it quite clear that countries that close their markets are losing more in growth than the countries with which they stop trading. It is wise and forward-looking that the EU should instead move forward with new, broad trade agreements. For our companies to continue to develop and increase their exports, we need progressive and wise free trade agreements. CETA is the best free trade agreement the EU has negotiated so far, and I hope that it will be an important benchmark in trade policy. All future trade agreements should keep CETA's level or be even better. Mr President, I would like to Given the scepticism that exists in some circles towards free trade agreements, even here in Parliament, it feels safe and good with the investigations that the National Board of Trade has done together with several other authorities. Broad Free Trade Agreements provide clarity, long-termness and predictability. Broad free trade agreements also require scrutiny by the eyes of many and with the expertise of many, not least civil society organisations. This knowledge is part of the investigation that has been carried out, and it is important experience to take on board in the work on future trade agreements. I therefore find the criticism of the Alliance parties that it has taken too long to bring CETA to Parliament completely unjustified. It is important to take the concerns seriously, to allow many bodies to express their views and to analyse the consequences of the agreement. Anything else would be irresponsible. Based on this report, with referrals and analyses, we can now rightly say that CETA will not force us to privatise welfare, companies will not be able to sue the Swedish state for loss of profit and we do not need to impair our legislation regarding animal, environmental or health protection. Thank you, Kommerskollegium, for that! However, it is important to follow up that CETA does not have such effects that it prevents the parties from promoting even higher environmental requirements or even higher levels of ambition in climate policy in the future. That is why the effects of the agreement will be analysed, and that is a good thing. We already have 60 investment protection agreements. They have not allowed us to tighten up environmental legislation. It is the Swedish Parliament that decides which rules and laws should apply in Sweden. On the other hand, CETA, as well as other progressive FTAs, can contribute to Sweden's greater achievement of the objectives of Agenda 2030. We will never meet the sustainability goals there unless we help the private sector to do its part. Therefore, the floors contained in the CETA agreement are of the utmost importance in order to achieve better development within all sustainability dimensions. I want to give Håkan Svenneling the right point, namely that it is not possible to say with certainty how many new jobs will be created once CETA has entered into force in all parts. However, as Minister Linde said, we know that trade is always increasing after a new free trade agreement. We know that this has already happened with exports to Canada, and we know that increased exports lead to more jobs. We need more jobs and increased employment in Sweden in order to secure welfare even more. Mr President, I would like to Earlier this week I visited a steel company in Fagersta. There the CEO was very concerned about the new American steel tariffs and what they would mean for their sales in the United States. But when he heard about CETA, which will be decided here tomorrow, he immediately saw an opportunity to expand his market in Canada instead. I think there are many examples of operations around Sweden that will benefit from CETA. To argue that CETA would restrict democratic decisions or that it will now be large companies that run it is completely wrong. The National Board of Trade has analysed this very thoroughly, in accordance with the Government's mandate, and estimates that CETA does not in all material respects provide additional investment protection beyond what is already being given to investors, just as Minister Linde has previously said. This conclusion is shared by the Chancellor of Justice, who is, of course, Sweden's expert authority in relation to damages against the state. Mr President, I would like to We have certainly read and heard speeches from critics who claim that the limitation of profits in welfare proposed by us Social Democrats would violate the CETA articles on fair and equitable treatment. Let me be clear: there is nothing in the agreement that gives companies the right to sue states for loss of profit. The threat of profit limitation is the policy of the alliance parties and the Swedish Democrats, not CETA. The National Board of Trade considered that CETA's regulations do not affect Sweden's ability to maintain monopolies or utilities. Mr President, I would like to Trade contributes to growth, prosperity and poverty reduction. Trade contributes to more cooperation and peace. Trade contributes to upskilling, specialisation and pride. I think it is a pity that people who normally turn their backs on these good values speak and write unsound and, in some cases, completely untrue about what CETA means and will have consequences. Fortunately, we have superprofessional authorities that have analysed, discussed and investigated in every possible way the consequences of this agreement. It is incomprehensible to me that we do not have confidence in our leading experts in the field and that we do not listen to what the Chancellor of Justice says. Of course, we can wish for even more of future free trade agreements. I do. But let me return to my introduction: Companies that are growing and developing are a prerequisite for us to be able to increase employment further and to move forward and strengthen our common well-being. Companies are also an important sector in order to increase the sustainability of society, from all dimensions. Both of these elements will be facilitated by the CETA agreement. I therefore call for the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-982	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put two questions to Åsa Eriksson, the Social Democrats. Åsa Eriksson says that the investor protection that exists today within CETA does not go beyond Swedish legislation today. But we can look at examples from the outside world. Then we see that when you enter investor protection, it will also be used. The point is that today we have no investor protection in relation to Canada. But Canada got it in the USA in 1994 and has since been sued 35 times. It has become the most tuned industrial state in the world. I have to ask Åsa Eriksson and the Social Democrats: What is wrong with the ordinary judicial system? Why should you build a parallel justice system for the companies? Why can't workers, environmental organizations and others sue the companies? Why is it only the companies that are going to sue? My second question concerns the extended license periods for medicines, which, according to Canadian researchers, will lead to medicines being locked into patents for a further 383 days and costing many hundred million extra dollars for Canadian taxpayers. The problem will be exactly the same for us in Europe. Why are you in favour of extending the license periods for medicinal products? I note, Madam President, that Åsa Eriksson may reach Business Sweden to find support for CETA, but perhaps that is what the Social Democrats want. Perhaps you do not want us to be able to lead the way in the environmental field or create order in welfare with re-regulation in certain areas. What do the Social Democrats really want?
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-986	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for letting me continue to talk about this, which is so close to my heart! No, I don't need to go to Business Sweden to get support for CETA. It is about giving a picture of how important Swedish entrepreneurship is for Sweden's development, Swedish welfare and Swedish prosperity. It's really important. As far as investment protection is concerned, as I said earlier, and as the Government said, it is essentially just like the investor protection that we already have today. I don't see any reason why we shouldn't. We will give the same conditions to Canadian companies as to Swedish companies or other companies investing in Sweden. I can't see we're gonna make a difference. That is what this is all about. Then there was why states are not allowed to sue companies. I think that is what Jens Holm said, Madam President.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-989	It is about providing companies with predictability in what will apply if a major investment is to be made. I think that is perfectly reasonable. The rest of us have to comply with the usual legislation. We have laws and rules. We have a lot of laws that we decide here in the Swedish Parliament. They apply to everyone. If you break them, it'll be the usual way. If a crime is committed, you have to deal with it accordingly. With regard to patent protection and the extended license period, I cannot reply. I don't know.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-992	Madam President, I would like I think Åsa Eriksson said something very interesting: For the rest of us the ordinary legislation applies. For the rest of us, for ordinary people, for trade unions, for environmental organisations and for governments, ordinary legislation applies. But for the companies, special tribunals are to be set up, where they can sue states that take precedence over the environment and that take precedence over welfare. Why, Åsa Eriksson, do the Social Democrats want special corporate courts? Why isn't the ordinary justice system working? Are not Sweden, the EU Member States and Canada the rule of law? I note what it is like in several other trade agreements that the EU is currently negotiating, such as the Mercosur Agreement with the Mercosur countries Brazil, Uruguay, Argentina and so on. I also believe that this is the case with Australia and New Zealand and the agreements they negotiate with them. There is no investor protection in it, because those countries do not want investor protection. And you know what, Åsa Eriksson, it is perfectly possible to create trade agreements with those countries without investor protection. Therefore, I have to ask again: why should companies have special investor tribunals that only they can use? Answer it!
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-995	Madam President, I would like I'd be more than happy to. It is about companies having the courage to invest in our country and Swedish companies having the courage to invest in Canada. If we dramatically change our legislation so that we completely erase the value of an investment made by more than 90% and it is not for the public good, I think companies should be allowed to sue the state– yes. That is exactly what this investor protection is all about. But as long as we can show that the regulatory changes that we want to make are for the public good and that they are not so extensive that more than 90% of the value is erased, there is nothing that enables the company to sue the state. But it is a question of providing companies with predictability. If they are to make major investments, as we want companies to do in terms of our growth, we must also provide predictability and transparency about what applies. Yes, Sweden is a rule of law. Here you can rely on the laws and regulations that we make and the legal system that we have. Nevertheless, there must be predictability for companies. You have to know what happens if the legislator is another tomorrow.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-997	Madam President, I would like Five years ago, the Swedish Parliament was to approve the free trade agreement between the EU and South Korea. It was an agreement which subsequently proved to open up trade and new opportunities for the 29 countries concerned. It was an agreement that, when it was to be sanctioned, did not attract much attention. When it came time for debate in this House, the list of speakers was short. In this speaker's chair, I was alone in the debate with only the President as a listener. If it was due to lack of interest or because the question was so obvious that it did not need to be discussed, others may answer. However, times change. Today we are discussing the EU-Canada trade agreement. Canada is one of the most peaceful and kind nations on this earth. But all of a sudden, this trade agreement thing has become very interesting. The list of speakers is well-filled. Let us therefore put this trade agreement in a broader context. Let's look a few years back in time. Madam President, I would like In the run-up to the final phase of President Obamas's final term of office, the EU as well as the US made great efforts to try to complete negotiations on the EU-US free trade agreement. But it was not without problems on either side. On the horizon, one saw the risk that a protectionist president would rule the United States. It was a prophecy that proved true. On the European continent, the obstacles were quite different. The united European left, well driven by doctrinal green forces, saw anything but opportunities for trade to open up along the two coasts of the North Atlantic. Most of the stuff around TTIP that could be black painted was sprinkled by this left with thick wide brush strokes. The scare tactics were picked up, where companies that sue states, animal welfare that is destroyed and antibiotics packed meat were some dramaturgically well-arranged threats that were painted. All the good things with which trade and the market economy built Western welfare would be blackened and destroyed. Left-wing tactics succeeded when the free trade agreement could never be signed in time. Now that it is time for Sweden to sanction the CETA agreement between Canada and the EU, the left-wing green forces are again howling about all the horrors of the world that will affect us in the event of the agreement's entry into force. Once again, it is painted that for smaller companies the necessary investment protection would be a threat to democracy, and the antibiotic card is always ready to be picked up. The only thing left-wing forces don't care about is taking responsibility for the consequences of their fear propaganda. The consequences ultimately affect ordinary citizens in all the countries concerned – citizens who lose out on new jobs and goods that are becoming cheaper. The terror propaganda against TTIP did not fully convince the people of Europe but did so much damage. The EU-US negotiations were delayed as new alleged threats were to be investigated, or as someone said earlier in the debate: paralyzing by analyzing. Over and over again, time after time, it would be investigated and delayed. Finally, time ran out, and into the White House moved a protectionist who really does not like free trade, a protectionist who is now in the process of running a trade war between the parties who, if all went well, would have concluded the free trade agreement that gave 900 million people increased trade, lower prices and more jobs. Thank you for that, left! Even the rest of the world would have felt good about this, but instead the world had a potential trade war that could have been avoided. Madam President, I would like Responsibility rests heavily on the shoulders of this left and doctrinal green forces. Therefore, may this story not be repeated with regard to the CETA agreement between the EU and Canada! Now more than ever, the world needs openness, understanding and tolerance. Then the world's good forces must be able to take further steps forward in peaceful and developing cooperation. The EU-Canada CETA Trade Agreement was signed in October 2016. In February 2017, the European Parliament approved the agreement. This agreement is important for Sweden and for Swedish companies, and it is therefore in the Swedish interest that the agreement be implemented as quickly as possible. We Moderates believe that Sweden, as a strong advocate of free trade and trade agreements, should already have approved the agreement. Then the important political signal for openness and free trade and for Sweden to take the lead in this process of the agreement had become even more powerful, as is needed in times of increasing protectionism. The Left and also parts of the Green Party have wanted to prolong this process for mixed reasons. With new assignments to the National Board of Trade, it has managed to delay the possibility for the Swedish parliament to approve the comprehensive agreement on economics and trade between Canada and the EU in time. When the arguments don't bite, delaying and delaying working methods. Madam President, I would like We Moderates believe that the government should have resisted this agenda and been able to submit a bill on CETA to the Riksdag much earlier. But here we are, and that's good. Thank you for not delaying this any longer! This free trade agreement is so needed when there is a lack of trust in the world. That lack of trust has formed a scepticism against the values that build and have built our welfare. That is why we see Brexit, and that is why we see doubts between the USA and the Pacific as regards their trade agreements. The CETA agreement is basically one of the most modern and forward-looking free trade agreements that have been negotiated. It strengthens the ties across the Atlantic even more. That is why, Madam President, I support the proposal that the Parliament approve the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement, CETA, between Canada, on the one hand, and the European Union and its Member States, on the other.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1012	Madam President, I would like I debated a few weeks ago with a true liberal. He has worked at Timbro and, as far as I know, he has also worked at the Moderate Parliament Office. His name is Mattias Svensson and he has written several books. We just got into these international agreements, which Mr Rothenberg insists on calling trade agreements, although he knows that they are much more comprehensive than agreements aimed only at removing a little tariff and tariff. Mattias Svensson said something interesting. He said that this investor protection destroys market forces and rather monopolises markets to a few large companies when they have the opportunity to sue states. I think he is absolutely right in this: a parallel legal system is being created that is fully designed for companies that have multi-million-dollar budgets for lawyers' expenses. Hans Rothenberg talks about understanding and tolerance, which we in the Left Party also think is important: is it not true that what this is based on is understanding and tolerance, simply trust and trust? Then we should be able to have quite a lot of confidence in our current legal systems. What is wrong with the courts in Canada, in Brussels and in Stockholm, Hans Rothenberg? I would also like to ask Mr Rothenberg about the extension of licensing periods for medicines, which is something that the EU has negotiated uniquely. Canada was into the last of its opponents. It will cost Europeans many hundred million extra dollars when we cannot use generic medicines as we have been able to do in the past. Why are the Moderates for this?
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1017	Madam President, I would like Swedish and Canadian companies should be very happy that investor protection is included in this agreement. Jens Holm says, like so many other leftist parties, that big companies are the threat. But it's not just big business that invests. Note that there are both small and medium-sized companies that do not have those muscles, who do not have armies of their own lawyers and lawyers to put in! They must, of course, feel secure when investing in another country. Investor protection is nothing new to this agreement. There are hundreds of trade agreements where investor protection exists. It was called ISDS earlier. Now it's a new variant called ICS. I can say that we Moderates have been curious about whether the new variant is something that is better. But if we had stuck to ISDS and said no to CETA because there has been another dispute settlement mechanism, it would be doing the best to be the enemy of the good. That's why we're definitely up for this. It is not a question of parallel legal systems but of complementary legal systems. Swedish law and Canadian law apply anyway. Investor protection is not something that knocks out national legislation. If a company like BT Kemi in Teckomatorp in the 1970s would destroy the land because of its own production, it is other national laws that come into force. Jens Holm and others need not be afraid that so would not happen if the accident is there.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1020	Madam President, I would like It is now the case that it has been assessed who makes the most use of investor protection in various contracts. It's the big companies. The National Board of Trade made a report a while ago asking Swedish companies if investor protection was important for their operations. No, it wasn't, was the answer. Not important at all. There are quite other things that are important when making investments, such as the level of education of the population of the country in which you invest, the rule of law and order, the existence of a local market that can buy your products and so on. These are the things that are important, not the building of executive courts where disputes may be settled in Washington. Who can afford to go there and be there for weeks with lawyers? After all, Mr Rothenberg, when the EU negotiates other free trade agreements that are now on the table, such as the Mercosur Agreement, the Australia Agreement and the New Zealand Agreement, there is no investor protection there, but it is perfectly possible to conclude more classic free trade agreements with these countries. Why should companies have separate protection in this particular agreement, Hans Rothenberg? Mr Rothenberg did not answer the question of extending licence periods. It is therefore the case that medicines are very often covered by patents, but when the patents expire you can make copies of these medicines. You can make generic medicines that lower the price perhaps by a factor of 100, and then it becomes available to the people in a different way. Now in CETA, the EU has negotiated even longer license periods. The big pharmaceutical companies will make even more money, but it is we who will pay the price. Why, Hans Rothenberg?
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1025	Madam President, I would like There it is again: the big companies. It is always the big companies that are the dangerous and the evil forces. I thought it was unemployment, pollution, natural disasters, crime, crime, diseases and epidemics that were the threat to humanity – not the corporations. I would like to say as my colleague, Åsa Eriksson, on the subject of licensing periods: I cannot answer it in full. But somewhere you can see that if it is something that the government is going to analyse afterwards and evaluate, it is one such issue. I still do not think there are details that make it worth breaking a free trade agreement between the EU and Canada. I would like to give an example of how it can work when you resolve disputes. There is an island between Canada and Greenland. It's fittingly named Hans Island. Denmark and Canada have been arguing about the island for a number of decades. When patrol boats get caught, they put up a flag on the island. The Danes put in a bottle of aquavit and put in a flag and mark that it is their island. After a while, the Canadian patrol boat comes and sets up a flag and a bottle of Canadian whisky. It is a trade war that works between civilized countries. This is something that should act as a symbol of the dispute settlement mechanism for Jens Holm and Håkan Svenneling, for the collected abyss left that constantly sees the dark forces in trade agreements. I can only say, Jens Holm : L for us evaluate the agreement in ten years' time. I'm sure you won't be as right as you think.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1029	Madam President, I would like This is a complicated matter, but my contribution can also be a little complicated. There's a lot we need to talk about. There are a few things on which everyone agrees that the matter is not really about, namely that Sweden is a nation that has built much of its wealth on trade, that the quotas between Sweden and Canada have largely played out its function and that none of us want to remove the state's ability to regulate for the environment, public health and so on. But then you read the deal. That's when things are getting complicated. Why do we conclude agreements with other countries? We need trade, but we do not need to invest all our energy in increasing trade at the expense of facilitating government assistance in combating climate change or social divides or providing care, school and care. This is where the conflicts begin. Before you buy something, maybe you should check what you get. What do we get? At best, in the most optimistic scenario, it could be a permanent one-time effect on bnp of 0.03 percent. The weather plays a bigger role. At best, environmental decisions and protection of health and public health are not made more difficult, but most likely so. Then we wonder what trade we can promote. Yes, it's the services. The customs duties are not a large part of the agreement. They are not the ones who have the economic impact; they are the services. That's where the details lie. But then there is the question of certain products. Do we really want to increase exports to Canada of machines to extract tar sands or more efficient forest machines that can cut down even more prime forests? Do we really want to sell gingerbread and buy brownies instead of changing recipes? Is that logical? Is it important now that we are trying to combat climate change? We are pleased that we are reducing emissions, but the reason is that we do not include the emissions of transport. Do we really want to increase transport and emissions? But both countries can say that emissions are falling in national statistics. Hunting for growth and increased trade in equivalent products – half of the world's trade takes place with equivalent products – is relatively pointless. The half dealing with different products can make sense. This agreement means for those who want growth at best 0.03% in one-off effect. But what's the deal cost? Well, it costs this many pages, like the bill I hold in my hands, in detail regulation. It is a detailed regulation that does not regulate how companies should behave, but how states, regions, municipalities should behave. It is an enormous regulation of detail. It is not free trade, it is reregulated trade. The regulatory burden is placed on our municipal employees rather than on those companies that want to act, which sometimes have to adapt to national rules designed according to national democratic procedures. If you're going to buy the contract, get so little benefits but so much disadvantages, it's like buying a car to get the steering wheel muff for free. It's not worth the price. People say there will be lower prices. But how? If 4 billion total exports increase slightly, will it affect prices throughout the EU? What about the things we actually do? The only thing we can say is, as the Government said – she has now left the Chamber – that it will be SEK 90 million in increased EU levy due to reduced customs revenue. I'm sure we can say that. We can certainly say that it will cost half a million euros to pay Sweden's share in the new court. I'm sure we can say that. The rest is speculation. What are we gonna do? Well, we're supposed to facilitate each other's trade by opening up the service sector. It is sad that it is not clear in the bill what is actually happening. For those who are ambitious enough to actually read the agreement, it is not always easy to see what is happening. Let us read Article 9(7). Previous articles deal with market access and market opening. Then there is the opportunity to make reservations. In Article 9(7), point (c), it is clear that those Articles do not apply to:- an amendment to an incompatible measure referred to in point (a) to the extent that the amendment does not reduce the compatibility of the measure, as it was immediately prior to the amendment, with Articles 9(3), 9(5) and 9(6), that is the stand-still and rate clauses. But that's not in the deal. You have to think of this yourself with your knowledge of how other trade agreements work and how market access works. But the small sentence of the thick agreement is the big difference compared to previous agreements. This is the first time that we have taken a different approach, also in Article 9, namely that we are opening up all service sectors, and then we can make exceptions. This is new, and we should have discussed it more clearly. All other previous agreements have deliberately opened up certain sectors. An exception can then be made in two separate annexes. We have done so in some areas. But the exceptions are not comprehensive. For example, the EU has made an exception for health that is not comprehensive. Let us look at the National Board of Trade's analysis of this issue. I really think that on the whole they have done a good analysis. There is very good and readable information, but one should not forget the main mission of the National Board of Trade. According to Section 1 of the instruction, the National Board of Trade is to work for the following: our National Board of Trade is to promote free trade, free movement in the EU's internal market and based on the overall Swedish economic interest in the light of the government's overall objectives for growth and employment. The Authority shall also take into account the interests of business and consumers. In addition, the Authority shall take into account developing countries' perspectives and integration into the trading system. ..................................................... Free trade, growth, employment – that is where the focus lies. Sustainability and the environment are on their mission, but it is not the main focus. It would have been desirable for authorities with this focus to have their own independent investigations. The Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency answer that there are problems when you look at the agreement. It would have been desirable for them to have had the time to do a more thorough analysis. It is reasonable for Parliament to be informed of the costs of implementing decisions. The National Board of Trade has not investigated the cost for all municipalities, county councils and government authorities to analyse whether any decision they implement is in accordance with the legal framework on legitimate requirements. It is true, as many say here, that we must legislate for a better environment and for labour law, but only if it is done by means of legitimate requirements and if it is compatible with the regulatory framework internationally. If we're going to do that, we have to have knowledgeable people everywhere. I do not know if Sorsele Municipality has a commercial expert who can compare all their municipal decisions against international commercial law and its jurisdiction. I don't think so. I hardly believe that any Swedish municipality has it. That'll be a lot of expensive consulting hours. Why aren't they included in the analysis? Then it is said that according to the National Board of Trade there is no problem. But is that so? The report on p. 2 states that in some parts there is a need for in-depth analysis. Yes, it's true. Why don't you do it before you make decisions? Furthermore, this issue of investment protection is an interesting point. I'll read on in the National Board of Trade's report: Furthermore, it is unclear where the seat can be placed and what consequences this may have for the process. By giving the Joint Investment Committee, among other things, the right to appoint arbitrators, interpret the agreement and add to Article 8(10), Sweden has de facto handed over some decision-making power compared with Sweden's other investment protection agreements. No, it's not true either, as some say, that this is the same as the others. Are the exceptions that we are trying to make watertight, as has been said here in the debate? Here's how the National Board of Trade writes: One example is Systembolaget, which currently has a monopoly for the retail sale of alcoholic beverages. Should Sweden dismantle the state monopoly and open up the market to foreign operators, Sweden cannot, under current commitments at a later stage, reintroduce the state monopoly. ..................................................... It has been said that there have been agreements of this kind many times before. But it's the first time you've ever had a reverse logic. The logic is that everything should open up. If there were no threats, I find it difficult to understand why the Minister makes a declaration. The agreement says that we have a negative list, that is to say that there is market access in the norm. We have stand-by and ratchet clauses that make it very difficult to take back businesses. Why, then, do you make a declaration that you want to retain that right? There is a direct conflict with the text of the agreement. And who interprets it? Yes, the arbitrators do so in the dispute settlement that exists. Although Sweden has remembered to make an exception and thus has the opportunity to re-regulate a sector – if we have remembered to make an exception – that exception is not protected from the dispute resolution. Even if, for example, we were to limit profits in welfare, there is a risk that it might be faced with a lawsuit. So that's not true. Even the National Board of Trade writes in its report that there is such a possibility that there is no guaranteed protection against such a mood. If you read what says about the services, the National Board of Trade has confirmed what is previously included in studies. The investment protection of the agreement is fully applicable regardless of the exception. Sweden can thus be sued for a re-regulation of, for example, the welfare of existing exemptions for the sector regarding transparency. This means that both the ban on profits in welfare and the abolition of private investors in the school sector can lead to lawsuits from companies defined as Canadian investors. One weakness of the Kommerskollegium's analysis is that they do not analyse the EU's health derogation in more detail in Annex 2 – Annex 2 is the annex on which better coverage is normally available. This ascribes to the health sector exceptions which it does not necessarily enjoy. The National Board of Trade also argues that there are sufficient exceptions to re-regulate the railway sector, which is highly unclear, and this runs counter to the fact that Sweden, for example, has included an explicit exemption for Arlanda Express in the agreement. The same reasoning applies to public transport. The Kommerskollegium's analysis on these points is therefore contradictory. The Swedish Board of Agriculture's and the National Board of Trade's assessment is that the tariff quotas for beef and pork given via CETA will not affect Swedish animal welfare or agriculture. The analysis can be criticised on two grounds: on the assumption that Swedish consumers have paid for Swedish meat at the expense of cheaper foreign meat is not tested in a recession; on the other hand, CETA is treated as an isolated agreement rather than being weighed together with future agreements, such as Mercosur and the USA, if it is done, where cheap meat under similar production forms is given tariff quotas on the EU market. There is a legitimate concern that this cheap meat could distort competition and thus lead to internal pressure on Swedish standards. We already have that pressure compared to the EU. Are we going to exacerbate that pressure through the agreement with Canada? No, I say. In addition, there is another problem here. Our agreements with Canada and the duty-free quotas are based on compliance with our minimum requirements. However, the agreement is being reached with the federal authority, but in Canada control is decentralised to the regional level. This means that we will not have much opportunity to ensure that the meat that comes is in accordance with the agreement. I would now like to address the issue of investment protection. Why have investment protection? You can really ask yourself that. The US Department of Commerce has ranked Sweden globally in terms of a safe and good climate for investment. We have nothing to gain from strengthening investment protection for Canadian companies. They already have a freedom of competition to locate their business in Sweden. If they choose Europe, it is smart to place it in Sweden. We're not making any money out of this. Besides, there's an illogical connection here. If we say that with this agreement we should trust each other's authorities and controls, why not trust each other's courts? It doesn't make any sense. All investors have protection in Sweden today in Swedish courts. Parliament and the government make decisions on the laws. Swedish courts interpret them, and we can trust them to be neutral. Hans Rothenberg! I don't really understand why you can't be a real market liberal here. Why are you going to be a state capitalist? Why can't you trust the market to handle this? Why can't companies that are worried about regulatory risks when they invest buy insurance against regulatory risks and trust the market to value this? Why should states introduce courts of arbitrators to interpret this for us? Why not trust the market as a genuine moderate? I wish I could see that from the Moderates. The party politics of the Moderates here is completely illogical. If you believe in the market, the market will solve this. It is not for states to do with state capitalism. Then when we have these courts, why should they cover all sectors, including those where we have made exceptions? That also makes no sense. If the States agree with Canada to protect certain areas, why are these areas covered by the dispute settlement mechanism? Why is healthcare, school, care, railways and system companies covered by the dispute resolution mechanism? Why do we agree that there should be judges outside our control, which according to Kommerskollegium is an extension of the jurisdiction and reduced competence for Sweden? Why do we agree to that? I wonder. Then you say that it's great, that it's new lyrics and harder to sue. The demands to be able to win are higher. The burden of proof is reversed. The new dispute settlement mechanism is modern and progressive. It is true that transparency has increased somewhat. It is true that there are some possibilities for third party submissions, and that is an improvement. But it's not very progressive. There are two different ways of seeing the logic of how you get compensation for indirect expropriation, i.e. that companies sue states to get money. The traditional effect is sole effect. I don't even know what it's called in Swedish; I've never read a Swedish thesis in this area. With sole effect, you look at what has happened to the company. If it's made any losses, the government will pay. There is also the more modern concept of police powers. This takes into account, as the agreement with Canada does, whether one has had a legitimate purpose to regulate something. In such cases, you can make regulations and avoid compensation if you are lucky. However, this is not to be interpreted by a Swedish court, but rather by the arbitration court. No one knows how the arbitral tribunal is to interpret this. If there is uncertainty that even the National Board of Trade acknowledges in its report. So no one knows today whether or can safely say that we will not be sued or lost. What we know for sure from previous trade agreements is that it has a regulatory cooling effect. I see that the President thinks I speak for a long time. I asked for 40 minutes' speaking time, but it was said that the tradition is 12, so I warned the President that it might be up to 40 minutes anyway. Let's see if I can be a little faster. Let me get back to the subject. There is therefore a possibility that companies may lose. But what we have seen is that the purpose of lawsuits is increasingly to achieve what we have seen from previous trade agreements and experiences from there: we want to bring about a regulatory cooling effect. It means that countries would like to do things but do not dare for fear of being sued. We can see this in the example of Philip Morris, who sued Australia when it wanted neutral cigarette packets without brands and advertising. The company probably knew from the beginning that it would lose, but the purpose was not to win. The aim was to frighten New Zealand, Ireland and England, who wanted to introduce similar legislation. However, this legislation was delayed due to the ongoing legal process. It does not help that texts say that there is a reduced risk of losing legal processes. The aim has increasingly been to scare states and have a regulatory cooling effect. There is research that shows what the effects would be if the purpose is no longer to win but to frighten states. This may, among other things, lead companies to gain a lower share of the proceedings, to make their claims more public, and to a lower degree of conciliation. All three of these indicators would suggest that companies are incoherent with us countries. This is exactly what we have seen. The number of settlements is falling, the number of profits for companies is falling and the number of high damages published is increasing. The purpose is scare tactics. Why should we open up to scare tactics when they have adequate Swedish and Canadian courts to go to? Let me read directly from the National Board of Trade's report: People who say something else are wrong. I would also like to say something about the environment and public health and the protection of investment. It is no coincidence that the chapters dealing with occupational safety, public health and the environment are excluded from the dispute settlement mechanisms. This means that if states want to sue states – that possibility also exists – there is an exception for these three areas. If the aim of the agreement had been to achieve the objectives of high environmental protection, high health protection and high levels of protection of workers, these areas would be covered by the possibility of being sued. There would have been a compliance mechanism to protect the environment and public health, but it does not. This shows that the focus of the agreement is to promote the interests of companies at the expense of States. It's no wonder. When the European Commission was preparing the CETA and TTIP agreements, 93 per cent of the invited representatives of large and medium-sized enterprises and 3 per cent were representatives of peoples' movements. That is why the agreements have been drawn up in this way. I agree with Jens Holm that there are also problems with the copyright chapter. This applies, for example, to the assessment and calculation of damages. It can have unreasonable consequences for a poor parent who has uploaded a popular YouTube video where children dance to a famous artist. The parent may have to pay enormous compensation for this. However, we do not really have time to go into these details. I'm surprised when people say this is gonna give me more jobs. Where does it come from? What scientific basis is there for this? I haven't seen a single report that scientifically shows how it could give more jobs. Where does it really come from? I would like someone to refer to a source, because I have never seen one. Along with some others, I have written a motion on the matter. In the motion, we called for this to be further investigated because the agreement contains such new mechanisms. This applies, for example, to the negative list of market access as well as the ratchet clause and the stand-by clause, which prevents us from re-regulating activities that we want to re-regulate without having to pay damages. Regulative cooperation, which has previously been mentioned in this House, is also a problem. The aim of regulatory cooperation is to promote trade and remove barriers to trade. We say here that we have equivalent standards to Canada and that we should trust each other's laws and rules. When the agreement was signed with the United States, it was also applicable to Canada. However, it is in the United States that the car industry exists. The example of crash tests was then taken. It seemed unnecessary to crash testing in both the US and the EU. However, a university investigated what would happen if we applied American crash tests in Europe and in the United States. It turned out then that because of road construction, speed limits, how to design roundabouts and so on, you crash in different ways. Not surprisingly, the American crash tests were better at predicting collisions in the US and the European ones were better at collisions in the EU. If we were to trust each other's tests, several hundred more people would die in traffic every year and thousands would be injured. Thus, even the example of the parade we had for us to cooperate with the rules proved to be a very bad example. To see what these regulatory simplifications have already led to, we can look at the Fuel Quality Directive. There we have already seen effects as the US and Canada threatened us if we wanted to move on with it. The same applies to legislation on cloning. There the threat of the agreements has already prevented Europe from moving forward with the legislation that we would have liked. Another good example is the mining industry. Sweden has very favourable mining rules, but it does not protect us from threats if we do anything about these rules. Even if we were just trying to adapt to other countries' standards, there is a risk that the value of investment will be weakened or completely eliminated. For example, if we introduce a substantial mining tax, which may be necessary to preserve resources for future generations, or preserve the water of Vättern or other interests in society, such as the right to land of the Sami people, there is a constant risk of lawsuits. We need to design it exactly according to the regulatory framework in order to make legitimate demands for the protection of public health and the environment. And how many municipal or government officials are experts in commercial law and can all the jurisprudence of the last 20 years on how to design this exactly? This leads to regulatory cooling, which is exactly what these agreements threaten to bring. We have had very few debates in Sweden on trade agreements. I attended a demonstration against CETA today. Since there are so few people who have heard their voices in the process, I want to read out parts of the speeches that people from peoples' movements made during the manifestation. I'll start with Andrea Söderblom-Tay-Tay, Chairman of Friends of Earth. Here's what she said: I had written a speech that I would have given here today, but this morning when I was on my way to work, I read an article that made me feel like I can't hold that speech. It was another article that told us that climate goals are unlikely to be reached. It was nothing new to me. I've read it a hundred times before. But every time I feel the same. I get sad and angry, because it wouldn't have to be like this. We could already decide today to close all oil fields and coal mines and ban fossil fuels. Why isn't it done? We choose politicians to take responsibility for society and our common interests. What interest may be greater than the interest in a future of good living conditions? If climate change is not halted, we will not have that future, but a future we can hardly imagine. The problem is that although it is we who choose the politicians who sit in Parliament, most of them do not work for us citizens. It becomes painfully clear when it comes to CETA. CETA is an agreement designed for large companies, not for us. I can't stand to stand here again and list all the problems with CETA. In short, there are very many. CETA is an agreement that will both impair our ability to secure people's access to welfare in the future and jeopardise our ability to achieve climate goals. But what is perhaps the worst of all is that the agreement shows that we have politicians who give absolute priority to the wrong things. A trade agreement doesn't save anyone's life. It doesn't eliminate emissions. The only objective is to increase trade and economic growth. With CETA, it's actually even worse. Estimates show that it may not even increase growth. CETA is an agreement that is essentially about giving large companies power over us, as expressed, for example, in the investment courts that form part of the agreement. There, companies will be given the opportunity to sue states for decisions taken democratically. In the midst of a burning climate crisis, then, we have ruling politicians who see it as their primary task to put more money in the corporate pockets. Some of them do it enough because they do not know better, but we also know that many do so because new assignments are waiting in these companies at the end of their term of office. We are faced with an election this autumn in which government ability is considered an important argument for voting for one party or another. I think the vote on CETA is an excellent opportunity to see how governmentable parties and politicians are. Government-worthy can only be if one is able to look beyond capital interests and prioritise solving the most real challenges we face: climate threats and other environmental problems as well as growing inequality. I say like the activists who went outside the European Parliament for the vote on CETA there and forced parliamentarians to step over them to come in: Approval of CETA is like trampling on citizens. But no matter what stupid decisions the politicians in this house make, we in Friends of Earth will never stop fighting for a policy that puts citizens' interests ahead of big business. At the same demonstration, Camilla Björkbom, Chairman of Animal Rights, also spoke. She said this: The treatment of animals is an important issue for European citizens. The treatment of animals is an important issue for Sweden's citizens. In fact, animal welfare ranks high in the EU's opinion polls. Animal welfare is particularly highly ranked by Swedes. Yet the EU and Sweden risk being flooded with cheap meat from Canada. It is meat produced with such poor animal welfare that it could be illegal to treat animals in this way within the EU. Trade in meat is expected to increase with CETA. For the first time, meat consumption in Sweden is now decreasing. To conclude an agreement that increases the trade in meat when we have to eat less meat is not responsible. Increased trade in meat leads to more animal factories. Animal factories, with many animals cramped indoors, are the main cause of animal cruelty on the planet. Animal factories also have serious consequences for the climate and wild animals displaced by fodder farms. In Canada, pigs may be kept behind bars where they cannot move. They can't even lie down comfortably. One sentence in CETA that I was particularly attached to is this: Canada gets unlimited duty-free access to live animals. Long animal transport, especially at sea, must be reduced, not increased. Animals are not insensitive goods. With investment protection and weak wording on animal welfare in CETA, it may be more difficult to improve for animals in the EU. Instead of more cows coming out for grazing, there may be fewer cows for grazing. Instead of reducing meat consumption, there may be increased meat consumption. We should remember three things: CETA impairs animal welfare. CETA is increasing the trade in cheap meat. CETA makes it difficult to improve for animals in Europe. Another way is possible. A new free trade agreement with Canada could have wordings that are in line with the EU's founding treaties, where animals are recognised as sentient beings. A more modern wording is in the agreement with Mexico. A new FTA could impose binding requirements on animal welfare in its own animal welfare chapter. Sweden has the ambition to work for better animal welfare in other countries. It is therefore in Sweden's interest that we act because there are good wordings about animal welfare in the trade agreements. That is why the Animal Rights Parliament is calling for the current agreement to be rejected. Animals are sentient beings, not insensitive goods. The next organization was the Shift, which was represented by Robin Zachari. His organization has collected 17,000 names against CETA. He wants you to know, and that's why I'm saying this today. He wishes that Parliament would listen to these names and that we at least do not make decisions now that the legal situation is so unclear. The legal situation is unclear. The European Court of Justice has said that ISDS mechanisms in bilateral EU internal agreements are contrary to EU law. The reasoning of the European Court of Justice is that the whole of the EU's function and structure is based on a legal statute. Handing over power to institutions outside the EU system is a threat to the EU's internal charter. Several of the arguments put forward by the Court of Justice of the European Union are applicable to CETA as well. The European Court of Justice has also been asked by Belgium to examine CETA and see if it is in accordance with EU treaties. The fact that the Swedish Parliament would ratify the agreement tomorrow would be directly wrong. According to certain professors of EU law, such as Christina Ecke in Amsterdam, and Senior Lecturer Marja-Marja-Liisa Öberg in Örebro, we should wait, because it may be contrary to the EU Treaties and is considered to violate the obligation of loyalty to proceed with an agreement when the European Court of Justice has come up with such criticism. What we do could violate EU law. I think we can wait. In the meantime, we can start working with Macron to secure the climate agreement. In the meantime, we can also investigate how much this costs Swedish municipalities, county councils and authorities. Now again to the voices of others! Then we have the Field biologists and Leo Rudberg. I'm shortening his speech somewhat, because it was pretty long. We are united here today as a result of our common desire for radical social improvement. We have different starting points – party political and non-partisan – and different ideologies, but we are united by this: We know that another world is possible, we struggle to realize it, and we will never let any big corporations with delusions of grandeur stand in the way of our visions. All public power emanates from the people. That is how the basis of our democracy is established in the form of government. What we all do in our peoples' movements and parties is to implement this basic democratic principle. Our collective struggle is an expression of humanity's constant desire to create its society together, to improve the living conditions of ourselves, our fellows and our fellows, and to leave a better world to those who come after us. Now the foundations of our democracy are under threat. An ugly trade agreement with a complicated abbreviation, CETA, poses a genuine danger to our chances of democratic influence. Big business should not just be given enormous advantage, as it is today, through its huge financial resources for lobbies. In addition, their power over the political process shall be governed by law through special company meetings and director's courts. Now I cut pretty good in Leo Rudberg's speech. He continues: But even the most fanatical supporters of growth should not be able to defend an agreement such as CETA. The impact of the agreement on growth is estimated at 0.03 percent. So, in order to achieve this almost negligible change in the bnp, we are going to risk our democracy. So cheaply, the Alliance, SD and the government sell out their democratic principles. It's outrageous. Some of CETA's defenders argue that the criticism is excessive and that CETA's special type of director's courts are much more democratic than previous director's courts. Unfortunately, this view is naive and de facto. The Minister for Trade himself has not been able to guarantee on several direct issues in the Riksdag that CETA will not impair progressive climate and workers' rights policies. As far as the director's courts are concerned, the criticism has only grown. As late as the other week, there was a great victory. Here I can stop reading, because he tells me about what I just mentioned. Even the Nature Conservation Association, Protect Forest and several other environmental movements, including environmental movements in Europe, as well as progressive parties such as the Greens in Canada and the Greens in Europe, are against this agreement for well-founded reasons. The Congress of the Green Party itself has said that we should not support agreements with these kinds of investment clauses, which risk threatening the environment and public health. We should not support agreements that make this difficult. I believe that we all share the desire to have trade agreements that benefit society. But at some point the price will be too high and the profit too low. CETA is a very typical example of when the price is too high and the profit is too low. To such agreements we should say no, thank you. I wish we could show a willingness to find out what the agreement costs Swedish municipalities, county councils and authorities by referring it back to the committee. In the meantime, we were able to find out more about the costs and consequences and then come back with a decision. Perhaps it could be a renegotiation of the pieces that, for example, Macron wants to change that climate-proof the agreement. It would be a responsible decision that does not block trade but regulates trade. Trade should serve our needs. We should not serve the needs of commerce. This agreement provides the opportunity to sue anyone who threatens the needs of trade. But those who want to defend the needs of the workers, the needs of the environment, the needs of animals and the needs of citizens are done without tools. It is no longer a free trade agreement. It's a power shift agreement. Such agreements are not modern or progressive. It is the last sigh of neoliberalism to cling at all costs to an old, outdated model of development. It possibly served a purpose for a certain period of time. Mankind's challenges historically have always been to be able to make enough food and shelter and have a table set the food on. But the modern challenge is no longer that. We can produce more products than anyone in the Western world would ever need. The new challenge is to do so within the limits of the planetary system. The new challenge is to distribute what we produce fairly. To those needs, this agreement is completely useless. It continues on an old-fashioned redeployment of power where power is taken from the people and given to those who have money. Power is taken from the local level and moved up to central arbitration tribunals beyond the reach of the states. It is a shift of power that does not serve the needs that we need to solve today. That is why it is not a modern and progressive agreement. It's the last sigh of neoliberalism. Things are hidden deep inside the agreement's Article 9(7) which affects our ability to regulate profits in welfare. It can make it expensive and difficult. It affects our decisions to protect the environment. Sure, we get, but we might have to pay for it. Sure, we get, but we get a lot harder to justify it. We're not going to expand an outmoded doctrine. We're going to have modern deals. Look at the new model agreements that the environmental movement in Europe has written. Look at the new models developed by the Green Party Group in the European Parliament. There you have the solution to a modern fair trade that is subject to the need to protect the planet and the environment. There, trade is a contribution to the struggle to solve modern challenges and not a requirement in itself. I am voting in favour of such trade agreements. However, in the absence of this, I would like to express my agreement to the re-referral and consent to the rejection. This agreement does not meet my requirements for a trade agreement.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1132	( THIRD VICE TALMANN: I would like to inform the honourable Member that the reported speaking time has been exceeded by over 200 %. )
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1133	Madam President, I would like It is a great sin that Minister of Commerce Ann Linde has left. It would have been interesting with lines on her and if she had commented on what Carl Schlyter said. You might think that Carl Schlyter talks for a long time. Nevertheless, it was a summary of the agreement of 1 150 pages. This is what the government has put forward in its proposal. Carl Schlyter said a lot of interesting things. I and Carl Schlyter were members of the European Parliament at the same time. We negotiated the EU chemicals law. One of the proposals in CETA is to have an authorisation procedure and have regulatory cooperation. But there are different legislative procedures in North America and Europe. In North America, for example, neither the United States nor Canada have federal animal welfare laws. For example, we do. As far as chemicals are concerned, the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate is an authority that has expressed a great deal of criticism about the CETA agreement. In the EU the REACH Chemicals Act is designed to place the burden of proof on industry, those who put chemicals on the market. We can discuss how well it works, but at least that's how it's supposed to work. But in both the United States and Canada, the burden of proof lies with the authorities. It is up to the authorities to prove that a chemical is dangerous. I think that there are two completely different legislative traditions that clash with each other. Since you didn't have time to touch that crash, I want to know what you think about it, Carl Schlyter. I would also like to know what you think about your own party's proposal to evaluate CETA in the future and correct any errors afterwards. That was something that was raised by, for example, Lorentz Tovatt.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1137	Madam President, I would like I wanted to ask for 40 minutes of speaking time, but they said, "You don't do that." I warned in good time that I would speak for 40 minutes, so I hope I did not cause too much trouble. You're taking a chance that I know this question, Jens Holm, and I actually do. It's like you say. Here companies must prove to the authorities, and there the authorities must prove to the companies. There is another aspect that makes it not total anarchy among them. It is that the possibilities for group sentiments and extremely large damages are great. The fact that there is no total loss in the field of chemicals there is due to the possibilities of mass lawsuits and extremely expensive proceedings in the national courts. It is the regulation that is holding back so that companies do not do anything there. Now it becomes problematic if we are to have products approved with their tools, with a lack of control, and then come to a European legislative environment where we do not have the same tools to bring them to court at the same costs for companies. Here there may be an imbalance. Theoretically, imported products must comply with REACH. But there we both know that there is a loophole for dangerous substances in a concentration below 0.1%, for example. There is a serious concern here that the impact of different legislative systems may impair overall protection. Then you asked the question about my party. I think it's great that you want to renegotiate afterwards if there are problems that you didn't expect. I expect the problems to arise and a renegotiation. A renegotiation is no guarantee whatsoever that it will go well. But I think the demand itself is perfectly legitimate.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1144	Madam President, I would like As far as renegotiating is concerned, you need to relate to what already exists. In my world, it would be much better to say no now. The agreement is being sent back because there are such obvious risks that it becomes more difficult to legislate in the environmental field. It is a threat to regulation in the area of welfare. When we see that animal welfare organisations, environmental protection organisations and trade unions oppose CETA, it would be a better strategy not to say yes now. When evaluating when the agreement is already in place, don't you, Carl Schlyter, think that the risk is obvious that you can only change a little on the margin? There are some small things you can adjust. But the very basic structure of the agreement with regulatory cooperation, investor protection and the whole idea of approximation of laws and regulations will still remain.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1146	Madam President, I would like It's true what Jens says. I totally agree. It is clear that it is better to say no to an agreement before it enters into force if you do not think it is good or have great concern about what it may mean than to try to adjust it afterwards within the framework of that agreement. That is, of course, a much better option. The attitude of the Green Party is this. Our Congress has decided that we would like to be in government and do much good there. We have also decided that we should not approve agreements that risk making environmental work more difficult or contain such dispute resolution mechanisms. There are two decisions that are somewhat in conflict with each other because the government and the majority of the Riksdag want to vote in favour of the agreement. Then the Green Party has chosen to accept the agreement now and to make the best possible possible in a possible renegotiation. I personally represent the second part of Congress's decision, namely to say no to agreements of this kind. Then all members of the Green Party may feel represented here in the Riksdag. I think that you should never exaggerate differences in how you do things here in Parliament, but I think it is very healthy that as many people as possible can feel represented by members here in the Swedish Parliament. I do not think that one hundred per cent of voting loyalty with the group favours democracy or people's confidence in democracy. Everyone must be able to follow loyalty with their party congresses. You should be able to follow loyalty with your party groups, and you should follow loyalty with why you engaged politically. You should also be able to follow loyalty with your citizens. The fact that there are sometimes different interpretations of which loyalty is the heaviest is only beneficial. It shows that politicians are not robots, that politicians are not algorithms and that politicians can think and act. I think it is healthy if it is high in the Parliament so that more Members can show why people have voted for them and that there is an opportunity to have their views represented in Parliament by as many Members as possible. I think that's only good for democracy.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1152	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your speech, Carl Schlyter! It was long and interesting, and you have obviously done a thorough analysis of the CETA agreement and its consequences. I would like to dwell on the question as to how your fellow party members have come to a different conclusion. What do you think that's for? I bet your thorough analysis is something you've shared with your party partners. What makes it possible to conclude that the agreement is in favour despite all these negative consequences? You yourself were aware that your Congress has clearly stated that it does not want agreements with this type of dispute resolution mechanisms and that it does not want agreements that are so clearly at risk of deterioration for the environment. What, then, makes the majority – a large majority – of the members of the Green Party come to the conclusion, after all, that tomorrow they will vote in favour of the agreement? The final question concerns what is decided at your congress. When it comes to the Congress of the Left Party, when you decide things at Congress, we kindly bow down in the parliamentary group and do exactly as Congress says. But in the case of the Green Party, there seems to be some variation from Congress's decision until you decide what you as a party think. The big question you ask is: When did the Green Party decide to be in favour of the CETA agreement? When could that conclusion be reached, and on what basis? When was the decision of Congress, as it were, overtested?
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1156	Madam President, I would like It's a little fun that we're going to discuss the environmental party's internal democratic procedures here, but I can try to do it according to ability. Actually, Håkan Svenneling might have requested a reply on Lorentz Tovatt, who represents the party. After all, I represent a minority view on this issue. If you are going to try to interpret the Green Party's decision, it is that we have chosen to sit in government. We do not always get what we want; it is probably common knowledge. But we get through other things. It is difficult to interpret a refusal, because it is actually a non-decision. The decisions I read were the approval. One proposal that was rejected was that we would risk government power in order to stop CETA – to have to leave the government for this matter. That kind of "that" kits didn't get approved. The question then is: can we vote against a government proposal that has guaranteed support in this House and still remains in the government? Yes, I think so. I like power sharing. We are constantly talking about government competence. But when are we going to talk about parliamentary ability here? I think it would be good to have increased independence between the parliament and the government and even within the parties in between. This would increase dynamism, and it would enable the government to update its proposals more often, on the basis of proposals from its own parties as well. I would like to see a development in which a government party's policy should not necessarily always be 100% represented in the parliament by the party's members at all times. I think it is a good thing if the members of the parties can sometimes choose loyalty to Congress' intentions rather than loyalty to government-driven policies. But a majority has chosen to defend government policy, because that is the tradition. Everyone here knows that government parties follow the government's policy, although some have concerns about its appearance. I think it would be healthy for Sweden and for democracy if we had higher ceilings and if it were not so dramatic if Members could follow the decisions of their party congresses in parliament instead of always following the government.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1162	Madam President, I would like I asked Lorentz Tovatt for a reply earlier and asked, in particular, why he thinks the agreement is so good for the environment when there are so clear shortcomings. He then made an argument for why it was good, which did not really last. Yet that is the line he has taken as spokesperson on these issues for the Green Party. It is good that we are landing in some sort of clarity here. For the Green Party, however, it is somewhere about power above all. That is what the other members of the Green Party have landed in: they want to remain in government, and then it is worth more than, for example, trade agreements that may harm the environment. I think it is important for this to come out. I may think that the discussion about when to leave the government and so on is something that you have to take internally in the parties. That is not something I intend to comment on. This type of demand is often made for political parties; individual issues linked to tough demands are to be hung up. I am not sure that I share your analysis of the division of power and so on, Carl Schlyter, but I agree with one thing: what you say about the Members of Parliament having to drive the government, whether you belong to the same party or to the same type of political bloc. It is something we may see a little too rarely in this Parliament. It is said in different ways that you do not agree with the government's policy, but you cannot even ask a written question or an interpellation or disagree. I therefore share this basis, although I think it is wise for us in Sweden to have the kind of party democracy that we have.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1166	Madam President, I would like If I am to defend the majority in the group's vote, I can say that a contributing factor may also be that if you choose to take a battle, it should be a battle that you have the opportunity to win. I think the majority took the view that the majority in this House is so compact that if you are to leave the government, you want to do so because of an issue where it matters for the outcome of the parliamentary vote. I think that is a contributing reason why the majority chose to do as they did here. As I said, it is difficult for me to express the views of others, but if I am going to try to present the considerations of the party majority, I think they have reasoned that way. However, I think it is good for democracy if people are allowed to do what they have promised before the elections even if they belong to a party and a government that does something else afterwards in a compromise. We imagine, for example, that we would like a total ban on hunting wolves in Sweden and that we would win this issue in the government. There may then be some social democrat in some county who has always gone to elections to kill all wolves and to get rid of that nasty and hideous wolf that we are going to exterminate. It would be absolutely devastating for this person's electorate if he or she pressed the yes button to save the wolf. I think that this person should be allowed to express his disagreement, because we will still win the vote. It does not affect Parliament's decisions, and it does not affect the compromise that the government has made. But the voters in the region feel that the Member represents them before and after the elections. I believe that blind party loyalty with one hundred percent equality of vote damages confidence in politics as a whole. I am the one who has deviated most from my party line, and I am still over 99% loyal to the party line. I think we need to go to North Korea in order not to accept even that.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1169	Madam President, I would like The basic question is: What is the benefit and purpose of CETA? What problems is the agreement supposed to solve? Who benefits from it, and who pays? Carl Schlyter – and many here, to be said – has responded in a commendable way to much of all of this. And why this haste to take decisions when we do not even know whether the dispute settlement mechanisms of the agreement are legal under EU law? We MPs are elected by the people. We represent the Swedish people, not transnational, large companies. As elected representatives, we have a responsibility to think for ourselves and to take on board new information, even when it comes a little late, like the judgment of the European Court of Justice that has been mentioned here, about the illegality of the dispute settlement mechanism in the agreement between Slovakia and the Netherlands. We also have a responsibility to distinguish between large and small issues, decisions that are easy to change if circumstances change and other decisions that are impossible or at least very difficult to change. CETA is a major, far-reaching issue with huge consequences in many areas that have been well highlighted in the debate here today. Once the agreement is concluded, it is said to be very difficult to get out of it or, for that matter, renegotiate it. We have an obligation as Members of Parliament to carry out a power analysis on issues of this magnitude, and we shall also require adequate basis for decision-making. This, of course, includes thorough impact assessments of what such a complex agreement might mean, and where it actually fails. The National Board of Trade has done its job. They had a short time, but they also asked, for example, the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency about how they viewed the agreement and what consequences it could have. They did not have time to do the really thorough analyses, and I think they should have done so. The same applies to the new information that has now come from the European Court of Justice, which stated a few weeks ago that the arbitration clause in the investment agreement between the Netherlands and Slovakia is contrary to EU law because these courts operate completely outside the national and European legal systems, thereby limiting the powers of national and European courts. The Court of Justice also found that the transfer of disputes from the European legal order to these arbitration tribunals itself constitutes a threat to the European legal order. We have all received this information from Christina Ecke, professor of EU law at the University of Amsterdam, and Marja-Marja-Liisa Öberg at Örebro University. They are experts in this area, and they advise us MPs to await the opinion of the European Court of Justice before deciding on ratification of CETA. The statement we are to wait for is therefore what Belgium has asked the European Court of Justice, i.e. whether the similar arbitration procedure in CETA is contrary to EU law or not. This may take some time, but it is only good, because then we will actually have time to get to the impact assessments. We have time for a lot of things that might be important. There's no cow on the ice either. It is not that it is not traded and invested between Canada and the EU, because it is. This is kind of funny, really. Those who advocate that Sweden ratify CETA and that it is very urgent come with dual messages. On the other hand, it is extremely important – really important – to get this in place quickly, and there is almost no difference from what it is like now. What's it gonna be? Why, for example, should we have special courts that give companies the right to sue states outside national legal systems when there are already national legal systems that work? If it is true that CETA's mechanism does not add anything new that the Trade Minister said – it was a pity that she left, because it would have been interesting to hear her develop this a little more – what should we have these new mechanisms for? I really don't understand. They say they shouldn't be so dangerous, but put it down. Don't introduce them. I don't understand. It is also said that the agreement would increase trade and that it would bring benefits in terms of cheaper goods and more jobs, but even those who are very optimistic believe that the effects would be small. One might also wonder, as several have been here: At what price? Why is trade in itself, ever-increasing trade in long-distance trans-Atlantic transport in this case and with equivalent goods that we have also heard here – half of the world's trade in equivalent goods – more important than the environment, health, trade union rights, animal welfare and even democracy? It's really weird. Trade is a means of making things better. Trade is not an end in itself. Aren't we agreed on that? It is only in trade and trade barriers that there are sanctions, sharp wordings, special courts and the ability to sue for companies, but not for states, as many have said here, but there are no similar sanctions to protect the environment, climate, trade union rights and other important values in functioning societies. This is, as Carl Schlyter said, out of fashion. It's not progressive. It's a misthinking. Trade is a means, not a goal. There are, as I said, great costs in the short and long term of such an agreement. We have already had a premonition as to how it might be in terms of perhaps not directly paid values, but it is clear that there will be a cost in the long term, in the form of the EU Fuel Quality Directive adopted in 2014. It was aimed at reducing emissions from fuels through, among other things, the labelling of more climate-damaging fuels but was voted down in the European Parliament after pressure from Canada to put CETA at risk. This made it easier to export the highly climate-damaging tar sands to the EU. Much is, as I said, very unclear and interpretable in CETA, for example with legitimate reasons to legislate to protect the environment and health. What's legitimate? Who decides that? It is not self-evident in any way. Here, of course, we have the explanation for the function and purpose of investor protection. Only the possibility for companies to sue states if they legislate to protect values other than trade will lie down as a wet blanket over legislation and over the will to legislate. It is clear that you censor yourself when you know that there can be enormous claims for damages. It has been in the debate but I would like to reiterate that Canada is a major mining nation and that Sweden has legislation that is extremely favourable to mining companies if they want to operate in our country. Romania was sued for a sum equivalent to half the country's health care budget by a Canadian mining company because their mining project was stopped for environmental reasons. The most important thing is not whether companies win or not. Only the threat of lawsuits and the risk of being forced to pay enormous damages go a long way. What would happen if the Swedish parliament wanted to tighten up the requirements for running mines and taking greater account of the environment, drinking water, Vättern, the North Kärr mine, the locals, the reindeer industry or if you would raise the negligible, ridiculously low, mineral fees? What would happen? There's a lot at stake. We'd take big risks. For what? For big companies to make more money. It is not our job as Members of Parliament. Sweden should join France's line. They advocate a climate veto in CETA, and they investigate and wait to ratify CETA. It is wise, and there we could hang on and get stronger along with a progressive force in this case. I'll ask you again, what's the deal? Who's adding anything to that? And who's paying? You should all ask yourselves those questions before you vote yes. We have a responsibility as individuals and as elected members of this Assembly. CETA is to a very small extent about free trade. There is not much toll between the EU and Canada, and removing those that exist is great but does not require this comprehensive agreement, because it is about regulatory cooperation and investment protection. The effect of entering into this agreement is that even more power is shifted to already powerful big companies and away from the arenas of democracy. Why should the parliament, which represents the people, decide to just give away so much power to already powerful interests that are not democratically governed and that actually exist to generate profits to owners, usually shareholders? Furthermore, if we await the ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the agreement, even in all its parts, is legal under EU law, we will have time for the broad democratic process that has not yet taken place. I have already said that authorities such as the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency would have time to carry out detailed impact assessments. Not least, civil society, people in general, could be involved in getting a chance to understand and take a stand on what concerns and affects us all in so many ways. How can one be concerned about the decline in confidence in democracy and the emergence of populist parties and authoritarian regimes while voting through a system-changing decision like CETA without serious public debate, without seriously inviting the public and civil society to participate? We have a chance. It can be done. It's not weird. It is therefore not only unnecessary but irresponsible, I would say, to instigate a decision before we know what the European Court of Justice will find out about the ICS dispute settlement mechanism. If the Court states that ICS is contrary to EU law, a difficult legal situation arises, if Sweden has said yes. As I said, it can be avoided. Let us wait to make decisions! We can and should wait for the verdict – and use the waiting time well, I think. In view of all this, I cannot see voting in favour of CETA today as anything other than a kind of democratic self-harm, and I do not think we should engage in that. I would like to conclude by calling for the approval of Amendment No 1, which proposes rejecting the proposal, and also for the request to refer the matter back to committee.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1200	Madam President, I would like I think it is strong for Annika Lillemet to speak against the CETA agreement today and vote against it tomorrow. A few years ago, Annika was spokesperson for the Environmental Party in trade matters, a mission she had to leave, among other things, because she was strongly critical of the CETA agreement. I have many times in this House taken a reply to Annika and then been very harsh in my criticism and put severe pressure on her, including in relation to the CETA agreement and other trade agreements with this type of dispute settlement mechanism. I know it's costing you. If I have understood correctly, Annika, you will leave Parliament after the election. I think you're an example of sometimes having to pay a pretty high political price for what you believe in. In today's line, I'm going to be very kind, and I'm going to give you all the respect you deserve for your commitment to the CETA agreement. Thank you, Annika.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1204	Madam President, I would like Then thank you! It's like I'm getting a little teary. It is not always a good thing in politics, but it is important to be able to be hard on the substance but kind to people. That is also how I have understood our debates throughout the ages. Thank you, Håkan Svenneling!
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1207	Madam President, I would like As it used to be called in Monty Python's flying circus once upon a time: I can promise you from the outset that I will be less than my registered speaking time. There are a large number of motions that the committee has dealt with in this report, and there are many reservations. I would like to endorse reservation 6, which concerns, among other things, the need for the government to take measures to stimulate the recruitment of professional officers and, perhaps, especially reserve officers. The reserve officer was a profession that in the past was quite numerous. It was then that people who had attended officers' college but who only served in the defense if necessary. Otherwise, the reserve officers, most of them men, were out in civil society and had regular jobs in both the private and the public sectors. The reserve officers represented a special asset, I believe, for the Swedish Armed Forces and still do so to a lesser extent. They served as ambassadors for our military defense in the community. They were very cost-effective because they were only payable during the time they served. They also brought new, healthy civilian perspectives into the authority, and in this way I think they revitalised military defence. It is important that we can maintain the reserve officers for the future as well. It is also important for the government to take steps to overcome the recruitment difficulties we have with regard to professional officers. In recent years a large number of seats on the so-called officer program have been empty. Madam President, I would like I was going to use most of my speaking time for a proposal that is very close to my heart. This concerns paragraph 10, Medal for particularly commendable international efforts. In 2007 a veteran soldier investigation was set up to develop a veteran policy for Sweden. It was about supporting the veterans who have participated in strong efforts abroad – the Balkans, Afghanistan. Lebanon, North Africa and others – but also about supporting their relatives. In the context of the 2007 study, which issued its final report in 2008, it was proposed, among other things, to establish, in honour of our veterans, a special medal for commendable international efforts. Some year after the investigation proposed this, the government at the time came to Parliament and told within the framework of a more coherent bill on veteran politics that it intended to introduce this medal. The Government then commissioned the Swedish Defence History Museums to design the medal and propose regulations for how and in what situations it could be distributed. The state's defence-historical museums produced a proposal that also showed what medals should look like. After this, after March 2011, nothing happened on this issue. No initiatives have been taken, either by the then or the present government. That is why it is very important for me to be able to say today in this House that it is a completely united defence committee which now gives the government a declaration that this medal will finally be established, ten years after the proposal was submitted. It is a force, Madam President, and it is nothing less than what I believe we owe to those veterans – both military and civilian – who still today make heroic efforts on behalf of the Swedish state, far away from their homes and often under very risky circumstances. I hope, Madam President, that I will be present in politics on the day when, in my opinion, a number of important people may be awarded this medal. If I started on the military side, I would have liked to have seen that the colonel of the first degree Ulf Henricsson, head of BA01, had received it. On the civilian side, I believe that there are several worthy representatives, such as Zaida Catalán and Anders Compass, who have made heroic efforts in the civil field.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1219	Madam President, I would like Now that we are in the last debate on personnel supply in the Swedish Armed Forces, perhaps it is time to consider what accounts this government is leaving behind. If you want to make a very brief statement, you could actually say two words summarising the personnel policy that has been conducted within the Swedish Armed Forces, and those words are a reintroduction of military service. When you look at our training and war units organisations today, you can see that there are very many gaps. There are too many soldiers, sailors and officers missing, and I cannot see that with the many holes in our war organisations we are on the right track. I also believe that the simple truth is that the Swedish Armed Forces must become a better employer if it is to be successful in recruitment and in retaining staff. It must become an attractive employer with a modern vision. During our term of office, we from the Moderates and the Alliance have tabled several proposals which have been rejected in committee. We have also constantly pointed out that it is important to keep working on the issue of attractiveness, but it was perhaps the case that all other proposals disappeared when the issue of re-enforcement of military service came on the table. In committee, however, we have been told, for example, that there will be an incentive for soldiers and sailors to continue their employment through, for example, training premiums or other measures. It has been interesting to see how the government has dealt with this issue. The government has implemented the announcement by saying that those who are now required to undergo basic and post training will receive a premium after completing the duty training. What we thought would be a premium for people to continue working within the Swedish Armed Forces was thus, through the Red-Green Government, a contribution to end up in the Swedish Armed Forces. What we thought would be an opportunity to get people to stay in the defense became a muck money that you get when you go home from the regiment. It is clear that there is a question of how this contributes to maintaining staff. One might also ask whether it is really an initiative, because the money that is now being distributed after someone has completed their education is actually the salary the person had during both recruitment and position training periods. It has now been postponed and paid out a few months later. I find it hard to see that it would be an initiative, but that shows the government's prowess on these issues. Madam President, I would like I cannot help but get the impression that, by reintroducing military service, the government believed that all recruitment problems would thus be resolved. It doesn't seem like you've given much thought to what the defense looks like. Although part of our defence today is a military defence, the majority of the defence consists of people who have contracts and are employed by the Swedish Armed Forces; it is a small part that is made up of mandatory or T-soldiers, who should be called in the event of either practice or a sharp situation. It must then be understood that human resources policy is important. I think that Aurora 17, the exercise that was carried out quite a short time ago, revealed a problem with having a large military defence: When they called in 1 000 soldiers who were under obligation, about half came. It is clear that you then miss out on many opportunities to both train and practice – but also to actually get use in a sharp situation for the people you have trained, many times qualified. Madam President, I would like Recently, the committee was informed of the problems that have been encountered with the Recruiting Authority. It has been a matter of having time to sign up for anyone who would either be admitted to military training by duty or voluntary means. Since the government had not informed the Recruiting Authority that a number of thousands more people would apply for police training via the same authority, the agency was simply allowed to put a note on the gap. They had to close the operation and stop people from actually applying to the Swedish Armed Forces. Through the government's management, hundreds of people thus missed coming to the Swedish Armed Forces, who so well need these people at a time when recruitment is a problem. That responsibility, of course, also falls to the government. We are today at a time when there is a great shortage of work in all sectors. In such a situation, one might imagine that a government and a defence force should do everything possible to improve their offer to those who want to spend time and knowledge on making the defence better, but many of the measures we have proposed – or indeed all – have actually been rejected. Let me just mention a few. The possibility of housing is often a restriction for those who want to apply and do military training for some time. In other sectors of the state, there is currently the possibility to run housing for rent to people who work within the authority, but within the Swedish Armed Forces there is no such possibility. Of course, such an opportunity should also be introduced within the Swedish Armed Forces. I have also seen from my experience in the Swedish Armed Forces that the people who are the best soldiers in the field may not always be the best in the school bench. I therefore believe that the Swedish Armed Forces are currently failing to get a large group of younger people to apply to the Swedish Armed Forces, because the demands of an academic nature are too great. I think, of course, that you should have the knowledge you need when you leave the Swedish Armed Forces, but then give the opportunity to have an entry point where you can read grades. It is about broadening the base that could actually be useful in the Swedish defence. The incentive system I've been into. It is not just about compensation and money, it is also about the possibility of validating training and actually getting practical benefit from their military training on the day one turns to the civilian. The question of maximum duration of employment is also something that, in many opinions, limits the possibility of detaining staff who are both skilled and competent – and who are needed. There is also a question we in the Moderates have pushed, namely that in many parts of Sweden we see that the relationship with the Swedish Armed Forces is weak. The Swedish Armed Forces may not have been present in those places in the country, and this may require special efforts in the form of mobile recruitment and recruitment offices. However, this too has been rejected. Madam President, I would like President Widman was on the subject of our veteran policy. I may well think that, in order to be a government that places great pride in its participation in international efforts, the status of our foreign veterans is taken surprisingly lightly at home. There has been extensive work, and there is a study that has many proposals. Unfortunately, however, the result of government policy has only become a light product, which I regret. We Moderates think that the men and women who, in the name of Sweden, make great efforts in foreign countries deserve the best reception on their return. Madam President, I would like Finally, the Commander-in-Chief recently presented the budgetary conditions for the coming years. As early as next year, there will have to be reductions in practice, which is regrettable. What he also said was that over the next three years the defence needs another 10 billion in order to implement the defence decisions that all of us here have in some sense supported. As far as the economy is concerned, however, it must be said that the four alliance parties have been clear in the direction and the ambition that the allocation for defence must be increased. The issue can really be brought to a head, because we are currently in a situation where we see that we must either continue to implement the efforts we have made or say that it is a matter of backing back again. It can also be noted that in the last few days there has been a series of moves by various ministers in relation to different types of electoral promises. At the same time, it must be noted that it has been quiet from the Ministry of Defence. I would therefore like to ask the Social Democrats in this House: will you give the defence the money it needs to implement the decided defence decision, or will you tell the defence and its employees that they will start planning for cuts? I think it is an important question, and I think many people want answers to it. Madam President, I would like The Moderates have signed 10 of the 18 reservations in this case. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservations 6 and 14.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1239	Madam President, I would like For time winning, I only apply for reservation 2. Human resources have been completely redeployed. Why, Madam President, has human resources been completely redeployed? Because the system of a purely employed defence did not work well enough. Let us remember what it was seven years ago in this House. When SD was a new party, we suggested that the training of conscripts be resumed. Then we were mocked for this. The employee defense was available and useful, it was said. It is true – the Swedish units are of high quality. An employed unit is better than a military unit on most crucial points. The problem with employee units is that they are expensive and therefore can not be that many. Today's only brigade, with the aim of making the brigades two, is inadequate. If we were attacked, we would have to go through difficult and extensive transport. If transport to the battle zone were to succeed, the risk is that we would have lost the favored role of defending units and would rather have the role of the attacker regaining ground where an attacker secured terrain. We must have more brigades so that we are peace-grouped in the areas where an attacker can try to establish himself. The SD has proposed eight army brigades and three amphibian brigades, consisting of just over two-thirds conscripts. To increase the number of trained conscripts, we propose, first of all, that 8 600 be trained annually. We propose the appointment of all young men and voluntary appointments for young women. Everyone should go through a three-day course in uniform in connection with the signing of a contract in order to create participation. According to the urgent wishes of Norrbotten, a recruitment office should be opened in Norrland to stimulate recruitment in the northern parts of Sweden. More women should be attracted to defence through campaigns, not through quotas. The brigade sketch we use is the one that Stellan Bojerud brought out for us when he was in our parliamentary group. In it, the first battalion, Brigade Staff, Brigadier Air Guard and Brigadier Patrol are fully employed. This makes every brigade in our system directly accessible and easier to mobilize. In its perspective study, the Swedish Armed Forces sketches a Swedish defence in 2035 with five army brigades and six amphibious battalions. Madam President, I would like Now the Armed Forces have told us what you need. Now it has to be estimated and the defence budget increased accordingly. The Alliance's parties want to gradually increase the defence budget to 2% of GDP. SD wants to raise it to 2.5%. There is a majority on the question of enabling real reconstruction. The government must stop slowing down the armament of the defense. The issue of defence can no longer be stuttered. The training of conscripts has at least two additional positive effects. Those who have done military service constitute a staff pool from which more people can choose to take up employment in the defence. The compulsory service training therefore strongly favours the recruitment of contracted soldiers. Another reason why the training of conscripts is positive is the popular attachment of the defence. With only one defence employed, the employed soldiers and officers will easily be the only ones to solve the total defense task. However, a sustained defence requires that most of the people and preferably the whole people feel involved. As a result of compulsory education, those trained and their relatives and friends begin to feel involved. Duty is good. We should not see duty as complementary, but as a main function of our military capability production. Madam President, I would like The defense has trouble filling the cadres with contract soldiers. GSS/ K, the continuously contracted soldiers, has tended not to fulfill all the years of their contracts. They must then be replaced by new contracts. GSS/ T, the sometimes serving soldiers, have had too low a presence on exercises. This is no wonder when you see the conditions. The T-soldiers must ask their employers for permission to participate in exercises. Compare this with conscripts in the past, who could easily show a mandatory notice order to the employer! The K-soldiers have bad conditions. This may not do much in the first years of employment, but sooner or later it is time for establishment in the community with family formation and other things. Then it's tough with bad terms of employment. We propose, among other things, that three measures that could improve conditions be investigated, namely: We support Allan Widman's excellent motion on the introduction of a medal for particularly commendable international efforts. This medal shall have a high status, which is exemplified in the Veteran investigation. It's important to show the veterans the respect they deserve. Few are prepared to sacrifice so much for the common good that veterans have done. But it shouldn't stop at medals. Positive discrimination for veterans, such as tax relief or duty-free treatment, should also be investigated. Furthermore, veteran day should be the last Sunday of May and not a fixed date. Then it is easier to participate, not least for those who have a long way to travel.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1258	Madam President, I would like Of course, the members of the Committee on Defence are well aware of the situation of defence personnel, but this may not apply to everyone who listens. In the Swedish Armed Forces, approximately 20 000 people work daily. The staff of the Swedish Armed Forces are now divided into continuous staff employed by the Swedish Armed Forces, and at times employed by the Swedish Armed Forces, who have another employer in essence. In addition to employed personnel, there are also women and men who have signed service agreements with the Swedish Armed Forces. This takes place mainly within the Home Guard. The continuous staff consists of around 9 000 professional officers, 5 300 soldiers and seamen, and about 5 400 civil workers. Our system of periodically acting staff and staff with service agreements – i.e. people who do not have the Swedish Armed Forces as their main employer – is unique to us in Sweden. The temporary staff consists of approximately 6,500 reserve officers and 4,300 soldiers and sailors. The Home Guard was estimated at the turn of the year to be 21,700 women and men. In total, we have 50 000 people in the Swedish Armed Forces. Sweden can therefore put 50 000 soldiers on its feet. We can compare ourselves with our Nordic neighbours, which may not be entirely fair because we have some different systems. Norway has 45 000 people in its defence, and Denmark has 63 000 people, but it should also be remembered that they are NATO countries which, in the event of abuse, can be helped by other NATO countries. Finland, like ourselves, is not part of NATO. Finland can stand with 253 000 people in its defence. The fact that Sweden has a low number of people in the Swedish Armed Forces obviously means a certain vulnerability. It is clear that one cannot stress enough the importance of the Swedish Armed Forces having a good recruitment and being able to maintain and develop personnel with the right skills. We can't afford to have too big a gap in such a low number. Madam President, I would like Me and the Center Party support the Swedish Armed Forces' work on personnel supply and that the Swedish Armed Forces focus on ensuring training and staffing of the organisation to increase the ability and usability of the military units and also build up the capability. It is gratifying that the training of officers in 2017 has gone according to plan. The objectives have been achieved, and we can be delighted about that. But the problem is that even more people retire. The total will be negative. You can look at the number of entering military basic training and the number of full-time and part-time service soldiers and sailors. The objectives of the year have not been achieved. The Swedish Armed Forces must work much harder on this. The Armed Forces should also increase the number of women in the military personnel categories. In the summer of 2017, i.e. last year, the first military basic education was completed. A large proportion of the recruits – 90 percent of the women and 89 percent of the men – chose to continue their commitment within the Armed Forces. To the military basic training starting in 2017, which will be completed this year, a total of 2 230 recruits moved in. The target was 3,500 recruits. Jan R Andersson has talked about what it was because of. In spite of the measures taken, the recruitment authority of the Total Defence Service lacked the examination capacity. Then many individuals chose not to take their assigned seats. Madam President, I would like The lack of personnel combined with a deterioration in the security situation in our neighbourhood, including in parts of our neighbourhood in Europe, means that we must monitor developments closely. The seriousness of having a defense with big holes in the organization cannot be emphasized enough. Madam President, I would like It was for this reason that last year the Center Party supported the reintroduction of the obligation to sign and carry out basic training with military service. Basically, of course, we want to see military service based on voluntary activity and where motivation and good incentives will bring individuals to the defence. In the first place, we want to see the provision of personnel for the defence provided by voluntary means, but with duty when the external situation and the need for recruitment make it necessary. But the re-imposed duty must not result in the Armed Forces completely ignoring the good working environment and the will of the individual soldier. This is a prerequisite for maintaining staff in the longer term. It was therefore worrying to hear that the Recruiting Authority had not had enough places for those who had voluntarily applied for basic education – they had to have a chance to sign up. Officers' supply has been an Achilles' heel throughout the Swedish Armed Forces' personnel supply. It also affects the possibility of training soldiers in the next stage. If we get a better officer supply, we can also train more soldiers. It is important that training places are filled and that the incentive structure is improved. This in turn requires the Swedish Armed Forces to be an attractive employer and that many more people choose to become soldiers than they do today. That perspective must not be forgotten when duty has been reinstated. This with attractiveness cannot be stressed enough. I'm an old officer and a backup officer myself. Why did I quit the defense? It has nothing to do with the work, because it was incredibly stimulating and fantastically enjoyable. But it also becomes a life situation where you're going to move around the country. There is always an employer who can offer higher wages. There are many parameters that the defense has to work on in order to keep their employees. The number of contract staff is increasing. This has been pushed by the Center Party, and we will continue to push this forward. Of course, we want there to be a local unit and training structure that allows people to be recruited locally. It's good for the community. It's also good for defence skills. Mr President, I would like to I and the Center Party believe that the soldiers and officers – and also the civilian workers, whom Allan Widman mentioned in the case of medals – who carry out missions abroad should meet with great respect. It is important that they receive proper care after the mission. It's not just about those who go off on missions. Families and close relatives of those on missions often have a great responsibility at home. We can all understand their anxiety when they have a close relative on a mission abroad. We want to support the country's veterans and their relatives. This applies both to the military and to civilians. We also believe that in the long term it will have a positive impact on staff supply. Last but not least, we must not forget the role of voluntary defence organisations in the provision of human resources. The voluntary defence organisations have a long history of training voluntary reinforcement resources for both crisis preparedness and Armed Forces needs. The Home Guard is part of the Swedish Armed Forces' intervention organisation and represents almost half of the Swedish Armed Forces' personnel. Here there is a resource that we really can and need to develop when developing Swedish defence capabilities. The Center Party wants to see a greater and clearer role for civil society and voluntary defence organisations in the event of crisis and war. It is also important that they are involved in the exercise activities carried out. Voluntary involvement in the defence is important for the defence of the country, not least now that the total defence is to be rebuilt. The defense needs to be present in people's minds, and people need to feel and know that they can contribute. People's attachment is one of our most important defence capabilities. Mr President, I would like to To conclude, I would like to support reservation 6 and reservation 13 in this report.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1276	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating certain questions about the Armed Forces' personnel. I was going to dwell on our reservation No. 5, which is about a more equal defence. For the Left Party, the military freedom of alliance is central. It is through an independent foreign policy and an international credibility that we have the opportunity to build security together with others. A credible Swedish military alliance freedom also means a need for a Swedish defence with strong popular support, which has the capacity to maintain control over Swedish territory as well as to meet the various security threats that we face and be able to contribute in international efforts to safeguard peace and security. We therefore welcome the decision to reintroduce military service. It is excellent that both men and women are called to sign. It is an important step for a more equal and more popularly established Swedish defence. Although the new military service takes place on a relatively small scale, it is an important step in the right direction. In the long term, we want to further develop military service, and it should be possible to do both military service and civilian service. The fact that defence is made up of people from different backgrounds and experiences is ultimately a question of democracy. It is really now that military service really becomes universal because both men and women are given the opportunity to sign. The proportion of men and women who do military service should be closely monitored and evaluated so that we achieve a balanced gender balance. However, it is necessary to strengthen efforts to increase gender equality in defence. Our society consists of half women, and it must also be reflected in the Swedish Armed Forces. The military represented the last male professional monopoly in Sweden. It was only in 1989 that women were allowed to work in the armed forces. In the previous conscription only men were summoned to the conscription, and it was not until 1994 that women were allowed to do conscription without at the same time intending to carry out the training of officers. Although Sweden was the first in the world to allow women to work in all military positions, many notions of male and female still exist. Women were, and to some extent, seen as part of the nation to be protected. Nevertheless, women have for a long time been involved in defence in various ways, including through support organisations such as the lottery corps, the largest women's organisation that Sweden has ever had. Today, the Armed Forces' personnel consist of approximately 87 percent of men. Among officers and special officers, the share is 94.5 per cent, and among group officers, soldiers and sailors it is about 88 per cent. Among civilian employees, the distribution is somewhat more even, although men with their 62 per cent also represent a majority. The increase in the number of women employed is too slow. The large proportion of men represents a democratic deficit. Sweden today has a different gender distribution in the defence than many Western countries. The Swedish Armed Forces' own action plan for gender mainstreaming applies during the period 2015– 2018. However, it lacks sufficient measurable quantitative and qualitative targets. In order to achieve the requirements for participation in Resolution 1325, the Swedish Armed Forces' gender work must be intensified. The Left Party wants to see a defence force where women and men are equal and where women are represented to the same extent as men, regardless of their position. When today's newborns turn 18 and are called to sign, they must meet with an equal defence force. The Swedish Armed Forces should be instructed to come back with a plan for achieving a gender balance at the various levels of the organisation by 2035. The Swedish Armed Forces should also be charged with carrying out an annual gender equality survey. In November 2017, the Swedish Armed Forces' response to the Metoo came through the call # attentiontochbitihop, which 1,730 women who are or have been active within the Swedish Armed Forces have signed. The defence personnel testify to everything from offensive comments and bullying to rape and believe that there is a culture of silence within the Swedish Armed Forces where complaints are not taken seriously. Among other things, a female officer tells of an event when she entered the shared coffee room one afternoon, a coffee room that they also shared with civilian women. There were men sitting in all the couches, and they were drunk and they were playing a porno while they were drinking coffee. When the woman protested, she was mocked and forced to leave the room. This is just one in a series of examples of offensive and discriminatory treatment and far from the worst example. The Armed Forces are still too much an organisation of men, for men. It is essential that women are taken seriously and that a functioning system for reporting is established within the Swedish Armed Forces. It is gratifying that the ÖB has stated that there should be zero tolerance to sexual harassment within the Swedish Armed Forces. Now we have to live up to this vision in practice. A more equal representation within the Swedish Armed Forces is also important for developing a peace and security policy on a feminist basis, something that the Left Party wants to see. Security policy is not gender neutral. Women and children are the hardest hit in a conflict. Without a gender perspective, there is an imminent risk that men's experiences and experiences in security policy will be taken as a starting point. Security policy must therefore include a clear gender perspective if it is to cover the entire population and be long-term and successful. It is important that Sweden acts both nationally and internationally to improve the work with UN resolutions 1325 and 1820. In addition to increasing the proportion of women in peace-promoting efforts, there must be a gender perspective on international efforts. For example, international workers have repeatedly committed sexual abuse of women and girls. Freedom of communication must also apply to employees of the Swedish Armed Forces who point out abuses of sexual violence, whether they work in Sweden or internationally. I request the approval of reservation 5.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1295	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by calling for the approval of reservation 14! Tonight, we are debating the report on certain issues relating to the staff of the Armed Forces. It's of the utmost importance. We see an increasingly tough world, and before Christmas we were seven parties in the Swedish Defence Committee agreed that an attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. Therefore, we need to look at our house, and then we see that we have too little defence power. We need a bigger army. It needs to be doubled, and it will take time. The Christian Democrats estimate that we need to have four brigades, but that is something that may be completely ready perhaps by 2030. Special reinforcements are also needed for Stockholm and Gotland. If this is to work, Mr President, we must have proper order in the personnel supply of the Armed Forces. As has been said here before, we have great challenges. Last year, 4 000 soldiers and sailors would have been recruited. It turned out at the end of the year that we only came a bit over 2,000. This has been the case year after year, and it makes the filling very slow. As far as full-time workers are concerned, we are in a pretty good position, but with part-time workers it does not work at all in the way it was intended. I had the parliamentary investigation service look at this some time ago, and at the pace that the Swedish Armed Forces have had in recent years we would have somewhere in 2040 or so fully fulfilled the unit. Everyone understands that this is completely unreasonable. I also had the parliamentary investigation service compare Sweden and other countries. It turned out then that Sweden is the only country that has no kind of premium, reward or bonus when you stay and do what you have said. I am convinced that this has contributed to the fact that we have had so many who have stopped prematurely. So they have stayed much shorter than stipulated, and then we are a little bit back at what was the very idea of having employees, namely that the conscripts end at their best. However, the system we have had has not worked at all, and so the Christian Democrats have been advocating for a long time for us to have it as in Norway, where there are staff employed but where they also complement with conscripts. It is as simple as that a defence force consists of completed units, equipment and exercises. As the units are not fulfilled, officers and soldiers have not been able to practice properly. We have had deficiencies in our equipment, and it has always been saved on exercises. This is devastating for a country's defence capabilities, and there must be a change. It is therefore positive that military service has been reactivated. It is absolutely essential that we have a situation similar to that in Norway, where we can fill up with conscripts where there is no other success with part-time and full-time employees. It is also something that is absolutely necessary when we are going to build up the brigades that I mentioned at the outset. This is something that the Christian Democrats believe should be done with conscripts. Mr President, I would like to Taking care of our soldiers is very important. The Swedish Armed Forces would need to have the same opportunity as our universities and colleges have when it comes to offering student apartments. Soldiers receive very low remuneration, including full-time employees. In order to make it work, the Swedish Armed Forces could use simpler housing and in this way help to ensure that the individual soldier can remain. Then there is the question of veteran politics. The chairman of the committee, Allan Widman, has made an excellent report on this, and this also applies to the announcement made by the committee that the government should introduce a special award medal for particularly commendable international efforts. The chairman of the committee has also mentioned a few people by name who would have it, and I fully agree with that. There have been some improvements in veteran politics, and that is very good. Sweden has been involved in international efforts since 1948. So for a long time we have had soldiers who have risked the lives of other people's peace and freedom and who make it to this day, but we have not been good enough to take care of them when they come home and when they have suffered damage. We have not lived up to and fulfilled our duty to them at all. So there have now been some improvements. There is a Swedish Armed Forces medal for the wounded in combat and the Medal of Merit. We have the veteran monument. We set up veteran's day, and that's good and important. It was high time it came into existence. Now there is also something that the Christian Democrats have spoken out for for five years, namely a veteran centre. This was established in 2017, and it is gratifying. However, we need to do more to take good enough care of those who have been out, and I believe, Mr President, that this is absolutely necessary when it comes to the ability of the Armed Forces to attract young people. That also applies to veteran politics. With these words, I am once again in favour of reservation 14.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1310	Mr President, I would like to The personnel form the whole basis of the Swedish Armed Forces. In fact, without personnel, there is no defence force. Since we stood here last year, the duty system has started. Those born in 1999 have been allowed to fill in the alert base and, on this basis, the most motivated and most suitable persons have been invited to sign up. Now it is time for those born in 2000 to do the same. The re-imposed duty has now given us a more flexible and robust system. This summer, the Swedish Armed Forces will also report on behalf of the Government the conditions for increasing the number of training places to 5 000 per year. But it is not only the reinvigorated duty that is important to speak up from the year that has passed, Mr President. Last autumn, millions of women around the world talked about the structures that we women meet and are forced to relate to, not least in the workplace. In Sweden we saw how sector after sector rebelled with witness descriptions, experiences and experiences from each sector. The message was clear: that's enough. As Lotta Johnsson Fornarve mentioned earlier, the uprising among armed forces employees was called # gaktochbitihop. It showed major problems in the business. It is unacceptable that, on the basis of our gender, we should not feel safe in our workplace, to be questioned and less treated. The power structures pointed out by the uprising must be taken very seriously and require active action. When we discuss here today the Armed Forces' personnel supply, how it can be strengthened, attracting more and getting more employees to stay, this is a perspective we must have with us. Patriarchal power structures have nothing to do in the Armed Forces. The task of the Armed Forces is to protect our freedom and our right to live as we choose. This places great demands on the Swedish Armed Forces. The Swedish Armed Forces as an authority must live up to the values and values it has as its mission to protect. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to express my sincere thanks to all of you who, by signing the uprising and telling us about your experiences, have raised the issue on the table and shown what challenges we have to work with. It is a great and important work that we have before us. Women's place in the Armed Forces should be self-evident. Mr President, I would like to We need to take further steps towards an equal defence force. Today, far too few women see the Swedish Armed Forces as an option for them. This is not least evident in the preparedness base. The fact that so many fewer women than men have been called to sign up this first year is largely about the clearly less interest among women aged 18 than among men. It is therefore also good and important that the Recruiting Authority has reviewed the preparedness base from a gender perspective. It is a step in the right direction to ensure that the wrong signals are not sent out and to avoid unnecessary obstacles based on old structures. The Swedish Armed Forces need to become more attractive to more people. The reactivated duty can hopefully, over time, create an increased interest in more groups. Although duty creates flexibility and long-termism in the system, it does not solve everything. We can't pay employees. That is why motivation and volunteering are important. However, our desire for more people to apply for employment in the Swedish Armed Forces must not lead us from the political side to try to reduce the demands of those who undergo basic training. It is important that anyone who starts an education in the Swedish Armed Forces has relevant knowledge, just as it is for all other educations. It is the Swedish Armed Forces who evaluates what knowledge the person who carries out the training should have. The academic requirements that are currently required to do basic education as a sailor and soldier are approved in upper secondary school basic courses in mathematics, Swedish and English. It is competence that may be important to carry out one's task. Eroding qualifications risks undermining training. Mr President, I would like to Earlier in the debate we heard the representatives of the Moderates complaining that we have increased the ambitions of both the police and the Armed Forces. The Moderates chose to shut down the military service system during their time as responsible for the Ministry of Defence. Moreover, in their years of power, they chose not to take responsibility for the urgent need for new police officers. When the S-led government now needs to address the challenges that the previous government has left behind, we hear again how the Moderates are critical. How to be critical of increased ambitions when it comes to the number of trained police officers and trained in the Swedish Armed Forces goes beyond my understanding. It was the former alliance government that chose to rest military service, which means that the organization has disappeared. Now it has begun to be rebuilt. The criticism of the strain that it imposes on the Armed Forces and the Recruiting Authority should therefore rather be directed against the alliance parties. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, I can see that not all parties take the issue of the Armed Forces' personnel supply seriously. The Swedish democrats deal with the issue just as unseriously as ever. As usual, we can read in their budget motion both proposals for the mandatory appointment of women and proposals for the voluntary appointment of women. New for this year is that the Swedish Democrats have their own headline on female military service, which says that the only reasonable order is that women who do military service should be subject to the same rules as men. At the same time, in another paragraph, in the same exercise, they mean that education should be voluntary for women, which would mean different rules for women than for men. The dual messages can also be found in the reservations that the Swedish Democrats have left to this report. As usual, however, the Swedish Democrats show the rogue ability to think everything and nothing. It is regrettable how a parliamentary party can deal with such an important issue as the Armed Forces' personnel supply so unseriously. Mr President, I would like to Defence policy is very serious. Every day, soldiers, sailors and other personnel contribute to providing security around the world. They do so by exposing themselves to great risks and working in harsh environments. It is our job to ensure that they have the best possible support in place, and it is our job to ensure that they receive the best possible support when they come home. In an impressive way, every day, around the clock, they contribute to the stability of the country in which they operate. They, along with all the others who are off to international action, deserve all the support they and their relatives need. That's why veteran politics is so important. In 2017, a veteran centre of the Swedish Armed Forces was formally established with responsibility for running, developing and implementing the government's veteran and family grazing. On Veteran Day on May 29th, this year will be the first day of the general flag. It is important to pay attention to the efforts made by our veterans for Sweden. These are achievements for which they deserve respect. It is another important step in creating better conditions and treatment. Unfortunately, in Sweden, it is far from all veterans who want to tell us that they are veterans because of the prejudices that exist. It is extremely sad and something that we, as politicians, must do everything to change. That is why the new flag day is particularly important. I am pleased that we agree across the block border on the importance of veteran issues and that they must continue to develop. Having said that, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1328	Mr President, I would like to First, I'd like to sort out the police issue. When the alliance government took office in 2006 and became a member of the government, we created 4 000 new police posts in Sweden for a few years. It is probably a record, not just in Sweden, and the increase in police force that we carried out during our time is something that we are proud of. During the time that the Social Democrats have now ruled – over three years – there are actually fewer policemen than during our time. A lot of cops quit. They are dissatisfied and seeking other services. The legacy we had to take over was a closed police training. Then Alexandra Völker tries to blame that I did not want to see new police in Sweden. That's a very strange way of blaming yourself. The truth is that the Recruiting Authority was tasked with testing not only new soldiers who were to be admitted but also a number of thousands of students who applied to the Police College. Then it must have ringed a bell in the Government Office. If thousands of new people are to be tried, one must ask: Will the Recruiting Authority be able to do this? At least the Recruiting Authority should be informed that there are thousands of new ones, so that they are preparing for it. Why didn't you tell the Recruiting Authority that there was going to be a great flood of new trials, Alexandra Völker? Why didn't you tell the authority responsible? The second question was the one I asked in my speech, and it is important when you meet people who work within the Swedish Armed Forces and who are sitting and thinking now. After all, the erosion of the defence budget, which amounts to 7 to 8 billion, means that the defence must save on other expenses. As early as next year, it can be seen that exercise activities will be reduced. That is why the issue is important for all defence workers: will you be making money so that you can implement the decision, or will you say that you are going to start spending?
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1333	Mr President, I would like to In order to hire more police officers, there must also be more trained police officers. That was one of the reasons why the current government chose to increase the number of places in police training. It is clear that an increased number of places impose requirements on those responsible for examining applicants. There is nothing strange about it, and it is clear that the Recruitment Authority was informed about it. The fact that we have now reintroduced duty has also made great demands, and the Recruiting Authority has prepared for that. But it was quick, absolutely, because it had to go fast. We had to do something about the unsustainable personnel supply system that the Alliance Government left behind. We needed to do something about the constant existence of empty training places, just as the Center Party has previously explained. Something had to be done, therefore, and that process went very quickly on the basis of a very well-founded investigation that also included the Recruiting Authority. The fact that it is a test for the Recruiting Authority's activities at the beginning is unfortunate, but it is difficult to get away from. This does not mean that the activity is not a priority. As I said, this is a consequence of the fact that this organisation has not existed for years because the alliance government chose to lay the dormant one. We've chosen to rebuild it. When it comes to financial resources, I believe that Jan R Andersson understands and very well knows that I cannot stand here today and comment on what financial resources the Swedish Armed Forces will have over the next few years. It is a work that is going on in the Government Office and also within the defense group itself, where the Moderates are included. However, we can clearly see that there has been quite a lot of progress since we had a Social Democratic Minister for Defence. For the first time, we have reversed the trend within the Swedish Armed Forces. Maybe I don't think we need to be at our most concerned right now.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1339	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by saying that what Alexandra Völker calls an accident was, after all, an organisation that produced more soldiers than was produced last year. In such a situation, I think you should be a little humble about what legacy you leave behind. Last year 2 000 soldiers were trained when the target was 4 000. You missed half the target, Alexandra Völker. It's really nothing to be proud of. I will not say that we in the Alliance Government did everything right, but we did better than you did. I think we should remember that. I would like to come back to the question of the Recruiting Authority. It is clear that one should know that it has a central role if the number of people is to be increased. You got yourself information from the Recruiting Authority who said they had two months to face the increased amount of cases. They didn't have a chance to make it. In addition, during the same period they had carried out a reorganisation and reduced from three to two offices. It is clear that it was then impossible for the Recruiting Authority to carry out its mission. I do not think you can blame the opposition in any way. It must be a government mission to make sure this works, but it failed. That responsibility falls on the government you represent. There's no doubt about it. There is one question that most people want answers to. Government representatives are out every day promising money for different projects, why hasn't the Secretary of Defense been out yet? I promise you that there is one question that employees in the Armed Forces and in the Armed Forces management want answers to is: Should we continue to invest, or should we start with reductions? It is important that we receive such a message, and soon.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1344	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by informing Mr Andersson that the organisation that existed last year and the figures that Jan Andersson refers to are precisely the organisation that the Alliance Government carried out. Absolutely, I agree that there were big problems. There were a large number of empty places in education last year. It was, as I said, nothing new. If we are to be completely honest, Jan R Andersson, that is exactly what it has looked like in recent years. Of course it was quick, and it was a strain on the Recruiting Authority. But the end result of a change is that this year, for the first time, we will have all the places on the education obsessed. I think that is a positive consequence and something that we should certainly be proud of, and that is not something that I am ashamed of. In addition, it should be borne in mind that when the Recruitment Authority went from three to two offices it was not because you cut down on the business, but it was just the opposite. They wanted a more robust business that could cope with a growing business. That is why the reorganisation was carried out. Not a small office was created, but you saw that you needed two larger offices to handle all the trial activities to be carried out. They created a new office with a larger dimension because there was too much pressure on Stockholm. I think we should be careful about what is right and right in this context.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1348	Mr President, I would like to I do not usually conduct defence history in this House, but it is nevertheless important for me to say that I believe that both political blocs in Sweden are probably involved in the responsibility for the state of affairs. Between 1994 and 2006, the Social Democratic governments closed down 35 regiments and flyaways here in Sweden. Almost a third of the defence money was removed. When one says that the trend has changed, Mr President, it is a truth with modification. The defence budget as a proportion of GDP continues to fall and will fall by a further 0.1% over the remainder of this term of office. Just a week ago, the Commander-in-Chief announced that if he is to deliver what the Swedish Parliament ordered in 2015, he will need an additional 18 billion over the next three years. It's a long way from a trend break. With regard to duty, it is easy to get the impression that it was abolished in this House by four votes in the spring of 2010. It wasn't like that. The matter was effectively abolished for more than 20 years. In the 1990s, refresher trainings were discontinued. The training of platoon officers and company officers was discontinued. The last few years we were down to a few thousand that were called in. The most common category of military service at the time was security soldiers, who did not provide any further military training. The 2004 Defence Decision stated that the duty would be voluntary as far as possible. In the Defence Committee, Håkan Juholt sat and said, "Yes, duty can now be abolished." This was a mistake, but everyone was there.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1353	Mr President, I would like to I agree with Allan Widman that everyone must assume their responsibilities. That was my point earlier. During today's debate, we have heard alliance representatives relinquishing exactly all responsibility for the consequences of the organisation that they themselves introduced. I still think we should have order when we describe how things have been done. When the military service system became dormant, there was absolutely a need for a new staff supply system. However, I find it unfortunate that the choice was made in the way it was done. This was also expressed by Mr Widman. They chose to do this, despite a clear division in the Riksdag. Moreover, it was a system that obviously has not kept up with time. We've had to do something about it. Today, however, we agree that this needed to take a new direction and that we needed to reactivate duty.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1356	Mr President, I would like to In several interpellation debates over the last few years, I have tried to persuade the government to proceed quickly with the reactivation of duty. This does not prevent a former party leader – Håkan Juholt – from sitting in the Defence Committee and saying that we should make it voluntary. The representatives of the Social Democrats in the Plikt inquiry were of exactly the same opinion. It was at precisely the crucial moment in this House that an opposition party naturally wanted to differ from the majority. I can understand that. What made me a little more upset was when Alexandra Völker tried to incorporate veteran politics as one of the achievements of Social Democracy. She mentions two changes that have taken place in the near future. One is that veteran day on 29 May will be flag day this year, 2018, for the first time. This happened after the Riksdag made an announcement to the government that this should happen. Only then was such a suggestion made. The same applies to the Veteran Centre for our veterans at Karlberg. It came about only after an announcement in the committee and in the Swedish parliament. I am pleased that there is a great deal of agreement on the veteran proposal that is being discussed here today. However, Alexandra Völker should bear in mind that the Social Democrats said no in this House in 2010 to any kind of veteran policy.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1361	Mr President, I would like to On the question of veterans, I think it is positive that we still agree on this, as I said in my speech. I am in favour of the opposition pushing forward on this issue and demonstrating its importance, not least as far as flag day is concerned. A year ago at the latest, I congratulated you on it during the committee's debate in this House. This is not something I deny. If right, we pointed out government parties even before the announcement was made about setting up a veteran centre that the issue was under way. Already then, the government had commissioned the Swedish Armed Forces to make a probe of what a veteran centre would look like. Surely we should stick to the facts on this issue too.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1363	Mr President, I would like to In my speech, I touched on the problems the Armed Forces have with recruitment. It lags behind, and according to the pace that the Armed Forces have had to recruit and retain in particular the part-time soldiers, the units would not be fully filled until 2042. I also mentioned that Sweden is marking itself out. Other comparable countries have premiums and various other ways to reward those who stay the time they have promised. I want to ask you a question. How do the Social Democrats view the introduction of premiums and rewards when people stay for the time they have promised? And how do the Social Democrats view student housing, such as universities can offer? We have previously mentioned the proposal that military service could be regarded as a qualification for recruitment to the public sector and for admission to Swedish universities and colleges. That would be one way of increasing incentives. I think Alexandra can look herself in the mirror and try to find driving forces. As things have gone so badly, I wonder how the Social Democrats view the proposals I have mentioned.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1367	Mr President, I would like to As I have said before, we agree that the staff supply system that we have had has not worked. We are now moving away from this system and are moving towards a more robust and flexible system. I think we need to look at a lot of things. What Mikael Oscarsson has highlighted here are absolutely examples of things you can look at to make the Swedish Armed Forces a more attractive employer. I believe, however, that there are other things as well. One must not be blinded in terms of premiums and other things. I also think that working conditions are important for those working within the Swedish Armed Forces. It is at least as important to talk about the structures within the Swedish Armed Forces. I have not heard any of the Alliance representatives talk about this. These are issues that are at least as important to consider when it comes to who we want to attract to the Swedish Armed Forces and how we get people to stay there. The question of housing is interesting. I have thought a lot about this myself. There's nothing to stop this. In Stockholm there is a foundation that has built homes that are reserved for soldiers and employees on the units. Not least out in Kungsängen there are such housing quite close to the regiment. This is a very valuable addition to attract more people and give more opportunities to work there. So there is much to think about.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1372	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answers! I get the impression that Alexandra Völker, on the one hand, is willing to open up to this. On the other hand, she says don't stare blindly at this. Is it not noticeable that Sweden is the only country that does not have bonuses and bonuses? Can't that give an indication that this is part of the problem? There are too few driving forces. If we take this with housing as well: How does Alexandra Völker think it will happen in reality with the low salary that you have? How can you get an apartment in Kungsängen, for example? Sure, there is a foundation, but isn't this something that the Armed Forces should have the opportunity to do all over the country? This needs to be changed into concrete proposals, and it hastens, given that recruitment is going so badly. If we don't have full bandages, it won't work. This is serious. I would like to give Alexandra Völker a chance to answer a question she received from a colleague earlier on about the budget. There have been very serious signals from the Swedish Armed Forces that it must be supplemented. In the next few years it will be 8 billion, and the third year a further 10 billion is needed. Otherwise, there will be very severe contractions of the exercises. You can bring in fewer soldiers. There is a further push on investment. How do the Social Democrats view this? Isn't it reasonable to pay for what you've been with and ordered?
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1378	Mr President, I would like to As I mentioned earlier, there are homes out in Kungsängen, just as Mikael Oscarsson mentions. I think this is a very positive example. He also mentions student housing as an example. It should be remembered that many of the student housing is also run by private actors, foundations and student organisations. The foundation that is here in Stockholm is a very important one. I think it is certainly a positive example that one can consider how to spread to the rest of the country, because we certainly know that housing is a major obstacle. As far as the budget base is concerned, I will have to answer exactly what I said earlier. That question is, of course, being addressed within the Government Office. It is mainly to them that the budget base is submitted for preparation for the autumn budget. It is also an issue that is relevant for the defence group that the Christian Democrats have chosen to leave. I think that Mikael Oscarsson is quite aware that I personally will not be able to stand here and give any answers to exactly what the economy should look like, but rather it should be a matter for the Ministry of Defence. But I have full confidence that our Minister for Defence takes the issue of the Swedish Armed Forces' operational capabilities very seriously.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1380	Mr President, I would like to Völker says that there is a contradiction in the Swedish democrats' defence policy regarding military service. I'd like to disprove that. We believe that the appointment should be compulsory for young men and volunteers for young women. There's one thing. However, the requirements for those selected to do military service shall be the same. The terms of war are equal. Then the conscripts must also have the same conditions regardless of the gender they belong to. There is no contradiction. Völker turns on the drum because the Social Democrats have done very well to strengthen their defence capabilities. I can endorse the fact that Peter Hultqvist, who is now Minister of Defence and who was in the former Defence Committee, did very well. It's a very good Minister of Defense. He's broken a trend. At the time, the alliance parties had a very weak defence policy and opposed any increase in the defence budget. Then Peter Hultqvist managed to get through that the rehabilitation rate would be SEK 1 billion per year. It's better than zero crowns a year. But now we've come to the next phase. Now the rearmament is to take place in real life. We must add much more money, as the alliance parties and we are now saying. However, the government is a brake. We can see that the share of bnp going to the defense has decreased under Löfven, not increased. Does Völker think that SEK 1 billion per year, protected by inflation, is enough to rebuild? Don't you have to add more money?
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1383	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that the honourable Member, Mikael Jansson, requested r eplik to sort this out with what the Swedish Democrats think and do not think. The report before us today contains a number of reservations. In reservation No. 2 from the Swedish Democrats, Compulsory Service and Staffing, paragraph 1, we can read verbatim: – – – Further education should be voluntary for women. Mikael Jansson said earlier in the speaker's chair that the appointment should be voluntary for women, if I understood it correctly. If we move on to reservation 9 from the Swedish Democrats, Recruiting, item 6, we can read in the position:. Women have contributed a lot to the Swedish Armed Forces and should be subject to the same rules as men because the enemy does not ask about gender first. If it is to be the same rules as for men, it means that education should not be voluntary for women, unless a change of opinion has been made as to whether or not it should be voluntary for men. I find it hard to understand how these reservation requests would not go against each other.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1387	Mr President, I would like to Our policy has always been that military service should be voluntary for women and that must be compulsory for young men. If the reservation is wrong, I cannot answer it, because I do not have the text in front of me, but our policy is clear in that part. Völker talks a lot about the army and about the army being strengthened and filled with personnel. We Swedish democrats are talking about eight army brigades. The Christian Democrats are sketching a model of four. The Swedish Armed Forces sketches in their perspective study for 2035 on five brigades. But I have never heard a social democrat talk in modern times about that it would take more than today's two brigades. Actually, we have a brigade, but we aim for two. That is why I ask Mrs Völker: is it the case that the Social Democrats think that two brigades in the army are enough and that it is enough to build an invasion defence?
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1389	Mr President, I would like to Once again, we hear how the Swedish Democrats declare that they do not have the report before them and therefore cannot respond to what it says. That is interesting, because we had a broadly identical debate last year. I then pointed out this inaccuracies, which we arrived at, in the Swedish Democrats' budget motion. Then I cannot help but think that it is a remarkable thing for the Swedish democrats to leave this error, as they call it, for another year. I think that this is a purely unserious approach to the issues of human resources. This is one of the most important issues for the entire Swedish Armed Forces. The fact that we do not even have the interest to read the reservations that we shall then vote on in this House and to find out what we actually stand for is, in my view, a purely unserious and embarrassing approach to such an important issue.
i-a3d72c2ab376980f-1391	Mr President, I would like to Let me first agree with Lotta Johnsson Fornarves and Alexandra Völker's opening remarks, which highlighted the importance of working with gender equality within the Swedish Armed Forces. The Swedish Armed Forces are part of society, and society is permeated by patriarchal structures. Nevertheless, I feel positive in that we now have gender-neutral military service. I am also in favour of the clear position that has come from the Swedish Armed Forces on how to deal with these issues. However, I was a little more worried when I read on the Swedish Armed Forces Facebook page on 8 March, where they clearly communicated the importance of working with a broader recruitment. There were hordes of comments that marked their rejection of the Swedish Armed Forces precisely because they are trying to push in a positive direction, so there is still a lot to do. Very well! The questions about the Armed Forces' personnel, which the House is now discussing, are among the key issues in order to ensure a well-functioning armed forces in the coming years. When the Swedish Armed Forces now reset, strengthen their operational capabilities and regain abilities that we previously prioritised away, knowledgeable employees are required for this to succeed. For a number of years, the Swedish Armed Forces' staff has been under strain, which can be linked to the suspension of military service in 2010. We environmentalists were fundamentally in favour of providing the Swedish Armed Forces entirely on a voluntary basis. Unfortunately, it has been shown that we did not manage to bring together enough people who wanted to do military basic education voluntarily. In order to secure the Armed Forces' need for personnel, we have therefore supported the line of restoring the duty, but with the new focus that clearly emphasises that the selection for basic education should be based on the individual's interest, motivation and will. The investigation into the defence's personnel supply, which paved the way for the newly-introduced duty, is pressing for a series of measures to strengthen incentives to volunteer for the Swedish Armed Forces and to better reach out to young people who might be interested. It is important that the Swedish Armed Forces continue to work to attract more young people to volunteer for basic education, because it is those who are interested and motivated who are most likely to then take up employment. Not least now that the Swedish Armed Forces are expected to grow, it is necessary that the organisation is a good employer for whom it is attractive to work. Moreover, we have a responsibility to our young people not to use the instrument of duty more than necessary. On this basis, I would also like to stress my scepticism about using this duty as a training institution or an integration project. The Swedish Armed Forces will of course work to reflect the entire society. But the instrument of duty is a powerful tool and a power that the state exercises over its citizens, and it should therefore be used with care. Therefore, its use should be justified only by ensuring Sweden's safety. The fact that people from different backgrounds meet is important, but it is not the task of the Swedish Armed Forces to fulfil that role. Moreover, it is not possible for the defence to fulfil that role at a time when only a small part of Sweden's young people undergo military basic training. A return to duty for large parts of or whole years is not economically feasible, and that is not what the Swedish Armed Forces are asking for either. Since the duty is to be used with care, I am also satisfied with the wording that the Defence Committee agreed on regarding basic education with civil duty. It states that a basic education with a civil obligation should only be considered if it is clear that the needs cannot be addressed with other tools. Mr President, I would like to Swedish defence is growing, and I know that the management is actively working on staff issues. Recruiting new talent, keeping old and securing a good working environment from the account tied to the foreign service is an important challenge that we will have reason to continue to follow. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
