i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1	Madam President, I would like Economic security in the case of old age, such as Category 11, is a high priority for us Social Democrats. In the parliamentary situation we are now in, the transitional government has, in accordance with well-deserved principles, presented a transitional budget which should not contain sharp party-political proposals. The reasonable thing in such a situation is, of course, that we first have a government in place which can then present an amending budget with its own political character. Nevertheless, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats have voted through other frameworks for the state's budget, which means a different direction from what we want. That is why, Madam President, we are abstaining from taking a position on the distribution of expenditure. But, of course, I will take this opportunity to tell you how we want to improve pensions and the conditions for pensioners in the country. Let me first state that a prerequisite for long-term sustainable and safe pensions is that we have a robust pension system. We basically do. More and more countries are looking at how we have done, precisely because we have a financially and politically sustainable pension system. We no longer overwhelm the debts of tomorrow's generations, and the pension we have earned through life is complemented by tax-funded basic protection for those who have not earned enough during their working lives. But after 20 years of this pension system, we see that it delivers too low pensions. Of course, we cannot accept that. The main reason why many people receive too low pensions is something that should be fundamentally pleasing, namely that we are living longer and longer. But that, in turn, means that the pension rights we work in will last for more and more years. In order for pensions not to continue to be eroded in the way we now see, payments to the system need to be increased. We can achieve this through more hours worked in the economy. During the previous parliamentary term, we have been pleased to see just this: that unemployment has fallen and that employment has increased. But in this perspective it is also a matter of providing the conditions for extending working life – it is both about entering the labour market somewhat earlier and about being able to cope a little longer. The second way to increase payments is to adjust the level of contributions themselves. We Social Democrats have set ourselves a target for ordinary employees to receive a pension equal to 70% of their final salary in the long term. Then our assessment is that it will require both an extended working life and an increased old-age pension contribution. In this context, I would like to remind you that what was agreed in the original pension agreement in 1994 was a contribution of 18.5% of the salary, but it has in practice become 17.21%. As urgent as it is to raise pensions in the long term, it is, of course, necessary to take measures here and now to increase incomes, not least for those pensioners who are the most deprived. Already during the last parliamentary term, the S-led government made significant efforts that say something about our will to move forward. First of all, we took several important steps to abolish the unfair pensioner tax. Pension is deferred salary and should of course be taxed the same. It has always been a guiding principle and a question of decency for us Social Democrats. That is why we made sure that pensioners with income up to SEK 17 000 a month now pay the same tax as those who work, and the vast majority of pensioners received a tax reduction during our reign, for the last four years. We stand by the fact that unfair taxation will be completely eliminated by 2020. I welcome the fact that, during the election campaign, a consensus was crystallized on this issue, so that this could be included in the transitional budget. Another important initiative that took place last parliamentary term was that we increased the housing allowance for pensioners, not only once but twice. First we did it through an increased rate of compensation, and then we did it through an increased ceiling for it only replace the cost of accommodation. In parallel with this, we have had constructive and intensive work in the Pensions Group, i.e. the cross-block composition of parties that want to care for and protect the basics of the pension system, but also to make the necessary improvements on an ongoing basis. In December 2017, we presented an agreement, the largest agreement since the launch of the pension system 20 years ago. The agreement contains several important change packages. But perhaps the most urgent part, which also has the greatest bearing on category 11, is that of strengthening basic protection – both an improved guarantee pension and an improved housing supplement. Despite the fact that we have had a fall bordered by parliamentary uncertainty, we have managed to work on the details so that these improvements can be delivered to the country's pensioners by 2020 – it is the time it takes to have all the preparations, referrals and decisions required in a major change work. We look forward to coming back to this shortly. For us Social Democrats, it is also most urgent that those who have worked and worn out a whole life should have a reasonable pension to live on. One should see in the pension envelope that it has paid off to work. That is why we want to see a special pension supplement, which, according to our proposal, would give up to SEK 600 more a month after tax for those who have the slightly lower income pensions. We hope, of course, to hear this proposal, first and foremost in the Pensions Group, whose processes and agreements we Social Democrats defend, but of course also here in Parliament, where decisions are ultimately always made. Madam President, I would like I would like to end by addressing the country's pensioners directly, who deserve my gratitude and that of others, together with previous generations, for having built this country into the fantastic country it is today, with a strong welfare, a reasonable distribution and good opportunities for the vast majority of people to live a good life. But those of you who have done this not only deserve our praise and respect: you deserve above all a strong and secure society that gives back, a society where you get a reasonable pension to live on when it is time to retire. This is a high priority for us Social Democrats, too, in the forthcoming parliamentary term. It is something that we shall work to deliver to you.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-16	Madam President, I would like I have no claims to make, because our budget is higher than the framework budget. However, I refer to our specific opinion. Today we are 2.2 million pensioners. 30% of these pensioners have guarantee pensions. Women's pensions are at 70% of men's levels. The women's union, such as a nurse, a nurse and a nurse, seems to be less appreciated if you look at the income. Shouldn't the most important issue of welfare in our social contract be taking care of children and old people? We must also be aware that it is often women who take care of elderly relatives when the municipality is unable to meet their needs. To have to live in the autumn of age at $1,300 a month after tax, which is the average for women, is not to be regarded as a worthy old age. The purpose of the deferred salary – the pension – was to give a dignified old age in which, in addition to being able to make it economically, one could live and not only survive. Yes, there is age discrimination. A clear example of this is the special pension tax, which means that pensioners pay more tax than those in employment. We would like to see a complete abolition of this tax for Swedish democrats. Another example of this discrimination is the additional income tax of 6.5% on working pensioners introduced last year. Madam President, I would like We Swedish democrats believe that it is disrespectful to charge extra tax from an already financially vulnerable group that has already had its income reduced in the end of working life. The women of my age with whom I have spoken, Madam President, do not experience financial security in their old age. The experience is that pensioners do not count and do not have the same rights as those employed. One of these women says: With that pension, I absolutely cannot divorce. I'm totally dependent on my husband to lead a decent life. No one should have to depend on another person to make a living. Was it not the case that when co-taxation was abolished, it was to create incentives for women to enter working life and be self-sufficient? Now they sit like old people and depend on their partner for their survival. In brackets, it can also be said that the guarantee pension for married persons is SEK 1 000 lower than for unmarried persons. Another woman says: "I can't move into shelter, because it would cost too much. The house I live in is paid, and I want to be able to keep my car and have some gold edge on my life. There are many women in the same situation who remain in their homes due to the financial incentive. It doesn't pay to move. This means that when they may eventually need help, they are trapped in their own home. Madam President, I would like Twenty-five thousand pensioners are defined by the Pensions Authority as people with a relatively low economic standard and, according to the Court of Justice of the European Union, have a risk of poverty, which is equivalent to 15% of women and 9% of men. Overall, one in four pensioners has an income after tax below the limit. Furthermore, the Court of Justice of the European Union considers that the guarantee pension constitutes a minimum remuneration for what is to be paid to a person, whereas the Pension Authority considers it to be a ceiling. Then why do pensioners need more money? It is in order to be able to live like others in society, to afford to give their children and grandchildren a present from time to time and to be able to go out and eat with their friends. Living with a poor economic standard where you cannot keep your car and do not continue living your life is not worthy. Many elderly people are also multisick and need medicines that are often very expensive. Also, many so - called poor pensioners cannot afford to go to the dentist or buy new glasses. We Swedish democrats therefore want to increase the guarantee pension by SEK 1 000 per month, which would increase the pensions of the weaker groups. In the case of the housing supplement, the maximum compensation today is just over SEK 5 500 per month for pensioners, while on average new twos cost SEK 8 000 per month. In other words, there is a lack of affordable housing, partly because of displacement effects from immigration. As a result, the homelessness rate has increased not only in the big cities but throughout the country. Last year, about 2,000 were homeless. The housing allowance must be increased. We Swedish democrats want to raise the housing supplement to SEK 6 000 a month.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-31	Madam President, I would like Since, in the first stage of the budget process, Parliament has decided on a different spending framework for the area of expenditure that we are now going to deal with, the Centre Party also intends to abstain in terms of appropriations for this particular area. The Centre Party's budgetary options should be seen as a coherent package in which no parts or parts should be removed and treated in isolation. The overall proposals of the Center Party regarding the state budget can be found in our Party Movement 2018/ 19:2610. This exercise proposes a framework for this area of expenditure, which applies to the elderly. This means that we want to come back with the detailed proposals in this context. We have, of course, proposals in this area, like everyone else. For us in the Center Party, it is still important that we continue to pursue fair taxation, and we want to see opportunities to contribute to it even now. We also want to carry out a review of the levels of supply aid, minimum subsistence and reserve amounts for the elderly. There are considerable differences between municipalities in the use of these possibilities, which means that if you live in a municipality with high costs, you obviously also get a smaller part of the pension to use for other things than what is necessary. I and the Center Party have also been very much involved in the work of the P ension group. As we have just heard from the Social Democrats, we have continued to work because it is a parliamentary group. This is why we have continued our work during the autumn. In the P ension group, we have taken a holistic approach and made a complete review of our pension system in order to bring it more into line with the needs we have today and not with those that were real in 1994, when the system was launched. We have turned every stone around, and that has meant that, after several years of work on this, we have reached an agreement. It was quite exactly a year ago, December 14, 2017. The first proposals we have taken on and will now implement include improved investment rules for our AP funds. The reason for this is, of course, that pensioners should receive higher pensions and that the funds should provide better returns. In addition, we have pressed for environmental and climate considerations in the placement. We have looked at increasing the guarantee pension, that is, the pension for those with the lowest pensions. The intention is for this to enter into force in 2020, i.e. in about a year's time. It is an important reform. For me and the Center Party, it has been important to support those with the lowest pensions. We know that it is women, and we really need to pay attention to women in this context. It is an important equality issue. An increase in the retirement age is part of what we are very much working on right now. It is very important that we raise the retirement age, because we know that we live longer and have more healthy years. But it is also important that we take advantage of the knowledge and experience of older people in working life. After all, we are going to help integrate new arrivals and immigrants, and then the skills of older people are needed to enable you to learn in the workplace. In addition, it is important to look at how it will be possible to raise the retirement age by means of things that we in the P ension group are not over. It is about continuing training and skills training. We in the Group of the Party of European Socialists are in talks with the social partners, who are sympathetic to this. These are important things that we are working on now and that we hope will be presented in the very near future. As I said to begin with, in the Center Party's budget motion we describe the direction of what the Center Party believes should form the basis for a future government policy in the area of Economic Security in Old Age. I promise to come back to the concrete proposals in this area. The Center Party intends to abstain from voting in this context.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-44	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats will never gain power. We will ensure that nationalism one never has an impact in Sweden or anywhere else. We are voting against a decisive influence for the Swedish Democrats. That's what the Center Party promised the voters in the election campaign this year. Annie Lööf punched her fist in the table as Åkesson continued to spread her dung in the party leader debate, and many believed what she said. The Liberals Jan Björklund expressed himself in a similar way: Nationalism is the threat to liberal democracy as a whole. My sons are adopted from the other side of the world, said the party leader, and they should know one thing: I will never contribute to the Swedish democrats gaining political power in our country. But now we are here with a budget adapted to the greatest threat to liberal democracy, and we owe it to the Centre Party and the Liberals. How could this happen? Have you been so blinded by the loud Twitter elite on the blue-brown edge that you do not see what is happening in Sweden? The Centre Party and the Liberals voted against Ulf Kristersson as Prime Minister. They did not abstain without voting 'no', in order to abstain in such a vote, is in fact the same as releasing such a government. That also applies to the budget. Abstention is the same as releasing the budget, which is the heart of politics. If the Centre Party and the Liberals have always been ready to release a policy dependent on the Swedish Democrats, why have they said what they said during this year's election movement? Why are these parties standing here in Parliament talking about the threat of racists when they then vote their budget? Madam President, I would like Sweden has no government. Otherwise, depending on whether we should be in government or not, we in the Left Party would have put forward our policy of improving the pension system. But we respect the rules of democracy and wait for government in the country instead of failing in parliament. I would have liked the House to have respected the principle of government first, then budget. So now we have a blue-brown napkin sketch for the budget that neither those who have written it nor those who will interpret it understand. It contains over 20 billion cuts. As a result, our entire public welfare is being eroded. Nurses, teachers and carers should run faster and receive lower salaries and thus lower pensions. Savings, queues and fewer colleagues are the effect of this. Money is taken from the home service and instead given to the high-paid in the form of RUT grants. I am sure it is pleased with a lot of money but not the poor pensioner who has to pay for this by having his home service withdrawn. Would it not have been better to use taxpayers' money to improve home care for everyone, including those who are unable to make tax deductions? I don't understand why you don't choose instead to plug the holes in the care of the elderly. The M-KD-SD budget also means draconian cuts to the Employment Service, the authority that makes contributions for those who need to get a job. It hardly gives higher pensions that more people become unemployed. Instead, we want to do something completely different. The pension system has failed in its task of ensuring that those who have worked for an entire working life are able to live well in the autumn of their age. The current pension system is underfunded. Pension payments need to be increased. Otherwise, the pension for too many people will only be a minimum of basic protection. Current systems shift benefits from low-paid to high-paid. Anyone who can work for a long time is rewarded. For those who cannot, for example because they have a rather heavy job, there is no compensation. Those who have had good working conditions and a high degree of control in their work always receive higher pensions. In practice, the system rewards senior officials and academics who enter the system late and can work for a long time, while LO groups who start working early and are worn out early are punished as pensioners. Sometimes they say we're heading in the right direction. However, calculations show that future pensioners risk becoming even poorer than today's. Many municipal and industrial workers receive less than half of their final salary in retirement. It's far too little. Over 300 000 Swedish pensioners are at risk of falling below the EU poverty line. Every other woman who has worked her entire career receives such a low pension that she is forced to apply for basic state protection, what is called a guarantee pension. Behind the figures are people who have worked and worked their whole lives and thought that their pension was secured. Against this background, the Left Party has highlighted the issue of increasing the guarantee pension in budgetary negotiations with the previous government but unfortunately not being heard. We have, on the other hand, been involved in raising the housing allowance, investing in care for the elderly, making it free of charge for the oldest to see a doctor, increased the dental care allowance for pensioners and done much more to smooth the financial gap between pensioners. I would much rather have chosen to increase the guarantee pension for those pensioners who have the least margins, rather than, as KD, M and SD have now done, reducing the tax on consultants and stock investors who earn 50 000 a month and live here in Stockholm, who do not need the money. This is a very poor priority. The Left Party wants an equal tax system – equal tax on equal income. The bourgeois government introduced a tax gap that punished pensioners, the sick and the unemployed. Of course, that should not be the case. It is therefore reasonable to remove the differences in taxation, but inequality cannot be addressed through it. This requires efforts on the most deprived persons and a rescheduling of the current pension system, which many of the parties in this House have been involved in developing. It is not a robust pension system. It gives people far too low pensions. In addition, the guarantee pension is further reduced in the budgets of the Center Party, Christian Democrats and Liberals. According to these parties, pensioners who are in the worst position should therefore suffer even worse. I believe that well-developed welfare also plays a major role in women's living conditions. Women are not only a large part of welfare employees but are also expected to take the main responsibility for elderly and sick relatives. If welfare does not work, it is often the mothers who have to go down to work and do the job instead. Safe and well-functioning well-being therefore contributes both to good working conditions for many women and to the fact that no one has to go down in working time to cover the deterioration of health care or care. This is also what then provides the basis for a pension to live on. However, the right parties chose instead to send out this money, which could have been invested in welfare, to high-paid people, often men. It is the poor pensioners who pay for it. This is not something that the Swedish people will accept or want. There is strong support for improving pensions. We promise that we will change the direction of this policy. With this, I would like to refer to our specific opinion.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-65	Madam President, I would like We heard just now how the Left Party presented completely incorrect information on how we, the Center Party, deal with the budget decision here in Parliament. I have to correct this, because it is important to me that we stick to the truth. This year, the Center Party has managed the budget just as we have always done under the same conditions. The Center Party presents its own budget. We did so this year, but you heard here that the proposals have not been so sharp on the part of the Center Party because we have a transitional government. But I also said that, when we have a government that is presenting a proper budget, we will also come up with the individual detailed proposals. We voted this year on the budget we tabled. When it did not go through, we abstained from taking a position on any other budget. This is incredibly important to know, because we certainly have not voted for any other budget. We abstained because our own budget did not go through. It's important. From the Left we hear a completely different explanation of how we handle our budget. It is important to know that this is the truth and that we have done this many times before.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-69	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Solveig Zander, for the question! Anyone who listened to my speech heard that this is exactly what I said: that the Center Party chose to abstain. But today, in this Parliament, both Solveig Zander and I know this: to abstain in such a vote is to release a budget and a policy that is dependent on the Swedish Democrats. Please tell me, Solveig Zander, why you did not abstain and voted against Ulf Kristersson. Tell me how you reasoned on this, because it is exactly the same. It is not possible to deceive the Swedish people by saying that you have always done this. It's a new situation now. Now we have a nationalist, fascist party, as you in the election movement have said you should not give political power. That is what you do when you lie down, when you abstain, and that is exactly what I said in my speech, Madam President. You can't fool people. They see, and they see that what happens when the liberal parties do not dare to show their backbone is that they release the greatest threat to liberal democracy.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-72	Madam President, I would like You can turn and turn things around anyway, and the Left Party has chosen to do that now to smear the Center Party. We have clearly talked about our attitude towards the extreme parties, including the Swedish Democrats. As far as the budget is concerned again, you cannot actually choose to say no if you have submitted a budget. We have tabled a budget and we abstain from voting. We cannot leave the Chamber to do nothing. Why, then, should we change our mind in this context and support a Social Democratic budget, which would have been the second option? It is entirely foreign to us, and that is why we have dealt with this as we always do. It is important to emphasise this.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-74	Madam President, I would like I note that Solveig Zander chooses not to answer my question as to why he did not abstain from voting on Ulf Kristersson. I can tell Solveig Zander why they didn't. It was because otherwise they had released a government that would be dependent on the Swedish Democrats. And that is exactly what you have done with the budget, which is the heart of politics. Stand by for it! Don't stand here lying when everyone sees what you should see too. It doesn't suit a center party or anyone else. As far as the question of extreme parties and such things is concerned, this is not at the moment. It is about resisting a great threat to the Swedish people and Sweden, namely what the Swedish Democrats represent. I had expected the Center Party to stand with us in that fight. Unfortunately, however, I was disappointed at this vote.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-76	Madam President, I would like This report and this debate are about economic security in old age. I notice that the debate goes quite far beyond what we are going to debate and begins to be more about general policy. As far as the Liberals are concerned, we had a coherent budgetary motion on older people's policy. It has fallen with the budget vote we had last week, and so, as is customary, we are abstaining from choosing any other alternative that is not consistent with the content of our budget motion. We are sticking to this. It is tricky in this debate when we are only going to discuss a part of the elderly's economy. Several parts end up in other committees: the tax committee, the social committee, the housing committee and so on. Nevertheless, I would like to take this a little more coherently in my speech. In this context, pensions, the income of year-olds, are an important part. The second is the expenditure component. The pension group works on how to handle the guarantee pension. In the Pensions Group – it later became Parliament's decision – we saw that this was so important for the people, not least women, who had not collected enough work points. But it is also important that it pays to have worked. That is the basic principle of our financially stable pension system. At the same time as you see what you can do to improve the guarantee pension, you must also look at how you can improve the situation of those who have had very low incomes and may have worked full-time throughout their lives. It must pay for them to have worked. This is a hard nut to crack, but I know the Pensions Group will. One issue concerns this with a longer working life. We live longer, and raising the retirement age, as it is commonly called, is an important part. Those who want and can work higher up the age should not be prevented from doing so. Many even feel bad about being forced into retirement when they want nothing more than to go on to work. Then they're the ones who can't take it because they have heavy jobs. That brings us to another committee, because this is about health and safety at work. We need to improve the working environment for those who have heavy jobs, so that they are able to work higher up the age and also have the opportunity for further training and careers. There are several things that need to be done. Then there is taxation. We're about to even out the treasure here. We all agree that this is an important part. Now we get to the housing costs. The most accurate way to help low-retirement people is the housing supplement. We in the Liberals want to increase it by 500 SEK gradually until 2021, when it reaches a level of 7,000. It is possible that it is not enough either, given the construction costs. We want to stimulate mobility. More and more year-long people want to move to something that is less and more comfortable, but the costs of it can drag away and exceed the costs of the dwelling they already have. That brings us to taxation issues – sales tax and so on – and that is not in the area of this committee. Liberals see here that there is very little about this committee. Yes, we have changed the budget for the guarantee pension. We believe that refugees and people coming from other countries should receive the same support as everyone else and should not be separated. That is why we are transferring this to the supply aid. So it is not a deterioration. I've already mentioned the housing allowance. Madam President, I would like There are a lot of people who want to debate here today and who want to get through before noon. 11. That's why I'm quitting here.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-89	Madam President, I would like On 12 December, the Parliament examined the financial perspectives. Despite the fact that we have a transitional government that has submitted a transitional budget in accordance with agreed principles, the Moderates and Christian Democrats chose to enforce their draft budget instead. Instead of waiting for the process of government formation and representing a responsible and orderly process, the Moderates and Christian Democrats have thus chosen to precede this. This has a major impact on environmental and climate policy, among other things. We see major deteriorations in the environment and climate, despite the fact that we are short of time to stem climate change and must continue to be a leading country in that area. In a situation where the world wants a strong climate leadership, the Christian Democrats and Moderates choose to cut off climate investments, lower taxes on petrol and diesel, abolish air tax, cut down on the PV support and halve the protection of valuable nature. But the consequences will be greater than that. It actually reminds me of when Trump came to power and started huge cuts in the U.S. environmental budget. In the area of financial security in old age, which deals with everything between funds for the Pension Agency, survivors' support for adults and housing allowances for pensioners, the Christian Democrats' and Moderates' financial perspectives have thus been supported in the Riksdag. That is why we now choose to refrain from taking a position on the allocation of appropriations in Category 11. I would also like to add that, in addition to the financial security of everyone in old age, there are other needs for security. We must do what we can to face the great threat that now exists to our earth. If we do not face it and make significant changes in the next 10 to 15 years, we will not leave behind a world that we recognize for future generations. We believe that what should be our focus for responsible parties in the Swedish Parliament is to manage the election results and contribute constructively to getting a strong government in place – a government that stands up for fundamental democratic values of openness and international cooperation and that takes responsibility for our community and our planet. Such a government may also submit an amending budget to Parliament after it has taken office.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-94	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the report on economic security in old age to be approved. We are debating today and are going to decide on Category 11 in the state budget. It may sound a bit dry if you do not know what it is, but is a very important and urgent area that affects not only millions of pensioners in Sweden but also their relatives and many others. It's a group worth protecting. We should also be honest and say that there are very many people who have reached retirement age who are living a good and rich life, but they are not the ones to whom this debate applies. It is the Riksdag that has the responsibility and the right to decide on the state budget and thus on guarantee pensions, survivors' pensions, housing allowances and old age support, which are included in this expenditure area. Although Sweden has a transitional government that is bound by certain principles, the Riksdag cannot evade its responsibilities. We can also note that Sweden needs reforms and a responsible policy. Therefore, the Moderates, together with the Christian Democrats, have put forward a joint proposal. Too many older people have become increasingly difficult to cope with their pension. Many people have mentioned this today, and I think we all agree that we need to do this better. As many as nearly a quarter of a million people over the age of 65 ended up last year below the limit of low economic standards, that is, $15,000 a month after tax. The majority, 66 percent, of these are women. Unfortunately, these sad facts threaten to undermine confidence in the entire pension system, and there is a great injustice when you find it difficult to manage financially in the elderly. Not everyone has had the opportunity to save for old age, and we have been able to read and hear about an increasing number of unhappy seniors. The word, poor pensioner, was a concept that none of us thought we were going to hear. However, the concerns these people feel and the low level they live on are not something that we can ignore in this House. One measure of the fact that you are in a worse position is the people who live on guaranteed pensions in whole or in part. 657,000 Swedish pensioners receive it, and four out of five are women. The Pension Authority's forecast shows that the proportion of older people with relatively low economic standards will increase in the future. Again, this applies especially to women. Sadly, we also have a higher proportion of pensioners in the risk group compared with our Nordic neighbours. Previously, Sweden had the least share in the group with the lowest income, but now we have the largest share. It's not a good development. Precisely basic protection for the elderly has a major impact on the economic standard for the elderly, i.e. how you manage to live your life in everyday life at the age n s autumn. This is particularly true of older single women, who are in the most difficult situation. Again, it's the women. Many of these women have worked but may have been home for a few years when the children were small or worked part-time or had jobs in the public sector with poor pay. All this has a negative impact on pensions. We cannot continue to let women be the great losers. For this particular group, the housing supplement is particularly important. The support is a right and a complement to the pension, which unfortunately is not applied for by everyone. Both house prices and rents have risen, which is why it is important to raise both the rent ceiling and the level of the supplement and also the free amounts. We have set aside SEK 431 million in the budget for this very purpose. I am pleased that we in this House broadly agree that basic protection needs to be increased and that we are working on this in the Pensions Group. This is something that many of us promised in the election campaign. One difficulty, however, is to make sure that the person who has worked actually gets a little more than the one who has not worked. I think we can all agree that it must pay off to work and to have worked. We in the committee note that the government describes this very point in the budget proposal but has refrained from presenting any conclusions on the problems. The reason is that you are a transitional government. But this Parliament is not a transitional Parliament, and social problems require solutions outside the Riksdag, even when we, as we are now, have been standing. That is why we are presenting our proposals and our budget. We Moderates, together with the Christian Democrats, lower the tax on pensions more than the government with the Social Democrats and the Green Party does. Tax reduction is probably the best way to achieve a higher economic standard for Swedish pensioners. We Moderates want Sweden to stick together. I think we all want this. With our budget, we therefore strengthen the welfare of municipalities and county councils by 5 billion extra in addition to what the government has presented in its budget. This also comes to Sweden's sickest and oldest seniors. We Moderates say that one should be able to rely on the state to carry out its basic tasks and ensure that Sweden's pensioners can live on their pension. But it is fundamental that we keep looking at this in modern welfare and that it should follow the developments that are taking place. This deserves all those who have built up Sweden. Finally, I would like to thank both the committee secretariat and the office of the nurse for her work during the autumn and wish you all a happy new year and a Merry Christmas.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-108	Madam President, I would like Anyone who takes part in the Moderate and Christian Democrats budget reservation can get the impression that the housing supplement will be raised as early as mid 2019. It is an unfortunate signal because it is a timetable that is not feasible, something that Katarina Brännström and the Moderates are well aware of. We agree in the Pensions Group on a basic protection package that includes improvements to both the guarantee pension and the housing supplement. We have worked intensively in the group during the autumn to deliver this even by 2020. Our joint proposal, to which the Moderates and the Christian Democrats refer, is not only an increase in existing remuneration levels and appropriations, but also includes new bases of calculation, which require referrals and preparations and therefore more time. My benevolent interpretation is that the so-called forwarding is a mistake and that the Moderates and Christian Democrats have simply made a mistake in this napkin sketch for a budget reservation. Surely it cannot be the case that we want to give the impression that we have a different level of ambition from the other parties in the Pensions Group, even though we have knowledge of the preparation process that awaits us? I would therefore like to give Katarina Brännström a chance to make it clear here that the Moderates are behind the whole of the Pensions Group's settlement regarding improved basic protection in terms of both content and implementation and that, unfortunately, the increase in funding will not be implemented as early as the Moderates and Christian Democrats promise in their budget reservation.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-112	Madam President, I would like I think it is good that we agree on this important reform in the Pensions Group and elsewhere. It is clear that there is an opportunity for a new government to give priority to this issue if you wish. Teresa Carvalho said in her speech that the previous government has raised the housing allowance twice in parallel with the Pensions Group. So it is perfectly possible to do this, so it should not be a problem. We have set aside money because we think this is an urgent issue. We have raised the level of ambition, so there is no mistake on our part. If it is not technically possible, we will have to wait until it becomes possible, but we show that we want to do so. We do not think that the country's pensioners really want to wait that long, and that is why we have raised the issue. As I said, previous governments have done this, and it has gone well. Then we can do the same.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-115	Madam President, I would like There is a big difference compared to when the S-led government raised the housing supplement because we then made an increase in an existing system. Now it is a major change work that requires more preparation, referrals and time, which I know Katarina Brännström is well aware of. But it is not only with the date part that the Moderates and Christian Democrats have been careless. I can take another example, namely the income test for the housing supplement. I cannot imagine that the Moderates want occupational and private pensions for self-employed workers to be taken into account 100%. It would be a transfer of position away from the principle that work should pay off. I think they want it to be equated with work-related income. But now there are many of us who want to know: have the Moderates put forward the proposal because they do not want incentives for work in the housing supplement, or is this another mistake that needs to be corrected?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-118	Madam President, I would like It is interesting to hear the Social Democrats. As soon as it is not the Social Democrats who make a proposal, it is wrong, and then it is always a mistake or they say: Yes, you can. During the eight years of alliance, we showed how much you can do if you want to. This is particularly true of the tax cuts that we made, which meant much more in the wallet for pensioners, nurses and many others. As far as the housing supplement is concerned, it is an urgent addition. We have shown a level of ambition that is higher than that of the government, and we have set aside money for this. If this does not become technically possible, then we will have to regret and wait another six months before it can be possible. It's not harder than that. I promise that we will work to ensure that Sweden's pensioners get it much better than they have had it over the last four years.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-121	Madam President, I would like Involuntary loneliness is as much a risk factor for premature death as smoking. Many large and good campaigns have we all seen about the harmful effects of smoking, but how many campaigns have we seen about the risks of involuntary loneliness? Madam President, I would like When I was offered to be a top candidate on the list of Christian Democrats in Örebro County, it was a decision that I made with a little agony, because I already had a job that I loved a lot. The fact that I finally accepted was really for two main reasons. One was to be here in Parliament and to shape and make decisions, so that Sweden stays together and where we live with and not next to each other. The second reason was to do something about the loneliness and isolation that I have seen at such close quarters as parishioner and priest. Many conversations with elderly lonely people have created in me a very strong desire to be involved in shaping a society in which our elderly people can feel both security and dignity. In Britain, the government has now set up a minister against loneliness. In Sweden, however, it is unfortunately very quiet if we exclude the Christian Democratic attempts to bring this issue to the surface. Why is loneliness such a big problem? I usually talk about something else, that there's always someone else who should do something. It is a way of describing it, that is, we have created a society in which we have deliberately tried to free up our ties to each other – a kind of state individualism, if you like. In the society that we have, it is always someone else's responsibility to reach out a helping or welcoming hand. Politics, of course, does not create relationships, communities, humanity and so on; you and I do. But politics can create the conditions. In this work, I think it is important that we as politicians bring not only the physical needs but also the social, mental and spiritual needs. We must not forget them. We Christian Democrats believe that civil society has a key role to play in trying to create these meeting places that are so important, also because it is in civil society that we meet, that is where values are created, that is where we actually live them out and that is where confidence in the future is created. In civil society, you can feed and fatten both fear and hatred, but there, too, love, consideration and responsibility can be something that we highlight. In the budget presented by the Christian Democrats and the Moderates, which is essentially an alliance budget, there are investments in the elderly and in the care of the elderly. Katarina Brännström from the Moderates has very nicely described what has been the motive and how we have landed in the decisions of the common KD and M budget. This budget, in addition to what is covered under our Category 11, includes an investment in a retirement home billion for more retirement homes. There are investments in more shelters, better staff continuity in care for the elderly, awareness raising around dementia and a new elderly lift for the health of the elderly. In this area, Christian Democrats and Moderates also have some proposals. However, I would like to start by saying that I think it is important that we strengthen incentives and opportunities for older people to stay longer in the labour market. That is why the proposal to remove the so-called payroll tax for older people from 1 July next year is important. There is an enormous amount of expertise and experience in the elderly that Sweden needs. Then it is directly contradictory to have a special wage tax for the elderly. On the same date, 1 July 2019, we want to increase the housing allowance for pensioners. The housing allowance is important because it is a accurate way to reach low-income pensioners. It is also important because in this budget from the Christian Democrats and the Moderates there is a strong focus on that we want more people to be able to afford to move to adapted housing with community opportunities. Thus, nearly a quarter of a million older people today live below what is called low economic standards. It's a struggle for them every month to get the pension enough. They may not be so cheap to their surroundings, but they are definitely cheap to themselves. I have seen at close range how these people constantly put themselves in second place to afford something to their environment. Therefore, it is important that we reduce the tax for all over 65 years of age, not only for those who have a pension exceeding SEK 17 200. These proposals in the M-KD budget mean for a pensioner with 14 000 SEK in retirement that he or she receives 1 300 SEK more per year to move with. The tax reduction in combination with the housing supplement can give this pensioner an opportunity to get an additional SEK 750 per month to manage their lives with, a reinforcement that is absolutely welcome. Dignity doesn't feel age. Ultimately, I think that a senior-friendly society, which we want to create, is about ethics and decency. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-135	Madam President, I would like I am making another attempt to ask my question, now to the Member of the Christian Democrats. As I have said, this hash work for budget reservation from the Moderates and Christian Democrats can give the impression that there will already be an increase in the housing allowance until mid-2019, despite the fact that the Moderates and Christian Democrats are well aware that it is not feasible because it is a major change effort that is on our table. It is much more extensive than when the S-led government only increased the remuneration levels of the existing system. But let's put it aside. I still believe that there is an understanding of this. Nevertheless, I think it is a pity that the country's pensioners are getting the impression of an increase which will then not be able to be delivered. Then let me ask Mr Eklind the question which Katarina Brännström from the Moderates obviously did not understand properly and which relates to your proposal for a new income test in the housing supplement. You say that occupational pension and private pension for self-employed workers should be 100%. I do not think that is what the Christian Democrats and the Moderates mean. I believe that they agree with the rest of the P ension group that it should be treated as income pension and work-related income. Nevertheless, I put the question to Mr Eklind: have the Christian Democrats and the Moderates put forward this proposal because, after all, they do not want an incentive for work in the housing supplement, or is this another mistake? If so, how do the Christian Democrats and the Moderates intend to deal with this mess?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-138	Madam President, I would like I'm a little surprised by the criticism. Of course, we are responsible for our ambition that the government should return to Parliament with a bill that the housing allowance for pensioners should be increased to SEK 7 000 per month, i.e. that we bring it forward by six months, until 1 July 2019 instead of 1 January 2020. What surprises me, however, is that this criticism is delivered from the Social Democracy. Maybe you haven't really cleaned your own house, I think. On May 1st, the Social Democracy promised that those with the lowest income would receive up to SEK 600 more a month. It was also interesting that on May 1 the Social Democrats also stated that they would bring this up in the Parliamentary Group of the Party of European Socialists. But – and this is an important but – they also added that if the Social Democrats did not get support for this, the reform would be implemented anyway – the tax route. In Almedalen, Stefan Löfven and Magdalena Andersson had a special press conference about how the pension should be designed and so on. Of course, we can criticise the fact that we have proposals in this area where we are lifting out some of them and bringing them forward. But I find it hard to understand why you criticize what you do. Former governments have done this, and we want to do it. I say as Katarina Brännström said to you, Teresa Carvalho, that if it does not work, this question may depend on 1 January. But, Madam President, we have therefore put forward a proposal in which we are clear about the level of ambition that we have, which is linked to a variety of things. It's a accurate way to help those we really want to help.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-141	Madam President, I would like I note that the Christian Democrats are critical of us Social Democrats presenting proposals that would raise pensions for those with the lowest income pensions. I'll let it speak for itself. I can also note that Mr Eklind is confused that I am standing here criticising the Christian Democrats for promising in their budget reservation an increase in the housing allowance which I know the Moderates and Christian Democrats are aware cannot be delivered within that timetable. That's why I'm asking questions. Can Hans Eklind stand here and guarantee an increase in the housing supplement in 2019? No, obviously not, we've been told. His Eklind and the Moderates still owe me the answer to the second question: have you tabled the proposal for a new income assessment in the housing supplement in accordance with the Pensions Group's proposal, to which you refer, but with the misconception that the pension should be accepted 100% instead of being treated as work-related income?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-144	Madam President, I would like This area of expenditure is, of course, very much about money. For me, however, it is interesting to note that the criticism of the proposals agreed by Moderates and Christian Democrats is about technology, or the tempo, in the decision-making process itself and not about the substance. I think the important thing in this House is that we, both the Moderates and the Christian Democrats, have been clear that we want to raise the housing allowance from 1 July next year. That is the mission we want to give the government, and that is in the decision. They have to get back to it. When we get a government right now is a little bit written in the stars, but it will come back with this. If it is now technically impossible to bring forward what the Pensions Group has agreed to on 1 July, then we must wait. Harder than that, I don't think it is. What is important is that we lower the tax on pensions and want to add by inserting the housing supplement on this issue.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-147	Madam President, I would like We are now going to debate the Social Security Committee's report SfU3 on Category 12 Economic security for families and children. It is an area in which we Social Democrats choose to refrain from taking part in the decision, for reasons I will give. What really happened in the autumn of 2018? Yes, right now we can sum up the days since 9 September by going through everything from the presidential vote to the Prime Minister vote and the budget vote. We can talk about that practice has either changed or broken; what you choose to say depends probably on which shoes you stand in. We cannot, of course, know what we will say in the future about this autumn, but I hope that we will see that it was an exception in Swedish politics and that the parties that claim to seek order and order also made sure to live up to it in practice. In many situations we have seen this autumn there has not been a clear practice, and then the practice is that we settle things together – for example through dialogue between parties. This was also the case with the transitional government's budget. Conversations were held between parties that might sit in or support a government or its budget. The Social Democrats, the Moderates, the Center Party, the Left Party, the Christian Democrats, the Liberals and the Green Party have all been involved in discussing the principles on which this budget is based. That is why, Madam President, many were surprised when many of these parties nevertheless chose to exercise on the transitional budget. The House has voted through a framework for committees based on a mix of the Moderates' and Christian Democrats' draft budgets, and then there are some further amendments that none of them had included from the outset. It has caused great concern in many committees when one does not know what the decision made in this House will actually mean in the respective area of expenditure. The Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party have chosen not to present their own budget movements this autumn, and it is for the simple reason that we believe that an incoming government should be able to shape its own policies and reforms – in accordance with the principles of the transitional budget. We probably thought that more people would reason that way after the cross-party talks, where we agreed. Now it is said that Parliament is not a transitional holiday, and that is true. We are an elected assembly, and one of our most important tasks is to appoint a prime minister. After more than 100 days, we have not yet reached that point. Madam President, I would like A transitional budget is not a fun reading. It really is only about the most necessary thing that is needed for a country to continue to be ruled without major disasters along the way. It is well prepared but contains neither election promises nor much-needed reforms. For most of those who have followed the debates this autumn, it is no secret that we Social Democrats would have wanted to do more and more that is not included or allowed in a transitional budget. During the last parliamentary term, we began a journey in which equality is a pervasive theme. If not all people take part in the progress of a society, we do not believe that society can be regarded as having made progress either. It can therefore be seen that the groups that were highlighted above all with a Social Democratic-led government were those that were otherwise pushed back: people on low incomes, women and families with children. We believe in a general welfare where we all contribute what we can and also share what we need. This includes well-developed parental insurance, untested child benefits and opportunities for individuals to shape their own future and existence according to their dreams – not by the size of their relatives' wallets. Madam President, I would like The number of holiday days per year is regulated by the Holiday Act. The law says that a full-time employee is entitled to 25 days per year, and collective agreements may give him a few more days. At the same time, children have far more days away from school and preschool than that per year. It's a little hard to get that equation together, especially for single parents. That's why we Social Democrats launched what we call a family week this summer. These are additional days that can be taken by the parents to cover up for unplanned leave, such as study days. Like other parental insurance, this gives children access to their parents – but also the opposite. Sweden tops the world over countries to grow up in as a child, and our family policy has played a major role there. With safe children, we create safe adults and a society where we take care of each other. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, we did not have the opportunity to introduce our family week this autumn. I hope, of course, that we will get another chance as soon as possible. If we are to continue to be the best in the class when it comes to children's growing-up conditions, a Social Democratic-led government is required. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the President, the Chamber, the staff of the cabinet and the other members of the committee for an interesting – I have to say – autumn. I wish you all a really nice Christmas and a happy new year!
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-160	Madam President, I would like For the Swedish Democrats, the family is one of the central and most important building blocks in Swedish society. Our starting point is always that the best interests of the child should be taken into account in all situations in the area of family policy. We attach great importance to the fact that we politicians give families a flexible space to make choices on the basis of their own circumstances and make us critical of incentives such as quotas or limiting family choices. Since each family has its own unique conditions, we should also start from a pragmatic and simple approach without losing focus on the child, which is ultimately at the heart of our family policy. We welcome the fact that more parties are now increasingly critical of quotas, and we welcome the recent decision by the House not to set up another father month. We believe that binding incentives such as quotas, which some parties are strongly in favour of, are not the right way to go. A Sifo survey commissioned by the Family First shows that 76 percent of the parents surveyed respond that the family should decide for itself. There are several similar studies with the same results. This is also reflected in everyday life among families. We see examples of families where children because of this particular force have fewer days at home and in other words are left earlier in preschool. The days are just burning inside, as the other parent for various reasons has not had the opportunity to take time off even if a desire existed. Not least, we see this among the self-employed, who have been severely affected. We also see families affected. Economic room for manoeuvre there can be considerably reduced depending on who is at home, for example in cases where one parent is unemployed and the other is working. We understand that families look after their family's interests and that alternatives are carefully weighed to ensure that they have the best everyday life possible. You may even be able to stay at home a little longer with your children depending on who is on parental leave. I believe that parenthood is a teamwork where both contribute in the best way to bringing together everyday life. At the same time, we note the eagerness of the red-greens to see the mother as a victim in the role of mother and to make it to be something bad with political points to be at home instead of something that is privileged. One forgets to look at it from an unpolitical point of view, and the desire to poke and govern the private life of families cannot be made clearer. Madam President, I would like However, we Swedish democrats believe that the status of taking responsibility and being with your children should be strengthened, of course, no matter who takes responsibility. Working is important, and having an equal income and – not least – pension is extremely important. At the same time, however, it is significant years of children's lives that many today are rushing through because of anxiety about losing income and career. Here we should have another thought, so that family life and working life can be better combined than today and so that we have more prosperous and balanced families. Today, too many parents end up in burnout and stress. We simply need to send out other signals. Making it easier for families to distribute parental days without it playing a major economic role is probably better than quotas. We propose that the ceiling on parental insurance should be increased from 10 to 12 amounts of the price base and that the compensation should be increased from 80 to 85 %. That's what makes us lower the loss of income. The parent with a higher income should be able to stay at home without affecting the economy of families as much as it does today. The economic conditions should not govern who is at home. Instead, this is where the gunpowder should be placed to increase the possibility for parents to be at home on the same premises. We also know that, above all, low-income people and single people have a financially tough situation as parents. There, contributions are a significant part of disposable income. With that in mind, we want to make some changes. We intend to create a more means-tested system in which the housing allowance is strengthened instead of general benefits such as child benefit. Child benefit is a good reform that we like, but the question is whether it is aimed right when it is fully a general contribution. That is why we choose to reduce the child allowance, which increases significantly after children three, and to use the latest increase in child allowance of SEK 200 to invest this money instead to increase the housing allowance. This means that the economically weakest get the support that is needed, as we also describe in RUT 2018: 1184. It may not have been the intention from the outset that the child allowance and the multi-child allowance in some households are saved on high while other families at best live on the economic goal line each month. We also propose to set up a first-born allowance, which is a lump sum which can be applied for in support of the purchase of, for example, car seats or carriages. We know that there are high costs associated with the first child and that, above all, wagon and car seat are essential products, not least from a safety point of view. With our family policy, the Swedish Democrats also want parents to be given the opportunity to be equally involved right from the start of pregnancy. Therefore, we are committed to giving both parents financial opportunities to leave work to participate in maternity care visits right from the start of pregnancy. It is important that this opportunity exists. These are significant ultrasound examinations carried out during the first and second trimesters of pregnancy, and we do not see today that there is any financial support for the other parent to participate in these. To further improve the conditions for our prospective parents, we want to make it easier for the mother to be granted pregnancy allowance, the former pregnancy allowance. The legislation on the pregnancy allowance needs to be reviewed, so that the person who has a physically strenuous job is also granted this. As it is now, it is difficult to get it granted, which leads to a number of women working highly pregnant with problems and ailments and often with physically strenuous tasks. It doesn't make sense. In combination with a review, we also want to introduce ten pregnancy days, which can be taken one month before the expected birth, in order to create the best conditions, with the chance of preparation, peace and harmony for childbirth. Those days shall be unconditional and shall be paid as a temporary parental allowance. This also means that most of the parenting days remain until the time they are intended for: after the child is born. Madam President, I would like Finally, we from the Swedish Democrats have no reservation in calling for approval, as our framework budget was larger than that decided on. However, I would like to refer to our specific opinion.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-179	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Linda Lindberg, for the opportunity to ask one or more questions – we will see what time is enough! First of all, the Swedish Democrats have chosen, as the honourable Member mentioned in his speech, to vote for a framework that is considerably lower than what the Swedish Democrats wanted to do according to their budget motion. I think this is a little out of line with the ambitions they claim to have. Secondly, the honourable Member spoke in his speech about the fact that parental insurance is a private matter and nothing that concerns politics. Then it is strange that political decisions are behind what parental insurance should look like. I and the Social Democrats think that society's resources should be used for what society feels best about. We believe that an equal society is better than an unequal society. We can also see that what gives the best effect is an equal withdrawal in parental insurance. There is talk of different basic levels such as that this would be the key to how people choose to take out parental insurance – because if it is women or men who take out the bulk. But we can see that this has little effect. For those who are better at taking parental insurance on an equal footing are not low-income earners but rather high-income earners, and this is particularly true where women are high-income earners. The question above all to Mrs Linda Lindberg is: Why did the Swedish Democrats choose to vote for a lower framework that makes it impossible for the efforts you say you want to make in this area?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-185	Madam President, I would like Of course, we chose to support our own budget. When it fell, we took a holistic approach to the issue. That is why our decision to vote on the budget of M and KD, which we generally see as a better option than the one that was in favour of decision-making, was made. That's a lot of questions. We from the Swedish Democrats are convinced that the quota days are not the right way to go, but the families themselves should be able to decide and control their everyday lives. Of course, it is the role of politics to conduct a policy that offers choices for the individual, so of course it is linked to politics. But it is not our job to be inside and poking and ruling in the everyday lives of families.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-187	Madam President, I would like Nor do the Socialdemocrats want to control how parents choose to take their days. If you want to be at home with your children or not, you can rule as you please. On the other hand, society may not be a substitute. If you want to be home longer than parental leave, you can be, but society should not support it. Then I just want to give a little tip to the Swedish Democrats. There are eight parties in Parliament, and seven of them act in a certain way. The eighth chooses to go against practice over and over again, so you cannot really trust where the Swedish Democrats stand on various issues. As Linda Lindberg said earlier, they first chose to vote for their own proposal, and then voted for the next one. It is contrary to what all other parties choose to do, which I personally find a bit tricky.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-189	Madam President, I would like I can understand that Emilia Töyrä thinks it is tricky. If, however, we had chosen to vote for the Social Democrats' budget, it might not have been as tricky. You are standing here, Emilia, saying that you do not want to be in and poking in the everyday lives of families, but that is really exactly what you do when we choose to stick to proposing more quota days.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-191	Madam President, I would like I shall begin as I began my previous speech by saying that in the first stage of the budgetary process, a different spending framework has been decided than that proposed by the Center Party. That is why we will abstain from voting on the decision in this area, which concerns families and children. The Centre Party's budgetary options need to be seen in their entirety and not in small parts, as it means when we deal with the budget based on areas. That is why we believe that an area cannot be broken out, but that our budget should be seen as a whole. If you want to see the content of our budget, you should look at the party motion 2018/ 19:2610. There we note from the Center Party that a lot of proposals and reforms are needed in Sweden to help make things that apply to families and children much better. This means that we simply want to invest in the labour market and the possibility of entering the labour market, because it is important for everyone, not least parents. One of the problems in the budget is that it has not invested enough in this. That is why we believe it is important that we invest in ensuring that parental insurance is equal and provides the same opportunities to use for entrepreneurs. We know that it is tricky for entrepreneurs to be able to use parental insurance. That is why we want to see better parental insurance adapted to entrepreneurs, because it is the entrepreneurs who create the jobs. This means that their security systems must be adapted to their circumstances. In the footsteps of integration, it is of course important that we have more companies and thus opportunities for more parents to enter the labour market. From the point of view of equality, Madam President, it is important that parental leave – and how to divide it – should be more equal and, I would say, completely equal. Therefore, it is important to invest in the right things. Then it's a matter of giving carrots. From the Center Party we want to see an increase in the gender equality bonus as a larger carrot for parents to share equally when you have different incomes. It is also important to review pension rights so that they are shared between parents during childhood years. As a result, the Center Party believes that it is incredibly important for the Pension Agency, as we talked about in the previous debate, to have an opportunity to interact with interested parties with whom parents come into contact – such as maternity care, Försäkringskassan, Skatteverket, banks, schools and so on – so that they can inform about what it means if you do not have an equal withdrawal of parental insurance. We know that the income of life and the future pension belong together. Therefore, it is important to get information about it during life and when making different positions. Swedish parental insurance is the world's most generous. We know that, and we are proud of that in Sweden. So we could be content, but not, because from the Center Party we think there are many things to change and improve. I would like to mention a small detail of parental insurance today, namely that different withdrawals may be made during different periods during parental leave of guarantee days, minimum level days and ordinary days – things that are difficult for parents to know about. This creates an unequal withdrawal from parental insurance. In our party motion, Madam President, we describe the focus on the Parental Policy of the Center Party. We believe that the future government, which should not have a transitional budget, should clarify what we in the Center Party intend to do on these issues. As I said earlier, I promise to come back with the details in that context. Before I finish, Madam President, I would like to address the officials here in Parliament and thank them for their work on busy days and nights that have enabled us to conclude this parliamentary term in a good way with debates that we have now had. We all know how much you have worked and that there have been very irregular working hours. With this I wish you all a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. I suppose you deserve it.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-200	Madam President, I would like For the first time in our country's history, an unpolitical transitional budget would be managed. The reason for this is that the parliamentary parties have not yet been able to resolve the government issue, and Sweden therefore has a transitional government. The Left Party has not presented its own budget because there is no government to oppose. Seven parties in the Swedish Parliament agreed on the principles on which a transitional budget would be based. The bourgeois parties demanded that certain things should not be included in the transitional budget while others could exist. We all agreed on these principles. The bourgeois parties have thus themselves participated in this process, banished the government and then presented their own budget movements. I think this is quite remarkable. A budget bill can certainly go through the Riksdag; it has happened before. But then you must have the capacity to rule yourself. Voters must be able to demand responsibility from politicians. But the far right has been voted out as a government formation and cannot rule. Yet, they have put their politics through the back door. A transitional government is forbidden to call new elections, as was last done. I believe that this is problematic and that some parties lack respect for the rules of democracy. It is unserious and causes people to lose confidence in politics. It is also a great betrayal that the Center Party and the Liberals had the blue-brown budget passed. Do these parties not care about the people who feel racism in their bodies? Anyone who voted for the Center Party or the Liberals in order to stand up to the racists is probably now gaping over the actions of these parties in this House. After all, it seems to me that it was more important for these parties to reduce taxes on high-paid workers, to reduce job-seekers' efforts, to slaughter the environmental budget and to tax-finance gardeners in wealthy households than to defend democracy. The blue-brown outer edge budget is a proper cutback budget. 20 billion will be cut into our welfare. This means that teachers will have less time with students, that it will take longer in the emergency room and that the size of the children's groups in preschool will grow further. To be able to have a family requires a strong welfare with well-functioning preschools that you can have children on without a bad conscience and an elderly care that works and is professional. When the blue-browns now cut back on welfare, it is often the women who pay. They get to do more people's work, run in the corridors and go down in working hours to make it impossible to cope with stress or to cover up for a preschool or an elderly care that does not work. It is Parliament's blue-brown parties that give us women the pain in our shoulders and the stress of our eyes. I have looked through the budgets of the various parties. In the Swedish Democrats' budget, the richest tenth gets twice as much as the poorest. The Moderates are worse; here the richest tenth gets three times as much as the poorest. But, my friends, the Liberals beat all the records by giving the richest tenth so much in increased income that it becomes more than for the entire rest of the population taken together. Men get twice as much as women. These parties want the economic divide to increase and for us to have really poor and really rich in society. It is a kind of medieval view of people and society. During the last parliamentary term, the Left Party managed to ensure that maintenance support for single people was increased three times over. We raised the housing allowance for the first time in years. We made big efforts to get smaller groups of children at preschool. We got through efforts on maternity care and on reducing birth injuries. We were involved in raising the child allowance, the multi-child allowance and the study allowance. Family policy should contribute to a good economic standard of living for all families with children and reduce the differences in economic conditions between households with and without children. It shall contribute to equal parenthood. Let me mention that the Christian Democrats' contribution to this is to raise the fees to preschool. Every tenth child sees Dad beating Mom at home. Although many women and girls today feel the fear of sexual violence when they go home at night or cross the square after a night out, the home is in fact the most dangerous place for women. Over the past year we have heard a flood of stories under #metoo about how the poor women's view is also found among managers, colleagues, customers and consultants. It is degrading, integrity-defying and sometimes very traumatic childhood memories that have been recounted. We need to do all we can to smooth out these power relations and to stop, prevent and counter physical and psychological violence against children and women. We should be able to feel safe at home, at work and out on the street. It is then a slap in the mouth against all women that the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats lay down the authority that will work on this very thing. When women finally dare to tell us, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats respond by reducing and invisible us and do not value the work that many women's movements have done to build a coordinated and powerful work for greater gender equality. It is as the prosecutor at the National Unit for International and Organised Crime says: The closure of the Equality Agency is a very good proposal – for sex buyers, human traffickers, heavy tyers and people who exploit beggars. The blue-brown budget means that no one is now responsible for this work. As a result, more women will be subjected to violence and abuse. I do not think there are many women today who thank the Moderates, the Christian Democrats or the Swedish Democrats for that. We will change this direction. We are many people who think that the work against violence and gender equality is not something that should be ignored. The Swedish Democrats, the Christian Democrats and the Moderates once again show what old-fashioned parties they are, who remain in a kind of patriarchal medieval age. But their time will soon be over. Madam President, I would like In so doing, I would like to refer to our specific opinion.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-221	Madam President, I would like We heard from the Left Party in a previous change of line that the Center Party lied about how it took a stand in the budget debate. Let me be extremely clear that the Center Party is not lying. Since we have a transitional budget, it means, as I said a few minutes ago, that when Sweden has a government that presents a proper budget, we will also present a draft budget that contains our points in the budget. When I listen to the Left Party, I am surprised to hear nothing about any investment in job opportunities. You don't talk about how to make it possible for parents to work more. Then, of course, my question is: how can we increase the level of compensation according to the level of compensation without helping to ensure that we also have more jobs and more people coming to work? It is, of course, companies and jobs that provide income to society that can be invested in improvements. But the Left Party does not say a word about how to enable more entrepreneurs and more jobs. I wonder why.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-224	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Zander for the question. Again, it is not me that Solveig Zander needs to answer to, but the Swedish people. In the election movement, the Center Party said: We will never release a policy that is dependent on the Swedish Democrats. But that is exactly what the Center Party has done. It was therefore not true that we were going to do everything possible to prevent a policy based on Sweden's democratic mandate. Other issues were clearly more important: to remove money from welfare, to ensure that the Employment Service received less resources and everything else in this disaster budget, such as the closure of the Equality Agency. I believe that this is very serious and that the Center Party has not stood by its word. I think everyone who looks at this debate can agree with that. Abstention is the same as putting forward a policy, but it obviously does not understand Solveig Zander. I talked quite a lot and a long time about how we together build a society that allows people to work. People should be able to have their children safely in preschool in order to be able to work the hours needed to make a living. We need to have strong care for the elderly so that women do not have to feel that they have to take care of Grandma and Grandma, because that means going down in working hours. This requires strong efforts and investment in training people and in welfare. In both these areas, both the Center Party budget and the blue-brown budget represent huge cuts. This means that many people are displaced to the home. It's your policy.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-228	Madam President, I would like To invest strongly in society and in opportunities for parents is not about it raining money from the sky, but money for the welfare and for the development of society comes from people working and that we have companies in this country that contribute to the development of Sweden. One important thing that I presented is that we want to make more equal parental insurance for entrepreneurs. But the fact that we have more entrepreneurs is clearly not something the Left Party wants to contribute to. As far as the budget is concerned, we have said that we are abstaining. We have voted yellow. If we had voted green, it would have been a budget, we would have voted red – no – it would have been another budget. We abstained. And the Center Party doesn't lie.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-231	Madam President, I would like I think everyone at this point understands what has happened. The Centre Party has abstained, and that is why the Swedish democratic budget has been passed. That's what happened. Those who get one more penny without working another minute are the country's millionaires. They are the ones who are now getting huge tax cuts without lifting a single finger. My view is that we should have invested this in education and in more employees in our preschools and our care for the elderly. It would have created more jobs, more people working and also more hours worked. Now there are a lot of people who do not need the money and will not work another second who get a lot of tax cuts that are completely unjustified. I think it is short-term policy. It creates economic gaps, and this means that many people cannot participate in the world of work.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-233	Madam President, I would like When I came here today, I thought we were going to debate financial security for parents and children. I feel that this debate is taking a completely different turn. We're talking about things that belong to other committees. But I can't help but get up and respond to what we heard earlier. That's right – we Liberals want it to pay off both to educate and to work. We want it to be possible to train in the so-called women-dominated professions. We want you to be able to read from nurse to nurse or from nanny to preschool teacher and that it will pay off. Student loans will be taken, and then, as it stands today, you will receive higher wages because of the state tax. That's what we want to change. I can't see what's the problem with that.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-234	Madam President, I would like I thank Emma Carlsson Löfdahl for her reply. The Liberals' budget means that the ten richest per cent in Sweden get as much in increased income as the entire rest of the population combined and twice as much as women. It is a medieval view of society that the richest should become even richer, immensely richer, and that men should have much more money and power than women. It is not suitable for a liberal party, I think. It is women who work in the public sector. Their entire salary is financed by the tax. If you reduce taxes, you give money from the public sector to the private sector. This reduces the resources to pay more midwives, nurses and child care workers. Then we must also make cuts, and that is what has happened in Sweden in recent years. We would need 50 billion more in money in the coming years just to maintain the quality and level we have today," says Sweden's Municipalities and County Council. What the Liberals are doing then is putting through a budget that makes huge cuts. I defend the Swedish model, with an equalising and powerful welfare system where there is high employment for women and where we can create equal relations. But if you cut so much, privatize so much, remove all educational efforts from Arbetsförmedlingen and shut down the Gender Equality Agency, we are back in Sweden in the 1930s. Then I wonder: Is this what the Liberal melody is now?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-237	Madam President, I would like As I said, I thought we were discussing financial security for parents and children. But we end up in a lot of other places in the debate. What I see clearly in this debate is that we differ very strongly ideologically. We want it to pay off to train and work. We want more people to get into work; this will give us more tax revenue. We Liberals want to fight poverty but not wealth, and that is what separates us. You in the Left Party want to fight wealth and want everyone to be equally poor.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-239	Madam President, I would like You do not give more people jobs if you so draconically make cuts in the educational efforts that the unemployed should receive through the Employment Service. If you make so much cuts that you cannot invest in more education, so that people can be matched to jobs, and if you do not want a strong welfare, so that parents can work and so that we have preschool and care for the elderly that works, then you get less employment. Just go out into the world and look at those countries that lack well-being. They do not have a very high level of employment. Not many women work there. This is the dilemma. You don't want to invest in people and in welfare. You're saying that people should work. But then you have to invest in welfare and in people.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-240	Madam President, I would like I have asked for a reply because I am personally surprised and amazed at the frenzy that Nooshi Dadgostar spends on mocking and muzzling Parliament's decisions. I heard Nooshi Dadgostar from the speaker's chair say that the far right had been put down in the Prime Minister's vote. I heard her say the Center and Liberals voted for the racists. I would like an explanation from Nooshi Dadgostar on the description of the Moderates and Christian Democrats that she has delivered here today. We can start there.
i-4nLaugM3uJMo8DyHGpUaLQ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, AnnAnn-Sofie Alm, for the question! It's not my concern that I'm describing. It is not we who sit here who should be happy or sad. There are people out there who are extremely concerned that the Moderates, together with the Christian Democrats, have made room for a nationalist fascist party to have a major impact on political development. It is not I who am most worried, but it is many ordinary people outside the Parliament House that I perceive that Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm has never spoken to. That's what it looks like in real life. That is also why I describe the concerns of the speaker's seat. A lot of people feel it in their bodies. They feel it in the labour market when they are discriminated against, out in the pub and in preschool when babies scream at people with different skin color. I believe that it is the duty of the decent parties to resist this and not to provide a racist party with the opportunity to influence so much in Swedish politics. For me it is not a non-question and something that I say to Ann-Ann-Sofi Alm so that Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm will feel in one way or another. I'm saying it because it's really important. Little children told me in the election campaign: Is it that I will now be sent back to a country where I have never been? What's gonna happen to my parents? It really affects families and children. I wish Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm could take this seriously.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-245	Madam President, I would like I can't hear the explanation I wanted. Nor do I hear the apology of Nooshi Dadgostar that I think would have been appropriate. However, I will explain to you why the budget decision last week was so important. It is because over half a million people live in the residential areas that are vulnerable. They can't wait for us to form a government. They can't wait for the police to get the resources they need. Children's groups can't wait to get smaller. We need a budget for that. We have set aside 400 billion for smaller groups of children. As far as the Equality Agency is concerned, we do not need an authority for every social problem. We need to solve the problems. That is why it is important that we have a budget in place.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-248	Madam President, I would like I can tell Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm that we who live in, for example, Botkyrka, like myself, do not vote for the Moderates. We do not need any more cuts and tax cuts. We do not need 20 billion to the millionaires in the inner city of Stockholm. We need investments in our preschools and in our care for the elderly, and in our schools that do not provide enough quality for our children. That's what we need. AnnAnn-Sofie Alm doesn't have to stand here and tell me that their politics will support my residential area. None of us have voted for Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm's party.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-249	Madam President, I would like I am grateful that we are back to discussing what we came here for, security for parents and children. We have parental insurance in Sweden that includes opportunities for parents to be at home in connection with a child's birth or adoption. Similarly, you have the opportunity to be home from work when the child is sick. That is what we today call vab, care of children, but which is actually called temporary parental allowance. This is an insurance policy that we should be proud of. When I meet people from other countries and we start comparing our different insurance policies in the different countries, we realize that we have incredible insurance. But everything can get better. Families can look in a lot of ways. Everyone should have the opportunity to combine the parenting role with gainful employment. It is important, as far as possible, that both parents have the opportunity to take parental leave and be with their children – both for the sake of equality and because the children need both their parents and have a need to connect with them both. We Liberals are sketching a comprehensive reform of parental insurance, but it will not affect the next financial year. I would therefore ask you to come back to that proposal later on. Today we have children living with chronic diseases. This requires many efforts from parents in the form of care and care to make the family's everyday life work. When these children start preschooling or go to school, the parents hand over the responsibility to the educators at school. For this to work and for the parents and staff to feel safe, parents must tell or teach the staff how to deal with the different situations that may arise. Today, parents do not have the legal right to be absent from their work to do so. Most employers are solution-focused, somehow solve it, and let parents visit the school. But we Liberals do not believe that it should depend on the employer. It should of course be a right that all parents have the opportunity to use. We want it to be part of the temporary parental allowance. The same is true of children and young people who need support and help from the social services. These visits also do not give the right to care for children, or temporary parental allowance. We want to change that too. For those children who have efforts under the LSS, the Act on Support and Service to Certain Disabled Persons, this is possible. So-called contact days have been introduced there. We believe that this must be possible for all children, including those who do not have efforts under the LSS. We have many families with children in our country who live in an economically vulnerable situation. This is especially true of families made up of only one parent. We therefore want to increase the housing allowance. We want to do it with SEK 100 per child per month and lower the income limit to the levels that applied in 2016. In this way, we are targeting the families who really need them, and we can facilitate their financial situation and everyday life. There are times when parents die and children and young people lose their parent. They will then have the opportunity for the so-called compliance support to receive financial assistance for housing, food and other expenses. However, for children living in an HVB home, a home for care and housing, or an assisted home, the costs are met through the placement. We Liberals therefore believe that it should not be possible to have compliance support when this is provided in a completely different way. Madam President, I would like Liberals had their own budget and exercise in this area. However, as these fell into a previous vote in Parliament, I refer today to our particular opinion.
i-HzV9hG8D8kHUXDgifyrriB	Madam President, I would like This debate concerns the Social Security Committee's report 3 on Category 12 Economic security for families and children. There is, of course, much to be said about this important policy area, but, as you know, we are in the middle of a process of government formation and have a special situation. In a few minutes we will find out how the President intends to proceed with the forthcoming debate on how Sweden can have stable and effective governance. Since Sweden has a transitional government, it has presented a special transitional budget. This budget does not contain new policies, but is intended to act as a transition until a new government takes office and can present an amending budget with that government's policy. As everyone knows, it is not the transitional government's budgetary framework that has been passed in this House, but rather the draft budget of the Moderates and Christian Democrats. Despite the fact that the transitional government has presented a budget in this sensitive and important time based on established principles, the Moderates and Christian Democrats chose not to wait for the process of government formation but to proceed directly with their policies. It is a policy that also went through with the support of the Swedish Democrats. Our proposal for a budgetary framework has therefore fallen. We will therefore not be taking part in the decision but will refer to our specific opinion. I regret that the Christian Democrats and the Moderates have not waited for the formation of the government, but instead have chosen to go forward with this policy, which weakens Sweden's climate policy and makes it cheaper to release at a time when we should do everything we can to stem climate change and leave behind a world for our children and grandchildren who are not destroyed. With regard to the financial security of families and children, of which the spending area is concerned, I would like to take this opportunity to remind you of the harsh way in which Christian Democrats and Moderates cut into a coherent budget. No thought seems to have been given to transitional and phasing-out rules. Economic security, or the security of many families at all, has been rocked by this action. It concerns families who have left their context. These are families who have left their homes, children who have left friends and school contexts or families who have moved when parents have, for example, started working at the Equality Agency. This applies to everyone else whose job with a brush stroke will disappear in view of the cuts that are being made without a description of the content of the jobs being done. It will, of course, be more difficult to get action through Arbetsförmedlingen when cuts are made. The list can be made long. I can't say anything but that it's deeply irresponsible. It is probably one parent or another who thinks that the extra bonus provided by the sixth job tax deduction is completely unnecessary given what the money gives when we use it together instead for the challenges of our time here and now and in the future. It's a terrible mistake that's being made.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-272	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the floor. In these historic days, when we celebrate democracy, it feels extraordinary to be able to say those words: Thank you for the word! Despite the fact that the formation of government now seems as sensitive as getting to the most perfect Christmas bust, the world does not stay outside. It has been a long time since Sweden was in such a troubled environment as we are now. It was a long time ago that it rumbled so high in the country of discontent. Uncertainty in the face of the impending recession is evident. It is a question of insecurity because of the growing level of crime and the concern that welfare will not be enough. The mumbling discontent has not occurred recently, and I would say that the parliamentary situation is a direct consequence of this. Sweden therefore needs hope. Sweden therefore needs a successful policy for equality and equality for the society that is now emerging. Sweden needs open eyes that do not get stuck in problems but instead, together with open minds, focus on solutions and opportunities. I am therefore proud of the work that the Alliance has done together to shape the policy that the Moderates and Christian Democrats have now put forward together in our budget. If you read the budget, you can clearly see that it is a liberal budget that celebrates and strengthens the freedom of individuals and strengthens the core business of the state. It is a budget that insists on restoring the social contract so that people can feel safe. The government is not yet in office. But we are elected members of the Riksdag. It is Parliament's right and Parliament's duty to decide on the state budget, and it would therefore be directly wrong for us not to equip Sweden for difficult times. Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Social Security Committee for its good cooperation during this remarkable autumn. The committee's work has been characterised by good atmosphere and good and constructive cooperation. Much of this working environment has to thank our extremely expert, generous and always helpful office for. Thank you very much. During the committee's preparation, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats have made a joint proposal. Madam President, I would like to support this. Our joint draft budget does not derogate from the draft budget of the transitional government, or the outgoing government, for Category 12. It should be seen as a coherent package. On the other hand, we see that in order to turn Sweden in the right direction, we need to investigate reforms in this area as well. Parental insurance needs to be reviewed in order to be more equal, and I do not mean by quotas. The Moderates believe that it must be easier to achieve real and long-term equality. Work is the foundation of an equal society. It is about being able to enjoy equal freedom and have equal control over everyday decisions. Long periods of absenteeism from the labour market, for example combining benefits and parental benefit at basic level, lead to higher thresholds for entry into the labour market and an increase in the risk of long-term exclusion. Foreign born women currently have an employment rate of 23 percentage points lower than that of native women. Many of them have not even entered the labour market to get their first job. This is a poverty trap that we can no longer accept. Therefore, the Moderates propose that parental benefit at basic level, i.e. for those who do not have earned income, be reviewed. At the same time, we want the right to free preschools to be extended for the children of those parents who are long-term unemployed. Madam President, I would like Another proposal that we would like to examine in the future is a reform that will abolish today's parallel system of maintenance and maintenance support. Instead, we will see if it is possible to replace it with a model where more parents pay maintenance support that corresponds to their own standard of living or the taxed income. Today's system calculates maintenance based on two completely different systems based on different calculation bases and different laws, creating financial incentives for parents to choose one way or the other. This does not solve the basic problem when an absent parent does not take full financial responsibility. On the contrary, the present system runs the risk of being conflict-driven, as parents are forced, in an already strained separation situation, to take a major responsibility to come to an agreement and manage the financial transactions relating to maintenance. Instead, with the children's best interests in mind, we should strive for a simplified system whereby the Social Insurance Agency is given the task of administering the new maintenance, calculating the amount of maintenance, paying it out to the parent with whom the child lives and collecting the corresponding amount from the absent parent. Of course, in cases where a parent has no income or very low income, a guaranteed minimum level should continue. Madam President, I would like The advantages of such a model are, first and foremost, that it is best for the children. It is easily transparent, predictable, reduces financial conflicts between parents, strengthens the single economy and increases incentives for alternate housing. As you can see, the proposal contains significant gains in gender equality. Madam President, I would like Today it is 100 years and two days since the decision on universal and equal suffrage was taken, and then gender equality is something to be extra curious about. Thank you very much for the floor, once again.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-289	Madam President, I would like Thank you, AnnAnn-Sofie Alm, for the opportunity to ask a few questions in a line! The honourable Member's speech highlighted that there is a great deal that the Moderates would like to do to reform parental insurance and make it more equal. I therefore wonder what concrete steps should be taken to promote gender equality when we do not want to spend days in parental insurance, which we see as having a positive impact on gender equality. This is the only thing that we clearly see making a difference to an equal withdrawal in parental insurance. I would also like to ask the honourable Member about various proposals that have been made in the autumn with regard to temporary parental insurance, i.e. child care. They want to introduce a Karen's Day. How would it promote the safety of children? How are they supposed to be away from preschool and not infect all the other children when they're sick if the parents can't be at home with them?
i-6LXBcKNWQpK9wWxoLFPtXv	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Emilia Töyrä, for the questions. When it comes to gender equality and parental insurance, it is quite a big deal that needs to be taken. Our parental insurance has improved at times but was largely presented for a different time. It is another society that is emerging now. We must ensure that the general benefits of parental insurance do not become general but that there really is an equal outcome of parental insurance. The reforms that we would like to see are looking at financial incentives rather than quotas and entering the family's own private sphere and deciding how to do so. Perhaps you can share your pension points, for example. When it comes to the lifelong perspective, one needs to see that economic equality is what one should strive for, not the take-off of days. Many things can happen in a child's life with his parents. A parent can fall away for various reasons– one can, for example, divorce. This is something that affects the child first and foremost, but also economic equality, primarily for women. It is women who take most of the responsibility for taking out the extra days. We need to tackle this in a different way from quotas, because we never achieve real equality in this way.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-295	Madam President, I would like Yes, because equality is definitely at stake by removing all the reforms that have been introduced to promote it. I thought that was an interesting post from the Moderates. What is clear in this debate is that there are many ideas from different parties. Ann-Sofie Alm also highlighted this in her speech. Then I would like to take this opportunity to ask the question: if you now have so many ideas, why do you choose not to push them? Although many issues have been dealt with, they have chosen not to do anything in this particular area. Don't you want to drive the ideas you have? It was said in the speech that it is important to highlight one's own policy and that that is why one has acted in this way.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-297	Madam President, I would like That's absolutely true. We want to push forward changes and reforms in order to increase gender equality. But it is reforms that require major investigations. We haven't investigated this yet, so we have to, and so will we. We very much hope for your support in this work, because it is important to be curious about different kinds of gender equality reforms.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-298	Madam President, I would like The family is society's most important community and building block. In the family, the foundation is laid for safe children and a safe society. We Christian Democrats therefore often look at the challenges of society from the family perspective. To create a more family - friendly society, we ask ourselves questions such as: How can we give the family more time together? How can family and professional life be combined on equal terms for both men and women? How can we create a safe preschool? How can children who grow up in families with vulnerable finances enjoy stimulating leisure time? How can we provide security for parents of children with extensive disabilities? For us Christian Democrats, the starting point is that all children should have economic and social security and a good relationship with both parents. We believe that the public should primarily support and help, not steer and hinder. We see the importance of long-term responsibility and the importance of parents for the safety of children. Madam President, I would like It's moms and dads who know what's best for their family. We therefore welcomed the fact that Parliament prevented further quotas in parental insurance earlier this autumn. But we Christian Democrats want to go further. Parental insurance should be completely free and flexible. We want parents to be able to transfer days to other family members, such as grandparents or adult siblings to the child. This would facilitate everyday life, not least for single parents. Madam President, I would like Several reforms are needed to give parents better opportunities to create a secure family. We Christian Democrats will therefore continue to work towards, for example:
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-304	Protection of sickness benefit and parental benefit-based income for three years
i-Sc78oCMwSNNJMgcUuTBgMZ	Strengthening pension rights for children's years 中 introduce an automatic share premium pension for parents. The latter would, above all, strengthen women's pensions. However, we are pleased that we Christian Democrats, together with the Moderates, are already able to carry out actions that will make it better for children and families in various ways. A good preschool or other childcare is a crucial condition for parents to feel safe when they go to work. Unfortunately, preschool staff often testify to oversized groups of children. This, in turn, has negative effects on children's development, security and learning. Together with the Moderates, we are therefore increasing state subsidies to reduce children's groups. This will make it easier for the staff to do their job well, while parents can be confident that the quality of preschool is high and that the best interests of the children are at the centre. Madam President, I would like Parents are the most important people in a child's life, and good parenting lays the foundation for a safe childhood. But no matter how well prepared you are for perhaps the most important task of life, moments will come when you experience difficulties in parenting. The public should not take over the role of the parents in the first place, but support and help the parents to cope better with the role of parents. Parents, especially teenage parents, often lack someone to talk to and consult when difficult situations arise. By now making it mandatory for municipalities to offer parental support programmes, we can better support parents in their important role and at the same time give children a better start in life. It's a win for the whole community. Madam President, I would like All children should have the chance to develop their interests and talents. But some sports and activities can cost too much for financially vulnerable families. Around 7 per cent of Sweden's children live in households that receive financial assistance. Unfortunately, the statistics show that children in these families are under-represented in organised leisure activities. It is therefore very unfortunate that the deposed red-green government chose to remove the leisure money that the Christian Democrats pushed through under the alliance government. The leisure allowance was intended for children living in households who have been supported for at least six months. The Children's Ombudsman, Save the Children and the Society Sweden's social welfare managers also criticised the red-green government's decision to remove the leisure money. We Christian Democrats are therefore pleased that, together with the Moderates, we are now reintroducing leisure money. It also gives children living in families with a vulnerable financial situation the chance of stimulating and developing leisure, community and participation. It can make a difference how a child with difficulties in childhood survives in school and for the rest of his life. Madam President, I would like When we talk about families and security, we must never forget the parents of children with extensive disabilities who struggle every day to cope with everyday life. During the autumn, I have met several people who have been affected by the recent cuts in LSS and not least personal assistance. I especially remember the meeting with Rickard. It felt all the way into my heart when Rickard told me that he is living with a constant fear of the future. What will happen tomorrow, in a year's time, in ten years' time with his son who is dependent on assistance around the clock if we don't save the LSS? I am extremely pleased with the political consensus that I now see in Parliament that breathing and feeding should be considered fundamental needs. Through the budget reservation of M and KD, we can finally take the first long-awaited step to ensure this, which should be self-evident. That is something that we Christian Democrats have been fighting for a long time and that will improve the situation of many victims. However, much more needs to be done within the LSS. We Christian Democrats will continue to fight, for example, to increase the flat rate and, not least, to ensure the right to assistance for children under the age of 16 and on the basis of the fifth fundamental need. It is not possible to put a price tag on the human value of safeguarding the right to assistance. However, a report from Lund University shows that the costs of society can increase by just over SEK 8 billion per year if we remove personal assistance. The increase in costs falls largely within the scope of the Social Security Committee as a result of the parent's sick leave when he or she is unable to take care of his or her child. I am therefore grateful that we Christian Democrats and the Moderates agree to safeguard the long-term sustainability of the assistance reform, both legally and economically, and taking into account the overall socio-economic costs. Madam President, I would like Otherwise, I and the Christian Democrats support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-321	Madam President, I would like Is this where we're gonna find out? Why are Moderates, Christian Democrats and Swedish Democrats embarking on the way to cut funding for Swedish schools when it should be the other way around? Why have the Christian Democrats sold out their entire education policy in order to double the number of clergy graduates? And what did the Swedish Democrats get to give their support? The Swedish democrats would not give anything for free. Will the Swedish Democrats help the Moderates and Christian Democrats put six-year-olds in the school bench without having to cross the bridge that preschool class means? Well, right-wing politics was – that's for sure – and in a situation where the parliament should really concentrate on getting a new government in place so that it can present its new policy. Madam President, I would like Knowledge outcomes will be raised for everyone in a safe school, and the skills supply of today and the future will be completed. This requires a long-term approach and broader agreements. Policy needs to take responsibility for that. We can't all agree on everything. We will not and will not be able to be. But enough of us need to be able to get along. What teachers, principals and research have given us, namely the work of the School Commission, must be nurtured and developed. The equivalence of Swedish schools must be strengthened. Only in this way can the results of knowledge continue to rise. It requires more state funding and government governance for just equivalence. We must continue to invest in teachers but also in other professional groups at school, such as pupil health, in order to give students the safe and educational schooling to which they are entitled. Security and studies must be available in all classrooms and schools. Early action must also be strengthened and continued. All that needs to be done to achieve the obvious goal of increased learning outcomes and to break the pattern that family backgrounds still prevail in terms of how well a student passes the school. We need to be able to agree that we will reach an equal school that has high knowledge outcomes, where the student's learning and education are in focus. Everything else is a failure, whether you are a social democrat or a liberal. To this overall goal will also be added other major challenges we have to address. Pupils must pass upper secondary school, and the school must provide pupils with good knowledge to get a job or be able to continue studying at a university of applied sciences or higher education. The individual's need for education and education through life should be indicative in combination with the needs of the labour market, not least regional labour markets. No one should be held back, but no one should be left behind either. Of course we have a lot to take on. And we're a lot of people who get their energy up and running. In the midst of all this, however, we have to take into account the fact that a majority in Parliament voted out Stefan Löfven and the current government, but the same majority did not have a common plan for what was to come instead. It is clear that we need to find new ways to control Sweden. I, for my part, still believe that a middle government is what is best for Sweden based on valid election results. Well, there is no new government, but the country is governed by a transitional government which, in turn, has put a transitional budget on Parliament's table – a transitional budget that is not a permanent solution. It is developed on the basis of special principles that have been negotiated between social democrats, environmentalists, left-wing parties, center parties, Christian Democrats and liberals. Madam President, I would like A transitional budget does not address the major societal problems of new reforms. Nor is it intended to do so. The transitional government's budget proposal does not express the political priorities of the government or the Social Democrats for the future. It therefore exists that important social functions, welfare and public authorities should function as before. It is needed to create stability and is precisely a transitional budget pending the entry into office of a new government and the presentation of its new policy. It is when a budget is presented by a new government that we believe it is reasonable to submit motions as an opposition party. At the moment, Parliament's work should concentrate on getting a strong government in place, we think. Madam President, I would like A new government will need to present an additional amending budget with the necessary corrections as soon as possible. This would have been the case if the transitional budget had won the Parliament's voice and it will also apply now with the politics of the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats in place. Our very simple committee management to meet the preparation requirements for the new proposals revealed a number of mistakes, just in our hands. They have probably been corrected now in the committee's preparation, but frankly, it will only become apparent when it is to be ruled on the decisions that Parliament is now making. Surely an amending budget will be needed, regardless of a new government. Madam President, I would like Sweden's students, students, teachers and many more who are present in Swedish schools would not be well off going back to the time when the results of knowledge sank like a stone. When the Moderates last achieved their economic policies, one in four educated teachers left the profession for reasons other than retirement. 10,000 employees disappeared from school. Today, when we debate the budget, we get a taste of the right-wing school policy, namely that the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats have chosen to deduct half a billion from the field of education and research – this compared to a scaled-down transitional budget without any new political direction. With this, Swedish schools end up in the same mirage of priorities as the reductions in the environment, gender equality, labour market and housing construction. There is no other way to look at this. It cannot be that it is only political governance when M, KD and SD give more money, as you do, for example, for defence and the police. But it only means technicalities when you make big cuts. It is clear that it is political governance both in what one prioritises and in what one withdraws. In the field of education, money is gone that has previously gone towards greater equivalence, to more employees in primary school and to a better working environment. In the field of education, you're taking away half a billion. These are facts, no matter how much you try to argue otherwise. It would have been exciting to be a fly on the wall and hear how you arrived at half a billion less money for education, because we know that the Christian Democrats wanted to spend 1.7 billion more than the transitional budget while the Moderates wanted to remove 288 million from the transitional budget. When you sit down and negotiate, simsalabim concludes that you jointly save half a billion in the field of education. So it is more than what was the fall from the Moderates. As long as it's a political signal called good! Unfortunately, it is not education that is the priority of these parties. The Christian Democrats have sold out all their policies. For what? Smaller groups of children at preschool are probably happy to say for themselves. But I can tell you a secret. Money for smaller children's groups in preschool had probably been on the table of the Riksdag almost regardless of which government is taking office, for many parties have promised. In the same way as we are many parties that have promised more places for universities of applied sciences, universities and universities, investment in teachers and in pre-school and teacher education. Perhaps this was difficult to deliver for the Moderates and Christian Democrats, but I can venture to say that it would not have been difficult to deliver for Social Democrats. So for what did the Christian Democrats sell out their entire education policy? Could it not have been for the 8 million who will double the number of priests in Sweden, or perhaps? I have only found that in the Christian Democrats' proposal. In that case, it is an important information to those who voted for the Christian Democrats. True, it is a party that very rarely talks about school, and when you do, it is usually by questioning preschool teachers and child-careers. So little meant the promise of the Christian Democrats in the field of education. Not to mention the Moderates who have gone to elections to invest in school, but who now choose to cut back on education and education. The Swedish democrats can also be mentioned in this context because they also wanted to give more money to the area, but they ended up voting half a billion less money for education and research. So how do you interpret that? What unites these three parties is clearly that, in the end, funding for education is always being pushed on the foot in favour of tax cuts. It worries me about the future. Madam President, I would like I think many wise citizens understand that the way the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats have handled politics during this autumn is unserious. It would have been better to accept the transitional budget and devote all its energy to ensuring that a new government can come into place so that the new government could present its new policy. That's not what happened. Instead, the proposals of the Moderates and Christian Democrats were approved with the support of the Swedish Democrats in the first stage of the budget process. It gave a different direction to budgetary policy, and it is also other spending frameworks that have been decided in the second stage of the budgetary process. It is about other spending frameworks than those that we Social Democrats have advocated. That is why we choose to refrain from taking a position on the allocation of appropriations in Category 16. We Social Democrats do not intend to contribute to cutting half a billion in the field of education and research. We intend to devote all our efforts to investing in Swedish school and education, not to cut back on money. We intend to put all our energy into trying to find broad agreements and long-term prospects for Swedish school and education for a strengthened equivalence, for higher knowledge results, to strengthen teachers, for security and studyo, for early intervention and for skills provision. These are values and overarching objectives that unite both social democracy and liberalism, and these are priorities for which we should be able to find broad majority in this House. However, this time another order will win the support of the House. I'm sorry about that.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-347	Madam President, I would like The budget now to be adopted is based on the Alliance's common policy according to a reservation from the Moderates and Christian Democrats and means 1.2 billion to smaller children's groups in preschool. We will increase the funding for higher education by 400 million. We'll raise the grant to the university of applied sciences by 250 million. We set aside EUR 100 million for the establishment of language preschools, and we are sending EUR 7 billion to the municipalities and the authorities to deliver good business. Overall, the budget for school and education is increasing by 2.38 billion compared to this year's budget. The budget passed by the Moderates and KD means that there will be more money for school and education than any S-V-MP government has ever delivered. In other words, appropriations increase by 2.38 billion. How, Madam President, in Ernkrans Matilda's world could it mean cutting back on school?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-350	Madam President, I would like I understand that the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats are very pleased with the budget that they have pushed through in Parliament's Chamber. I'm not. The reason is so simple that you can only read the budget and look at the last line. It does not matter how much they turn around and turn things around; there is a half billion missing compared to the transitional budget that is scaled down and does not have any new political reforms. It stands minus SEK 501 million, half a billion, in the field of education and research. It doesn't matter how much they turn it around. These are the facts. It worries me that they have once again taken a path where they do not stand up to finance Swedish school. What really happened in Swedish school when the Moderates last ruled economic policy? Well, there were 10,000 fewer employees in school, one in four educated teachers left school for reasons other than retirement, and the results of knowledge fell like a stone. Could it be, Erik Bengtzboe in the Moderates, that your economic policy does not go together? You cannot promise everything to everyone and at the same time reduce taxes by 15 billion. Somewhere the money has to be taken from. The last time you were in power, you picked up the money from Swedish school. This time – the first time you get the chance to push your policy through again – it says in the last line that you have removed half a billion, compared to a scaled-down transitional budget without any political direction. It doesn't matter how you turn the whole thing around. The political signals are clear. You do not intend to prioritise the Swedish school so that it is sufficiently well developed. It's sad.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-355	Madam President, I would like It seems to have become a thing for the Social Democrats that rhetoric takes precedence over politics. Between 2006 and 2014, funding for Swedish schools increased. The chairman of the committee knows that, Madam President. The truth is that funds are now increasing from 77.9 billion to 80.3 billion. How can 80 billion in Matilda Ernkrans's world be less than 77 billion? How does that mathematics work out in the world of Social Democrats? In other words, appropriations for schools and education are increasing by 2.38 billion. Sending the signal to Swedish teachers, parents and municipal councillors that we are pulling down is directly irresponsible and dishonest. And, Madam President, it's fucking unworthy of me the chairman of the committee.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-358	Madam President, I would like It is up to others to judge what is unworthy and dishonest. However, I note that it is easy to read inside and see where the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats are cutting funding for the future compared to the transitional budget and where they are increasing. It really cannot be that it is only about political priorities when you invest in defence and police and that what you are cutting back on is about technicalities and dishonesty from us reading this. This, in fact, is also a political signal. Just as you are cutting back on areas such as the environment, gender equality, the labour market and housing construction, you are also removing half a billion from the field of education and research. You are also not compensating for this with money for the municipalities. They go plus minus zero.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-360	Madam President, I would like As a member of the Liberals on the committee, I would like to hear what priorities the Social Democrats want to make for 2019. When I listened properly, it was more about what the Moderates and Christian Democrats want to do. It does not interest me at this very moment. However, I have a question concerning the comment made by the chairman of the committee on the announcement of the introduction of a ten-year primary school. It sounded a little bit in the speech that this is just something that we have thrown up on the committee table and want to grab through and that we should now expose children in preschool to experiments. However, that is not true, Madam President. With the support of the Swedish Democrats, the Alliance parties have made periodic announcements in which we – a majority in the Swedish Parliament – have demanded that the government return with proposals to introduce ten-year primary school. The preschool class must be converted into grade 1. Preschool teachers and teachers in the lower grades must be educated and further educated so that they can also teach in comprehensive school grade 1. This was done in spring 2015 and again in 2016. How does Matilda Ernkrans explain that they have not yet delivered this proposal?
i-6uE5KyEH4RASJRH81jFKEb	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Roger Haddad, for the question! I think I gave a very clear account of the focus of the Social Democrats and what we prioritise in Swedish school. I hope we have a majority in this House that can come to an agreement in the future. This could involve increased government funding and governance and enhanced equivalence. That's how we get higher knowledge results. It can also be about strengthening teachers, working with security and studyo, strengthening early interventions and strengthening skills supply. I am convinced that in my speech I said this not only once but several times. What Roger Haddad says is absolutely true: there were calls for the Social Democratic and environmental Party government to put six-year-olds on the school bench and not let them get the bridge between preschool and school that the preschool class constitutes. In the preschool class there are educators who are trained to meet six-year-olds at their level and prepare them to sit still in the school bench and absorb knowledge from the year they turn seven. We managed it by actually making the preschool class compulsory and taking this into school duty. We think it is a reasonable path. This has started to apply from this autumn. It is reasonable, we think, to let this work in Swedish school. Then we can evaluate it and see how we can move forward. I am reacting when Moderates and Christian Democrats say that during this term of office the six-year activity should be removed. For the fact remains: this is not possible for the alliance parties unless they take active support from the Swedish Democrats. I thought we Social Democrats and Liberals agreed not to do that.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-368	Madam President, I would like Hundreds of proposals from both the Alliance and the Red-Green have passed through the House in recent years by the fact that the Swedish-democratic Members have happened to take the same position. I don't think that's weird. However, this is not a new proposal. That's what I wanted to say. If the Chairman is going to attack us in the case of ten-year primary school, she has to stick to the facts. It is not true that the results of knowledge have deteriorated. They have actually gone up, which is a good thing. However, they are worse than in 2015 when we had just been responsible for primary school. It's problematic. International studies show that Swedish students attend school for a short period of time. In other countries you start earlier. This is therefore not controversial. It is we who deviate, not the other countries. We want to change this by turning the preschool class into grade 1. Admit, Matilda Ernkrans, that you have halted and delayed this important reform!
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-373	Madam President, I would like We now have a compulsory preschool class as part of compulsory schooling. There we can still take advantage of the very important and professional pedagogy that exists where you meet the six-year-olds and make them ready for first class so that they can absorb knowledge in a good way. I think that this is a reasonable way of dealing with the various wishes and bases that exist in the matter. What remains is that the Moderates and Christian Democrats – and now the Liberals join this group – have promised to remove the six-year activity during this period. Because of the parliamentary situation in the Swedish parliament, this can only be done through active support from the Swedish Democrats. This road I didn't think Sweden would walk. I hope that this is the case and that the Social Democrats and the Liberals continue to agree on it.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-376	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech, Matilda Ernkrans! But I'm a little surprised by the high and partially condescending tone you're using. There has been an account of the efforts we are actually making in the field of education. But I will come to my question and make a statement in part. Society is bigger than politics. Civil society is making a major contribution to society, and churches are an important part of civil society. The labour market is good. Good efforts are being made. My question, Matilda, is: Why are you talking so condescendingly and derisively about theology educations? Are civil society actors not more important than that?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-379	Madam President, I would like I have not put in any assessment whatsoever as to the good or not of the theology education. I don't think that's my job, or I don't want to take on that job. On the other hand, I have noted that the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats are making a considerable increase in the grant to three of our high schools of theology that educate priests. In reality, my question to the Christian Democrats is: is this the profit that you think you have made in the negotiations that the parties had when they would agree on how the budget should be presented? You Christian Democrats thought that we should invest 1.7 billion more than the transitional budget in the field of education. And you decided to add half a billion to the transitional budget in this area together with the Moderates. The only thing that distinguishes itself from the Christian Democrats' proposals – things that I cannot find in any other motions and that I can imagine you actually had to fight a little for – is the proposal to significantly increase support for the higher schools of theology. It is, of course, up to the Christian Democrats, but was it really worth selling out your entire education policy for this? Is it the Christian Democrats' assessment that the most important thing for the coming years is that we double the number of clergy graduates? That assessment will have to stand for you. You're the one who made it. I'm just wondering, and I think more people are wondering, was this what you went to elections on? Is that what the Christian Democrats promised when it comes to education policy? This is the great victory which you have won.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-383	Madam President, I would like Matilda Ernkrans! One of the really big gains in the budget reservation that we have made is the great effort to reduce children's groups. 55 percent of the younger children in our children's groups are in children's groups that are far too large. Pre-school educators are sometimes forced to choose the second worst because the time and resources are not enough. I am proud and pleased that we can now make this effort. But I'll come back to my first question. Churches and civil society have made great efforts now in the years when we have had a great deal of immigration. They have taken a great deal of responsibility in the integration work. The labour market is good. I still have a little scornful feeling about this venture. I wonder why, Matilda.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-385	Madam President, I would like I am firmly opposed to the fact that it is being put on toner in the way I express things. I have not used any scornful tone. I don't evaluate at all how many places there should be in the theology education or not. I don't think that's my business. However, I note that this has been an extremely important issue for the Christian Democrats in education policy. Then it is good if the Christian Democrats stand for it. Children's groups are way too big-- that's what I agree with. That is why my party promised, and continues to promise, to make billions of investments in Swedish preschools and schools in the coming years. We need to do this in order to reduce children's groups. There is a problem with the politics that the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats have now put forward. You can look at the 290 municipalities. You are withdrawing a number of targeted state subsidies, and you are spending some general state subsidies. But the amount of room will be zero. The municipalities will not get a crown more to solve this. That's a problem.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-388	( THIRD VICE TALMANN: Once again, I would like to remind Members that we use both first names and surnames when speaking up and not you when speaking up. )
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-389	Madam President, I would like It is a huge frustration that the Social Democrats are not getting their draft budget through. It has gone like a mantra through all these committee debates. Matilda Ernkrans joins the company. It should not come as a surprise how the Swedish Democrats stand. We have consistently done this since autumn 2014. Only last year, the Swedish Democrats supported another budget in a decisive vote. It also covered Category 16. What is also remarkable is that Ernkrans Matilda's speech constantly refers to money, as if more money to business was the only recipe for creating a better school. We are having a very difficult time with this. The direction of politics must also be important. If you put more money in a budget without changing the direction of politics, it will be like driving on the same track as you have done in the past, even though it has not resulted in what you want. Madam President, I would like My question to Matilda Ernkrans is: Is Matilda Ernkrans satisfied with the long-term development in Swedish schools, from the 70s onwards? Is Matilda Ernkrans happy with this? Is that why the Social Democrats are not putting forward more stringent proposals? And is that why they choose not to discuss with other parties in the Riksdag to ensure that they have support once it is time for the budget vote?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-393	Madam President, I would like I think I'm going to have to do something to correct the honourable Member. There is a proposal from a transitional government for a transitional budget. As I said in my speech, that budget does not include the direction of the government and not of the Social Democrats for the future. It is in its form a scaled-down budget that will allow a new government to present its new policy. We Social Democrats think this would have been the most reasonable and serious way of dealing with the parliamentary situation in which Sweden now finds itself. We don't have a government in place. The one we had was voted out by a majority who obviously did not have a common plan for getting a government back. I am among those who, in this parliamentary situation, still believe that a middle government is the best for Sweden. When the government is in place and the budget is presented, it is reasonable for the parties in opposition to present their proposals. That's what we stand for. Then it is not that the Social Democrats live in a vacuum. We are impressed by the people who know the school. We have a good basis for politics with the School Commission – it was teachers, principals and researchers. They were very clear that if we are to meet what is the school's challenges, we need to stand together with more government funding and more government governance for equivalence. That is what we base our decisions and positions on, unlike the Swedish Democrats.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-397	Madam President, I would like I note that I did not receive an answer to my question. But it is clear that Matilda Ernkrans has a completely different view of what the democratic process in a Chamber should look like. For us Swedish democrats, it is of course important to deliver results and that this leads to a better school. Then if, after our own draft budget has fallen, we have to choose between two draft budgets where one proposal will not lead to better results and the other has a completely different focus on policy, then the elections in that situation are quite simple for us Swedish democrats. Then we will choose the proposal that moves the policy forward and that changes the direction of a policy that we think has been bad for quite a long time.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-399	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the clarity of the Swedish Democrats! Your party leader has had very high tails after the elections and said that the Swedish democrats will not give their support free of charge to anyone. Then we can read what the Swedish Democrats want to do. For example, you want to save 11⁄2 billion on what is a strengthened equivalence – what makes the building worker's son or perhaps the child with immigrant parents actually get a chance and opportunity to pass school and raise their knowledge results with the cleverness that everyone raises their knowledge. You want to remove 11⁄2 billion from that. We Social Democrats do not want that, and it is not included in the transitional budget. However, it can be noted that the M-KD proposal removes half a billion which has gone to increased equivalence. It was obviously enough, if I am to understand this correctly, with that adaptation from the Moderates and Christian Democrats for you here to take the position that actually means that we are saving half a billion in Swedish schools.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-401	Madam President, I would like Swedish school was once a model for most other Western European countries. After half a century of dismantling, this status is long gone. Instead of nurturing and developing a well-functioning system, the school for a long time became an experimental workshop for cluttered socialists, in which homework, grades and discipline were questioned and where all students were to be run in one form. It became more important to discuss forms of operation and gender education than to focus on the knowledge mission. Nor was it better to let the municipalities take over the headship of the school. I don't want to black out Swedish school in any way. There are very many schools that are very good, and there are many dedicated and driven teachers. But the support, support, visions and ambitions of the political community are lacking in many ways, and the shortcomings we see in Swedish schools are extremely serious. The Swedish Democrats have put forward a series of proposals to strengthen the role of teachers, teacher training, school results and the working environment in their budget exercise on Category 16. It is, of course, impossible in this short time to go through and give a complete picture of what we are putting forward, but at least I thought of highlighting a few points where we Swedish democrats are calling for strong action. A basic prerequisite for learning is that there is peace and quiet in the classroom. That is not the situation today in most places. A few years ago, the Swedish School Inspectorate mapped out the work of creating studies in primary and secondary schools. The result was disappointing. Nearly 50 per cent of the students felt that they were disturbed in class, and one in four primary and secondary schools failed to create a school environment characterised by studyo. Teachers sound the alarm that teaching time may be taken to create peace and quiet before the lesson can begin. It is rarely the very best students who are affected by this, but it is usually the students who have the greatest need for support. At worst, students lose their desire for learning. Curiosity is changing to discomfort. School fatigue strikes. Efforts are decreasing. This can't go on. But it is not just the lack of studies that is alarming. A quarter of the teachers said in the current report that they were subjected to violence or threats. Notifications of violence and threats have increased, even doubled, between 2012 and 2017. It has gone so far that there has even been a debate about the introduction of alarm bars in Swedish schools. Drugs are also common in schools. Honour-related violence is today commonplace. It is characterized by the fact that young women are banned from meeting their friends. The brothers stand guarding when school is over and make sure that the sisters do not meet the wrong people. We had not accepted this at any other place of work. For this very reason, the Swedish Democrats are putting forward a series of proposals to strengthen safety and education in schools: We want to see a strengthened Vice-Chancellor's responsibility. We want to introduce emergency schools and emergency classes to which those who bully or harass others are moved in order to change their behaviour. We want to see duty schools where students who are being investigated for very serious crime are being placed. We want teachers and other school staff to receive compulsory training in honoral problems and to strengthen these elements in teacher training as well. We want to introduce written order reviews and that absence statistics should be included in the final grade. The Swedish school must also raise its ambitions. Sweden should be a knowledge nation, where the school's primary focus should and must be the knowledge mission. If Sweden is to be a competitive country, it must also have high expectations of students. Research also shows that the higher the expectations you have of the students, the better the results we get. For a long time, however, things have been quite different. Today, there are far too many pupils who leave comprehensive school without complete grades. It is even worse than that: Students who leave comprehensive school with passed grades also in many cases get the message when you come to upper secondary school that the grades are not enough. Therefore, they do not have sufficient prior knowledge to complete upper secondary school studies. It is extremely serious if the grade you get does not correspond to the knowledge you have. In many cases, secondary school has also become a repair shop for lack of prior knowledge from primary school. In the long run, this is totally untenable. The direction of politics must change. The demands of primary school need to be increased. Upper secondary school needs to be more closely linked to higher education institutions and universities, as well as to the needs of the labour market. Study and career guidance needs to be strengthened. Instead of discussing stress, grade, homework-free schooling and longer sleeping mornings, the political debate must be about ensuring high levels of knowledge. The school must also be better at meeting pupils' different needs. Specialised children are to be met with increased challenges, and those who are in a more difficult situation need more help at a much earlier stage. We therefore advocate, for example, level grouping in mathematics, Swedish and English from year 4. We Swedish democrats also believe that it is devastating for the acquisition of knowledge that newly arrived students enter regular classes too quickly. Successful schooling also requires that you can assimilate the education. Knowledge of Swedish is crucial there. We therefore want to set up a compulsory preparatory school for these students, from which they are drawn into the ordinary class only when they master the language so well that they can take full advantage of the education. It should be quite clear that if you do not master the language, you also find it difficult to assimilate education and therefore cannot deliver results. Here, however, principles other than the knowledge mission have been completely leading. We also want to strengthen the Swedish School Inspectorate to ensure that Swedish schools maintain a high quality. We want the School Inspectorate to do more checks and more irregular checks. The School Inspectorate will also act vigorously against schools that do not meet the requirements, such as shortcomings in educational quality or where threats, sexual harassment and bullying are not addressed despite remarks. Madam President, I would like In order for Sweden to be a world-leading knowledge nation, the recruitment of teachers must be strengthened and the role of teachers must be refined. Today there are far too low admission requirements for teacher training. Many teachers also choose to drop out of education or work with other things than teaching after graduation. What if we were more like Finland, where the teaching profession has exactly the same attractive status as the medical profession? That would be something. Instead, the teaching profession has been dismantled for a long time. Wage developments have been lagging behind. The best students opt out of the teaching profession for other educations. Order problems in Swedish schools discourage people from becoming teachers. We Swedish democrats see a strong need for subject knowledge, something that has had to fall away in teacher education, and clearer and more career paths for teachers so that they also have something to strive for in their professional role. We also see that the teaching role has evolved into something completely different from it should be. The teacher has become some kind of extra social secretary. It is important to streamline the teaching role, and that is why we are proposing substantial funding to strengthen so-called support staff at school. These could include IT staff, administrative staff and caretakers or student health staff such as curators, nurses, school doctors and school psychologists. All this to relieve the teachers so that they can focus on the very purpose of the teacher role. Other major initiatives that we highlight in our exercise include that we want to abolish the deduction for preschool, primary and leisure staff. We want to introduce an incentive grant to maintain nutritious and high quality food in both preschool and primary schools. We also want to give increased support to rural schools. These are just some of the points we put forward. With all this said, it is our firm belief that Sweden needs a new course, a new direction, a new school policy and a new direction for it. Our appropriations exceed the framework adopted by this House. Therefore, we cannot insist on anything, but we refer to and support what we say in our particular opinion.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-426	Madam President, I would like In his speech, Patrick Reslow says that we should not talk about stress but about knowledge. At a time when mental illness is growing, not least among young girls, and when high school students burn themselves out, Patrick Reslow wants us not to talk about this problem. Madam President, I would like A poor student cannot assimilate the teaching and knowledge that is the primary task of the school. A person is a whole – health doesn't work either. The Green Party believes that we must tackle the mental ill health that affects children and young people. It is about efforts for a queue-free child- and youth-psychiatry and a reinforced pupil health. But it's also about reviewing how the school's systems are designed and, for example, replacing grades in upper secondary school with subject grades so that you are not constantly assessed and rated according to your worst performance. For the Green Party, the issue of pupils' mental illness is a key part of raising knowledge outcomes. I am therefore strongly opposed to putting mental health against the pursuit of knowledge.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-430	Madam President, I would like Annika Hirvonen Falk splits words in her line. I didn't say you shouldn't talk about stress. I have said that there is far too much focus on stress, among other things, rather than on the knowledge mission. Annika Hirvonen Falk herself has assisted a policy that has contributed to increasing stress in school because you do not have studies and there is no peace and quiet in the classrooms. It is a policy that has not promoted grades at an early stage, but grades come as a stress element at a late stage of schooling. Bullying is allowed because you don't do enough about it on the school side, because you don't take strong action and separate the bullies from the bullies who are being bullied, but leave them in the same school and meet each other. Of course it's causing stress. The focus must be on the knowledge mission. If we pass the knowledge assignment, renouncing the teacher role and ensuring that there is peace and quiet in the classrooms, I am sure that Annika Hirvonen Falk will see that stress decreases. On one point, I would like to give Annika Hirvonen Falk the right answer, and that is her view of the subject. I also believe that the course grades have been a stress factor and that a transition to subject grades will make it much better, not least in upper secondary school. There we can see, for example, that anyone who does not pass Matte 1 immediately gets uphill on Matte 2, not to mention Matte 3, instead of the long process that we had earlier when we had subject grades. Otherwise, I think that Annika Hirvonen Falk goes one step too far when she says that I have said that we should not talk about stress. In fact, I say that there are other factors that need to be prioritised on the political side than just the freedom of study, the freedom of the grades and the stress.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-435	Madam President, I would like Now I did not sit on the Education Committee last term of office, but I don't think I've ever heard an education politician focusing only on homework freedom and stress. On the contrary, I've heard a lot of people say this is connected. We need to work towards the mental illness that is actually one of the obstacles to pupils performing in school. The Green Party has done active work to combat bullying and sexual harassment. Here, too, we differ from the Swedish Democrats in the knowledge of power structures linked to, for example, destructive masculinity norms, sexualization and sexualized violence and the understanding that it is connected. Early grades have been evaluated and researched, and the research shows that this has the opposite effect on knowledge development for those who perform the worst in school and no benefits for those who perform the best.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-438	Madam President, I would like There is also international research that shows that grades used from an early stage become a natural part of school work and are not perceived as strange at all. The problem arises if we begin to give grades 6, 8 or 9. Then it will be at a late stage, where you are in a different stage of development. This automatically leads to increased stress. But if the grade is included from the beginning, if you get grades or written reviews from the start, it becomes a natural part of the school work. Clearly, we differ completely there. The Green Party has for a long time been supporting governments that have a completely different view of, for example, grades and the necessity of grades in Swedish education.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-441	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The School Act states that education within the Swedish school aims to promote the development and learning of all pupils and to give them a lifelong desire to learn. The Education Act stipulates that the education must be equivalent, regardless of where in the country it is organised, and that consideration should be given to the pupils' different conditions and needs. The school has a special responsibility for those pupils who, for various reasons, find it difficult to achieve the objectives of the education. It's beautiful. That's how it should be in school – every child gets a chance. Unfortunately, however, this is not the reality today. Madam President, I would like Let me give an example from my municipality of Malmö, an example that unfortunately is not unique in Sweden. Värner Rydénskolan is named after the Swedish Minister of Education a hundred years ago. At Värner Rydén School, less than half of the students are eligible for upper secondary school, and then newly arrived children have already been excluded. It is a school that trains to exclusion, because we know that school failure leads to unemployment, ill health and insecurity. Imagine yourself standing there in the morning on your child's first day of school. You hold your child in hand, your child, which is the most important thing you have and which you will now hand over in a new world – a world where children will get the skills they need, where they hopefully make friends for life and where they will spend most waking hours in the years when they are formed as people. Then imagine knowing that you are handing your child over to a school where not even half of them succeed. Imagine that feeling for a parent! It's provocative. It actually pisses me off and sad when I think of the thousands of children who never get the opportunity to get around in life that they should have, children who are told by their teachers that in the class they are in, only five students will get into high school. It is children who themselves say that those who now have the power must actually do something. And they're right-- we have to do something. Every Swedish school must be able to offer a schooling that gives children the opportunity to take part in society's every opportunity. All children must be given the skills needed to take a job or create a job and thereby secure their own livelihood. All children must be given the keys to the freedom it is to be able to interpret their environment and be able to decide their own life. And no, it's no excuse that a school is in a socially vulnerable area. As a society, we cannot accept this as an excuse for school failures. The whole foundation of the Swedish school is that a child should be able to succeed no matter where she was born and no matter what parents the lot of life has given her. Nevertheless, this has been accepted by the Swedish school system – from municipality to school services and school inspection. For the low results are still there, and according to the reviews of the school everything is green. But how can we as a society feel that a school does everything right when it does not give children a future? Madam President, I would like Let me stress that this is not a criticism of the teachers or other staff at the vulnerable schools around Sweden, who struggle every day to succeed. It is a criticism of all levels of decision-making and development that have not succeeded better, including us in this House. It is time to take students as a starting point when we develop school policy. An upcoming government has as its main mission in school policy to ensure that all children in Sweden get an honest chance, no matter where they live. If we are to succeed, we need action at all levels based on the needs of the student. That's what the Center Party policy does. That's why we want high quality in preschool. The long-term objective must be an extended preschool and that more children should be given the opportunity to participate in preschool activities, not least those children who today do not have the same access to the Swedish language at home. In order to improve the quality and increase the number of competent educators in the business, we need to introduce career services, and the skills development guarantee must also apply to pre-school educators. It should also be easier for children's nurses to continue their education as preschool teachers during the time they work in preschool. A good way to reach children to newly arrived parents is to offer integration preschools, where preschool activities are conducted in parallel with SFI education for parents. Attempts have been made in some districts of Stockholm, with good results. This should be extended to more parts of the country. It is also important that resources go where they are needed, so that targeted state subsidies need to be reviewed and reduced. It would give more focus on activities and less on administration. Of course, it is also important that we talk about the most important part of society's toolbox in order to give all children the same opportunities in life, namely the teachers. There is a great need to raise the status of the teaching profession. Therefore, conditions must be created for independent teacher training, continuous and systematic competence development, collegial learning and reduced detail management in schools. There is also a need for clear career paths for the teaching staff, skilled school leaders who lead the educational development work and more classroom-related research. Madam President, I would like Today there is a great shortage of teachers, and the shortage will increase in the coming years. At the same time, there are retired teachers and many teachers who work in school without a teacher's ID, but in many cases with teacher training and great competence. In view of this, the requirement for teacher's identification should be abolished for a period of five years. Otherwise, we create an unsustainable situation for school leaders, teachers and students. For high-performance people with a degree other than an educational degree, there must be good opportunities to quickly study the pedagogical skills needed to become a teacher. So I and the Center Party want to expand and broaden the complementary educational programmes and expand Teach for Sweden. More individual actors must also be given the opportunity to pursue independent teacher training. It is difficult in practice today. You need to be allowed to issue a teacher's degree even if you only want to give, for example, shorter supplementary training courses. I and the Center Party therefore want the rules for individual training providers to be reviewed with a view to opening up to independent teacher training. Furthermore, we want a clear and long-term investment in a national digital teacher's lift. Teacher training needs to take the digital perspective into account in all relevant subjects, and teachers and school leaders need to be kept up-to-date in digital learning. Madam President, I would like I want to see a clear and increased government responsibility for how teachers and school leaders can continuously develop during their careers and gain access to skills development. We in the Center Party want to introduce a state competence development guarantee for a guaranteed high quality and relevant competence development. Such a guarantee strengthens teachers' opportunities to take part in classroom training and develops in their profession. The level of pay in the teaching profession is of course important for the attractiveness of the profession, just like career opportunities. With a career system for preschool teachers, teachers and school leaders, we can both increase skills and increase wages in this area. In a first step towards a clear career system for teachers, the Center Party wants to see an increase in the number of career positions. In order to enable teachers to be teachers and engage in their educational assignments, for the sake of the students, the Center Party wants teachers' assistants to be introduced. This new occupational group, in addition to providing support for teachers in the field of administrative, technical, etc., should also be able to support teaching itself. Madam President, I would like It is very important that the school is linked to the labour market. The school will provide a solid foundation for students' future entry into the labour market. This is why the link between education and the labour market is crucial. The Center Party proposes a number of reforms to strengthen this link. A two-year vocational school should be established, the introduction programme of upper secondary school should be strengthened and the role of guidance officers should be reviewed and strengthened. In addition, there needs to be more apprenticeships and professional colleges to ensure that all people can go from education to work. The next level of education, university of applied sciences training, provides companies with a skilled workforce, and students receive an education that largely leads to work. That is why universities of applied sciences, with their relatively small resources today, must be strengthened and expanded. This is a priority task for the future government. When it comes to offering supplementary education aimed at a specific profession, the University of Applied Sciences has an important role to play, whether it is about people who have just finished high school or people who want to supplement their education. Madam President, I would like We must have higher quality education at all levels. We need to have a more international education, and we need to ensure that the competence of teachers becomes higher. We must ensure that all children actually receive the education they deserve.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-467	Madam President, I would like We are here to debate the education system's expenditure category 16 or, as it is called in the people's mouth, napkin sketches from the far right. Swedish politics is in a very strange position. While the media image has focused on the tricky parliamentary situation, political content has been obscured. The parliamentary situation is clear. The Red-Green parties gained the greatest confidence after the 9 September elections. The former Alliance became the second largest former bloc, and unfortunately the support for the extreme right increased. But regardless of the division of mandates and political games, the task for us as the country's highest elected representatives is to ensure that the state's budgetary framework is handled in a serious and responsible manner. The current budgetary situation cannot be called either serious or responsible and has already had consequences for activities around the country. Let me be clear, Madam President. The transitional budget presented by the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party is not an ideal budget for any of us. But because of the parliamentary situation that Sweden is in right now, it is the budget that should have been voted through by all decent parties who want to find a solution without, in the meantime, putting either government or other social functions under pressure. It is therefore with sadness that I note that a minority in the Swedish Parliament consisting of conservative parties with the active support of the extreme right, the same constellation that also pushed for the laying of the largest government base, got its draft budget through in Parliament's Chamber. Madam President, I would like It is not new that the outer edge right, consisting of Moderates, Christian Democrats and the extreme right, has always invested less in the Swedish school. I do not need to mention the eight years when the Alliance was in power, when tax cuts always took precedence over investments in our welfare and our school. Where these right-wing parties have, in the unlikely event, added more resources, it has been quickly established that it has been air castles, or too poorly planned proposals, which will take many years to repair. In many cases, efforts have also been aimed at creating a school that is no longer based on principles of equivalence and equality. What, then, of the current draft budget that has been presented? The preschool today has a mission to support children in their language development, both in their mother tongue and in Swedish, for those children who are newly arrived. Here the right wing believes that there is research showing that preschools where the majority of children have a mother tongue other than Swedish have not succeeded in their mission, but to give any examples of any research that states such a thing. They also say that for those children who never or very rarely meet the Swedish language at home, a special language preschool is needed for them to know Swedish when they start school. I think we're seeing people on separate worlds. Children of that age are incredibly easy to learn a language. The fact that preschool staff are currently having a tough time and going on their knees because there is too little staff is a fact. The fact that temporary solutions may sometimes be needed to give all children, including new arrivals, a good pre-school course is also a fact and nothing strange. But let us be honest: this proposal is not about either helping newly arrived children learn the language – their families have also been divided because of the migration legislation that the same parties are behind – or helping preschools in their mission to support their language development in order to move forward in school. It is about separating children as early as possible. Contrary to what is said, research shows that children who are separated at an early age get the feeling that they are not like everyone else. These are words that I have taken from the National Board of Education and that were published three months ago. It notes this fact. Nevertheless, the outermost right-wing bloc continues with a hafsverk which will not even be carried out during this parliamentary term because it will take too long to investigate it. Hopefully we'll have another government before then. Then we come to the next budget line, where the same outer edge block is committed to preparing for the introduction of a ten-year primary school. The preschool class is scrapped and converted into class 1. A very important transition between preschool and comprehensive school is thereby abolished. There is much to say about the introduction of the ten-year primary school. However, the fact that this initiative also consists solely of training for the pre-school class staff is laughable – not because the pre-school class staff do not need further training, on the contrary, but because the pre-school class at such short notice and with the lack of teachers today cannot tackle the challenge we face at the same time as it faces ten-year primary school. Let me quote Åsa Fahlén, Chairman of the National Association of Teachers: She also mentions that the right wing lowers the tax on high-income earners but notes that the median wage among primary school teachers is 32 900 SEK a month, that is, about 10 000 SEK lower than what is required to get tax relief from the extreme right. Since the Left Party began to negotiate with the S- and MP government during the last parliamentary term, despite our role as an opposition party, we have received a series of initiatives on Swedish welfare and not least in the education system. We in the Left Party are not satisfied and want to go much further, but we are pleased with the efforts that have been made at the initiative of us. The renovation of school premises is an example, as well as investments in outdoor environments in preschool and school. These efforts are now completely removed in the draft budget from the far right. Similarly, as Matilda Ernkrans also mentioned, we can mention the hundreds of millions that would have gone to the equality and equivalence work in school. Madam President, I would like In preschool and school, children learn about gender equality and how important it is. In the Riksdag, the Right decides to close down an authority that works specifically with gender equality issues. This happens one year after the Me Too revolution, when staff and school students started various campaigns to alert the rest of society to the sexual violence and sexism that also occurs in the school world. It is also done with the help of a party that has representatives who, as revealed last week, have online accounts that spread misogynism and tell people how to rape women. In preschool and school, we learn that we must show concern for our environment and climate. However, when 15-year-old Greta and other young people are conducting a huge opinion formation on the question of the fate of our time, they are met by a hateful right which also removes resources for environmental measures and abolishes the effort we made with the government, where thousands of young people were allowed to ride free buses during the summer. In preschool and school, children learn that racism is wrong. Racism is an ideology we must never accept or normalise. In the Riksdag not only the door to the extreme right is now opened, but the extreme right is now allowed to own the keys of the Moderates and Christian Democrats to this door. Sweden recently celebrated that we have the right to vote for a hundred years. We call it the 100th anniversary of democracy. To tailor a budget in order to obtain the active support of the extreme right is to spit on all those people who have fought their whole lives for just people's equal rights and for democracy. Think about this, the Center Party and the Liberals, the next time you slap your fist in the table when Åkesson says something you dislike or think is racist or the next time a party leader promises his child that you will never cooperate with the extreme right! So who are the winners of this budget? Is it the teachers in preschool and school, is it the school pupils or school staff or someone else who works in the educational system? The answer is quite simple: No, it is once again the richest in our society that are the winners of the budget now presented by the Alliance. That's the logic for the right: One should always benefit the rich, always lower taxes for the rich and never ever spend enough money on our welfare and our school.
i-8MHLN5LTr5s6xdiJXW2gDc	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Daniel Riazat, for your speech. First of all, let me note that the targeted state subsidies referred to by Daniel Riazat in relation to, among other things, the renovation of school premises and equality money end on the last December of this year, regardless of what the transitional budget says. Thus, with the authorisation to spend the money ending on December last, that money is not available in 2019. This is what Daniel Riazat knows very well, because it is something that Parliament decided when it adopted the previous budget from S, V and MP. So that money will disappear on the last December, whether the transitional budget goes through or not. Then I feel the need to respond to the discussion about the preschool class and to make comprehensive school ten years old. We are convinced that it will strengthen the progression of the school system and the acquisition of knowledge if the preschool class does not become the independent satellite as it is today in the school system. There is quite a lot of research to prove this. Among other things, there is Swedish research that states that Swedish preschool students themselves believe that they will start school when they start the preschool class and then become disappointed when they realize that it is only a year later that the school begins. The proposal is not about extending the teaching period or even about changing the educational content of the preschool class, as sometimes appears. The preschool class should look more or less like it does today, but we want it organisationally to be part of primary school, so that we can avoid the kind of unnecessary handover that we know a stadium change unfortunately means, where many students fall out and slip behind. I do not really see what the Left Party finds so provocative in this. What's so stupid about doing high school four years old? In what way would it be stupid if pre-school education could go into primary school for those students who need more of pre-school education?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-494	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by answering the question about school premises and outdoor environments. Erik Bengtzboe, who is skilled rhetorical, can always try to say that this is something that would not be included in the budget. But now it is included in the transitional budget, which means that they have given an authorisation to the authorities to distribute this money. What the people are losing is about SEK 680 million, which you are taking away from the bet. You can explain this to local politicians, your party friends, school students and others who in many ways have neglected school premises and outdoor environments and who would have needed this money. You'll have to answer for this, not us from the red-green side. When it comes to the preschool class and that it is to be converted into class 1, it is tragic that you are making such a big deal out of this issue, if you mean that there is no difference anywhere and that the trade unions and others are also wrong on this issue, that is to say that the profession is wrong and the Moderates are right. I mean the other way around. I believe that we as politicians must listen more to the profession. In this case, it is clear that it is not just a question of changing names and calling it class 1, it is a question of what the Moderates are always pushing for research, namely that we should constantly have more demands on our children of lower ages. I have nothing against the demands or expectations of children; there is research that shows that it helps. It's just that the research you refer to, that it would be terribly good to have Class 1 instead of the preschool class, does not exist.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-496	Madam President, I would like Well, Daniel Riazat, that research exists, and it is represented by Åsa Fahlén and the National Association of Teachers, who has a strong demand for the next government to include the preschool class in comprehensive school and that comprehensive school should be made ten years old. On the other hand, they have reservations about extending the teaching period. Daniel Riazat would know if he had read the debate article by Åsa Fahlén to which he himself referred. It makes a huge difference if we can guarantee that those students who are in the preschool class and who, for various reasons, need extra support and efforts can continue to get these students into primary school. Today we know from all the evaluations that we get that an enormous number of students lose this support and these efforts when handing over from preschool to primary school are made. The preschool class became compulsory with the support of the Left Party. It's already in place. Why not make it easier for teachers to accompany and care for the students?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-499	Madam President, I would like Of course! When it comes to research that deals with more teaching time of lower ages, it certainly does not exist. On the other hand, Erik is right that there are various reports when it comes to the introduction of ten-year primary school or not. I would like to say that it has been a rather clever tactic of you, Erik Bengtzboe, to talk about these issues in order to avoid talking about the fact that you depart from the principle of how to act in such a budgetary situation as the country is in. You have opened the door to the extreme right, embraced much of their rhetoric and simply given them the key to this door. I think that much more focus should be on this. The Moderates not only invest less in school but also open the door to the extreme right.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-503	Madam President, I would like In the midst of the agitation we heard earlier there were some concrete comments from Daniel Riazat, including about children and their access to the opportunity to learn Swedish. You said we probably meet different kids, Daniel Riazat. That's probably true, because you meet children the most in Falun and I mostly in Malmö. What we and other parties have talked about in connection with access to preschool and to simplify the opportunities for children who have come to Sweden to learn Swedish is about children actually need to learn Swedish. We can see today that children who come to Sweden before school start are less likely to pass school, for example because they fare worse in Swedish and in Swedish as a second language. There is a concrete need. If we want all children to have the same opportunities to pass school and move on to high school and create a future, the key is language. Today, it is not fully achieved, not even for children who have come to Sweden before school begins. I wonder: Do you not see the need to ensure that more children have better access to the Swedish language and to start even before school, so that all children can have the same opportunities?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-506	Madam President, I would like I happen to be one of the children who came when I was relatively young. I have good examples of how the Swedish school works best when it integrates students and includes them in the regular school activities. Contrary to the logic represented by the right, where you should constantly separate the children, who get the feeling of not belonging to a larger group and not being like everyone else, I have experienced exactly the opposite. When I compare with those who went at the same time as I didn't get the chance I got, I see the difference in their study results. I would therefore like to say that it is exactly the opposite, which is exactly what the National Agency for Education shows: the more we separate the children from each other, the less they will learn both the language and the other subjects in which they are less successful. It is quite obvious: An inclusive system leads to students feeling part of the group. At that point, it is also easier to teach. You can argue against the research, Niels Paarup-Petersen-Petersen, but then I would like to have evidence that there is something against the existing research and empirical studies that have been done. These were released three months ago, as I said. I would like to say that it is a failure to separate children. I don't think you have the purpose of separating children, Niels Paarup-Petersen-Petersen, but I think you really want the children to be able to attend a good preschool and learn the language as soon as possible. But read a little between the lines of those you have released in the budget – the outer edge right! They don't have the same purpose as you. The question to Nils is, what do you say about this?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-510	Madam President, I would like Daniel Riazat is very good at talking about the right, and you can prioritize your time for this. I asked rather what the Left wants to do on this occasion, because this is the fundamental question when you stand here as a politician. It is not about what all the others want to do but about what I or we want to do, what vision we have for society and how we want to implement it. We can definitely spend a lot of days just blaming each other and complaining about everyone else, but I don't think society gets so much better by it. My question was: How do you want to ensure that children who come here to Sweden actually get the knowledge of the Swedish language that gives them the same opportunities to get through the school as my children, who were born in Sweden? How can we achieve this? Today, they have much less opportunity to pass school. This shows all the statistics, and that is the real problem, not the budget that someone else stands for.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-512	Madam President, I would like It is true that when we have a school system or a preschool system where there are not enough staff, where the efforts for quite a few years have unfortunately not gone to the staff or to develop language support activities and other things it gives a bad result. At the same time, we should be honest and say that Swedish preschool is among the best in the world. Swedish preschool is world class, when it comes to both general and linguistic activities. What children need is more investment in language support in, for example, preschool, which already exists and which the red-green parties have given more money to in recent years. What they need is to be included. Children learn at most when they are between two and four years old, according to all research. It is not rocket research we are talking about, but it is about actual needs that all children have, more staff and more investment in language supporters. Then this will work itself out.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-515	Madam President, I would like First of all, we would like to declare from the Liberals that, with our budgetary motion and the framework that we have presented, we have not won the floor of this House, we will abstain from today's vote on the budget. Madam President, I would like It is often said that we have major problems in Swedish schools, and that is correct. But if you look at the results and results over time and how many of them manage to pass through comprehensive school and upper secondary school, we think it is generally going well. We must also give a great deal of thanks to all the staff in preschool, school, high school and the entire education system who do their utmost every day. I understand their frustration sometimes when they watch the school debates and think we're just blacking out. I can guarantee that many of us who are involved in school policy really see the enormous efforts that school leaders, principals and teachers make daily. With Swedish school being so crucial and central in our democracy and in our society, we still cannot accept that about one student in four leaves compulsory comprehensive school without passing grades on one or more subjects. There is nothing more important than that all children and young people who leave the Swedish comprehensive school should have learned to read, count and write before they go on in life. There is no more important political goal for which we must work. More people have to go through comprehensive school with a passing grade. The other day, the committee drew attention to the problem of so-called home sitters, and we have also highlighted it a number of times in recent days. In fact, Madam President, it is a very sad chapter which further indicates that many children and young people do not receive the support and assistance to which they are entitled under the School Act. We saw in the Cold Facts programme on TV4 about a month ago that about 5,500 children and young people do not go to school. Some people call them schoolteachers. Some say they deliberately don't. I have learned and accept the explanation that it is an involuntary absence that they represent. They get bullied, they get ostracized and they get singled out. To this, Madam President, should be added that they do not receive the support to which they are entitled at school. This is totally unacceptable, and it is a huge failure of Swedish school systems. We have therefore proposed hiring more special teachers, saving the special resources – the special classes and the smaller teaching groups – and including where to include, which in turn requires competent and qualified teachers. Although these children are offered a place in a special teaching group, they cannot be placed there with just anyone, but must be teachers who can handle these children. It is a major failure, perhaps the biggest failure, that at least 5 500 children in our country do not go to school today because in one of the richest countries in the world we are unable to offer them the right schooling. In the autumn of 2018, 17 200 pupils left comprehensive school without being formally eligible for a national upper secondary school programme. On the other hand, we can see that it is also moving in the right direction. In 2018 compared to 2014, when we reformed the upper secondary school reform, there are 4 000 more young people who graduate from upper secondary school; and this is positive. So positive things are also happening. It is even so, even though our critics did not believe and do not believe in vocational and apprenticeship programmes, that in fact more students have attended a vocational programme leaving the new upper secondary school. And there are more who leave upper secondary school with a final grade and a high school degree, which is amazing. Anyone who has applied for a job and been invited to a job interview knows that one of the most important questions is: Do you have a complete and completed upper secondary school education? This is therefore an important ticket further in life to complete upper secondary education. We want to strengthen professional programmes, we want to strengthen apprenticeships and we want to restore the reduction that the Social Democrats made of apprenticeship pay. We have explained this in our budget motion. We also want to increase apprenticeship pay by SEK 5 000 per month to further increase collaboration with the industry and bring in more young people who choose to go that way and get this opportunity in life. We can discuss school policy and education policy for as many hours as we can. However, there is a key element that I would like to highlight in particular during my remaining minutes, and that is the most important and crucial role of the teachers. There is no more important measure than recruiting the best students and teachers to the school system. We have to keep teachers. Today, many teachers – 38 000 trained teachers – have chosen to do something completely different for various reasons. They've been four or five years in teacher training. But then they have realized that the teaching profession was nothing for them, that they cannot do this task or that they do not have the right conditions and the right working environment. The most important thing is to keep the talented educators and teachers that we have. This is done with a good working environment, with good career opportunities and with higher wages. I'm disappointed. Whether it is this budget or the original budget that goes through, there is no strong and long-term investment in higher teacher salaries. When it comes to attracting teachers back, teachers' salaries are a part. A lot of people say it's about a better working environment. They say that if they were to get better conditions and better conditions, they could actually think of coming back. But they do not want to devote their time and energy just to administrative tasks, to call and chase parents, or to begin the first 20 minutes of a lesson trying to get order in the classroom. So other things are needed. We need to recruit good teachers, and it's urgent. According to the forecast I have seen, 70 000 more teachers are required immediately. So it is true that we want to help recruit more people. But we are very critical of the irresponsible expansion plan that the government has begun by teacher training. 50% drop out of teacher training. The most important explanation is poor pre-knowledge from high school. Teacher students are not motivated, they do not have the right attitude, and they may even be inappropriate. If you continue to allocate more resources and add more places when there is no competition, it will mean that those who apply will enter teacher training regardless. And it is on the most important subject teacher education and similar educations that we really need the very best. We must therefore do more to keep teachers, attract back teachers and recruit the best and most important ones. Then we'll reverse the school results. Then we can also restore the status of the teaching profession.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-530	Madam President, I would like I have a very simple question which I still think Roger Haddad will have a very difficult time answering. In the election movement and even after the election results came, and where it was found that the red-greens were the largest, that the Alliance was the smallest block and that the extreme right had moved forward, Jan Björklund, who is Roger Haddad's party leader, said that he had promised his child that he would never ever contribute to the power of the extreme right and racists. I wonder: what happened then during the budget vote? Nevertheless, there was an alternative way to go, the way of responsibility, so to speak, where the responsible and decent parties chose to make a transitional budget together. Why did the Liberals choose not to keep the promise that Jan Björklund had made to his child to never let the extreme right have political influence, which it has now received in Sweden? Why did you let such a budget go?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-532	Madam President, I would like There is no government, and government discussions are still ongoing. I find it remarkable that Daniel Riazat is making this speech at all, because the budgetary process has been very complicated. The reason we don't have a proper budget is because we don't have a government. You can have comments on this proposal, but to answer your question, Daniel Riazat: what we have done is to vote on our proposal. We do not believe in the Social Democrats' budget, and we do not believe in the Left Party budget. Besides, you've been in charge of this country for four years, through your budget collaboration. We are the party that spends the most money on the whole field of education for the coming years. You could have voted for it if you were concerned about the education budget; plus 2.8 billion you would have got. We have followed the practice we have always followed, namely voting on our proposal and abstaining from the final vote. The reason for this is that we are not part of any collaboration with M and KD, for example. Sure, there are some proposals in their budget that are recognised from the alliance programme, but this is a way for us to declare that we are not part of the basis for this. We are not part of the S-base either, which is why we have abstained.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-535	Madam President, I would like Now it sounds at Roger Haddad like this is a year like everyone else, and it's not. In a normal financial year, the parties or constellations put forward their proposals, and then they vote exactly as Roger Haddad said they usually do. The fact is, however, that this year we are in a parliamentary situation where it is a matter of supporting a transitional budget, that is, not my budget, not the budget of Matilda Ernkrans or the Social Democrats and not the budget of any other party. It is therefore a question of drawing up a proposal for and supporting a common budget in order to ensure that the state can be managed. It's the only reasonable thing in such a situation. It also sounds like you haven't let through the budget you've actually let through. In fact, by abstaining from voting, you chose to give power over the budget to the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-538	Madam President, I would like It is correct that the consistency of our decision is that an M and KD budget is going through. As a Member of Parliament, I still think it is less harmful than the Left Party budget – absolutely. In addition, there are strong reinforcements in the field of education and, not least, in economic policy. That is what will then be evaluated later, i.e. whether it was right or not. However, do not exaggerate the budget that has now been adopted, Daniel Riazat! It only changes the margin of the original budget. Just look at the field of education and research: it is in a number of areas that you go in and change, but otherwise the budget that the transitional government has submitted to Parliament is applicable. You didn't say that, but it's a fact.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-540	Madam President, I would like To take up where the last line was closed, I would like to ask, just for clarification: does Roger Haddad mean that he sees marginal differences between the transitional budget and the M-KD-SD proposal in general or precisely in relation to the questions of the Education Committee? I see, of course, that there are dramatic changes in a number of areas – the closure of large parts of the state's gender equality policy, the slaughter of environmental policy, etc. However, in the areas of the Committee on Education and Training, there are minor changes. Madam President, I would like What I asked for to say is, first of all, that I was very happy to hear Roger Haddad's speech. In many parts I feel the same commitment and frustration about the situation today. 5,000 children who do not go to school every day are a failure for society. I think it is important and valuable that we start talking about these children as the responsibility of society rather than pointing the finger at individuals – parents, children themselves or, for that matter, teachers. This is a social responsibility, and I look forward to finding solutions together. Then I have a comment about teacher training. I share the view that not enough graduates are a major problem. However, I see that the biggest challenge is that teachers get far too little teaching time. What do the Liberals want to do about it?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-543	Madam President, I would like There were many issues, but in concrete terms of teacher training we would like to focus resources on quality and not on quantity. It is not the number of training places that is the most important, but if you want to increase by 10 000 places and do not get the right applicants, the applicants come in on very low grades. The University Chancellor's Office has also stated that higher education institutions and universities cannot expect applicants to have higher grades than required, and it is the absolute lowest levels that are required. If you look at the stacks you can see that those with the highest grade unfortunately do not choose for example the subject teacher education. We have 8% drop-out from the medical program while we can have up to 35 - 40% drop-out from certain subject-oriented programs. We have also discussed here before that what primarily primary school but also upper secondary school delivers has a strong impact. In the long term, therefore, I think that is the most important thing. Instead of expanding these thousands of places and having even more places, we therefore want resources for higher education institutions to invest in quality. This may, for example, apply to more teachers and thus to more teaching hours. We want to introduce aptitude tests generally on teacher education, not just at individual universities, to assess quality. The VFU, supervision and practice must also be ensured so that it works. All of this is put out of play when you only want to maximize the number of students.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-547	Madam President, I would like I can certainly be open to the fact that the requirements for the specific competence may need to be reviewed. However, the question of aptitude tests has been evaluated and it has been concluded that it might not have the desired effect. In fact, it is the quality of the students – that is, the teachers – who graduate that is crucial, not the quality of the newly admitted students. However, it is a multi-annual education that will equip the students. I believe that the key to getting more people to complete their education is to improve quality, just as Roger Haddad has been partly involved. I believe that the key issue here is to increase the number of teaching hours a week, because today they are far too few.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-549	Madam President, I would like It is Annika Hirvonen Falk's party, together with the Social Democrats, that has run the Ministry of Education. We believe that instead of your policy and direction, resources should be redirected to quality and spending on, for example, more hours of teaching rather than just more places. I think this is the wrong way to go. It is also your government and your department, Annika Hirvonen Falk, who has opposed the Swedish Council for Higher Education and has said that we should have an aptitude test on the teacher training courses but that you want to see which variant. I think that's good. I have visited Jönköping University, which has decided to make this permanent. There they see only positive effects; it is higher quality and higher throughput, and the students are motivated. So they see that it has a positive effect.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-551	Madam President, I would like Perhaps the most important sentence of the School Act is: a child and pupils should be given support and encouragement so that they develop as far as possible. It does not say: Children of parents who are born in Sweden and who have completed higher education should receive support and incentives to develop as far as possible. All children and students – whether you have a special talent, a neuropsychiatric disability or just like the usual median – should be supported and stimulated and developed as far as possible. This is the guiding principle of the Green Party's school policy. This is why we want to implement the read-write-count guarantee that will ensure that all children bring with them the basic abilities needed to cope with schooling. This is why we want to invite researchers, professionals and student organisations in the dialogue on the school's major challenges in order to find solutions to today's challenges that have an impact on everyone. Madam President, I would like The school has great challenges. Inequality is one of the greatest. Today, parents' background still plays a greater role in pupils' performance at school than in what teachers they have and what teaching is being conducted. This is a major problem. We also have a segregation that reflects itself in school. Schools in one area may have dramatically worse results than schools in another area. Over the past four years, the Green Party has been working to shift the focus of the school debate from things that may be easier to grasp and solve, such as problems with caps or mobile phones, to the structural, major challenges. Through the work of the School Commission, a foundation has been laid that we now want to build on in order to achieve the objective that we have jointly written into the School Act. Teachers have a key role to play in meeting all of the school's challenges, but not all the challenges that we expect the school to work with can be put on the teachers. We have a great shortage of teachers; it is one of our biggest challenges for the next four years. That is why we need to make the teaching profession attractive, but we also need to ensure that teachers are relieved. More functions need to take place to a greater extent. It is not just about special educators, it is also about the supporting role of pupil health, both in social and learning difficulties and in the important issue of the well-being of pupils. Perhaps it is about teaching assistants, and perhaps it is about staffed school libraries. I hope that we can agree on long-term reforms for school in broad agreement. But I also believe, as many people have said, that the attractiveness of the teaching profession must be increased, so that more people want to remain and develop in the profession. The proposal on professional programmes is something that the Green Party wants to move forward with. We believe that, if we provide a clear framework for what has now been career positions, teacher's salary boost and so on, it will both be clear to the individual teacher as to how this can develop in his profession and provide the tools for the heads to recruit teachers with the skills needed in that particular area. Madam President, I would like Today, schools with the greatest challenges often find it most difficult to recruit the skilled teachers. Where qualified teachers are most needed, they are missing more often. Here, too, clear professional programmes can make it easier; then a principal can make special demands for that particular school to recruit the most competent teachers. One of the major reforms that the Green Party has pushed through in recent years is equality billions. It is a historically great investment in school that gives more to all and most to those who need it best. The equal opportunities billions, when fully expanded, will comprise $6 billion. My hope is that the government taking office will pursue this important effort. The Green Party also wants a similar initiative to be carried out for preschool. For us preschool is an important part of schooling. We want to protect the bridge of the preschool class today. We believe that we should build on the concept of success that we have and that we actually thought we agreed on across block borders since the agreement reached at the end of the last parliamentary term, when also the preschool class became compulsory. Madam President, I would like I look forward to continuing work on the structural challenges facing the school instead of hasty reforms over the heads of teachers' and researchers' knowledge. The Green Party is pleased that the results in Swedish schools have now turned around. It is a work victory for everyone who works in school, that is, for teachers and students. We look forward to taking Swedish school to the top of the world if we can take part in the next four years.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-565	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by taking the opportunity to tell you about my friend Muhammad. Muhammad came to Sweden just over three years ago. He then came as a young teenager from a war-torn Syria – perhaps not the absolute best conditions you can have at the start of your adult life. Now, a little over three years later, Muhammad has already finished high school with top grades and has the aim set for him to become a doctor and stay in Sweden. His Swedish is undoubtedly better than mine. Madam President, I would like This is perhaps the clearest example of the huge difference a well-functioning school can make. It is with school and education that we can make class trips possible for people in the most serious way. It is by equipping everyone with the knowledge and skills needed in life that we can create life chances. By doing this, we also make sure that we provide skills for all Swedish companies and Swedish welfare. Madam President, I would like Knowledge is not only modern industrial policy; knowledge is also modern distribution policy. If you want to guarantee that no child should have to inherit their parents' exclusion, you do so through a good and well-functioning school. Madam President, I would like This budget contains many important steps to strengthen the focus on knowledge in Swedish schools, and these are much-needed reforms. Today we have a situation where every sixth student does not pass comprehensive school and therefore does not qualify for upper secondary school. We can see particularly clearly how knowledge of mathematics and Swedish is falling behind in early years and how students at middle school do not meet the knowledge requirements in these subjects. It is quite clear, at least we in the Moderates believe, that we need not only a clearer focus on previous support but also on previous teaching to ensure that we meet the high ambitions we have in terms of being a knowledge society and being a school that actually makes serious of its compensatory mission. Madam President, I would like Schools and education receive with our budget 2.38 billion more than they have this year. We are now laying the foundations for enabling a ten-year primary school, we are making it possible to increase teaching time and we are already investing in smaller children's groups in preschool, because we know that these are important measures to ensure higher education. I note that there are parties that want to give the impression that they have even higher ambitions for Swedish schools. Then you can put those ambitions on the table, and we can discuss them in substance. But to refer to a transitional budget that does not contain any factual policy, that as Sweden's largest political party not even able to deliver a napkin sketch, is remarkable. Madam President, I would like We also have a special responsibility in this budget for those who have the weakest conditions, and let us honestly state that Swedish school has failed in the compensatory task. It is not today that all pupils, regardless of their background, are guaranteed good schooling, but the differences are devastatingly great. We have schools today where every other student does not pass elementary school and where many fall behind and fall out. That is why we are making targeted efforts in the form of language preschools, and that is why we are strengthening with more career teachers in exclusion areas. We also strengthen the possibility of validation of new arrivals' skills in order to speed up and tighten integration even more. The equivalent billions, which have been involved in the debate in the past, are being expanded to the EUR 3 1⁄2 billion promised, and general support for municipalities is increasing by an additional EUR 3 1⁄2 billion. These are much-needed resources so that the high ambitions we have for our welfare can be met. It is money that can be used for more teaching assistants, higher salaries, to relieve teachers in other ways and allow them to focus on their core mission, namely the provision of knowledge. Madam President, I would like At the same time, let us note that this budget is not all and far from sufficient. Much more needs to be done. Efforts are needed to strengthen security and peace of mind in Swedish schools. Teachers need to be more and better equipped. The role of leisure homes needs upgrading. We need to clear the state subsidies to refine the school's mission, and we need to ensure that the state takes greater responsibility for those schools that are unable to deliver. But none of this is possible without us having a new government in place to deliver these decisions. This is a good budget for Swedish school, but Swedish school also needs a good Minister of Education. Allow me, Madam President, in particular, to touch on the teachers of Sweden. The teachers of Sweden are those who are doing all the work that we are talking about in this House at all possible. They are perhaps our society's most important resource when they take on the education of the future with joy and enthusiasm every day. Measures such as a professional programme, additional resources for career services, relief through teacher assistants and clearing up unnecessary bureaucracy are necessary reforms that need to be put in place as soon as possible during the term of office in order for teachers to be given the right conditions. Madam President, I would like Teachers also need to be increased if they are to complete their mission. That is why we need to explore the possibility of independent teacher training. We need to have higher demands on teacher education but also more teaching time for those who are well there. We need to make it easier to re-train from other professions to teachers. And we need to make it easier to recruit teachers from abroad – something that many municipalities are already forced to do in order to be able to supply their businesses with skills. These are not just important reforms to strengthen Swedish school today. It is also the cornerstones for enabling future reforms. It is impossible to increase the ambitions of Swedish schools if there are no teacher resources. And I understand that many teachers find it provocative that another year goes by without much-needed reforms coming into place. Madam President, I would like We have a transitional government, but we do not have a transitional holiday. The transitional budget that has been presented contains in large parts a scaling-down, but would also be of great concern to the committee's remit. The frame is large, but the content is even worse. In the transitional budget, it is half a billion kronor that disappears from higher education and research in a situation where teachers and engineers need to become more, not fewer. This restores the Moderates and Christian Democrats. The transitional budget is also a particularly severe blow to universities of applied sciences. With the proposal on the table from the government, draconian reductions in the number of start-ups would become a reality, while the labour market screams for the very skills trained at the university of applied sciences. 11,000 places would disappear unless the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats were to go through before the New Year. This is not a reasonable development. The University of Applied Sciences has had a great deal of confidence in this House. Nine out of ten students at the university of applied sciences get a job, and it is also much needed jobs in the Swedish labour market. Despite the broad support that the University of Applied Sciences has been promised orally by the parties in this Parliament, it is not able to deliver a budget that ensures that the activities can develop at the pace that it has promised. I therefore think it would be irresponsible not to make the necessary changes. I am therefore pleased that we are firing a quarter of a billion to secure those roles. Madam President, I would like A good and well-functioning school creates social mobility. If we want Sweden to be a country that competes with knowledge and not with low wages, it is through education that we build the basis for this. And if we want to make a reality of fine political phrases that it is not your background that will determine your future, it is through a good and basic schooling that we create life chances and possible class trips. To conclude, I would like to support the committee's proposal and, therefore, a budget that will increase the focus on knowledge, increase the number of career teachers, increase the school of praise, increase the teaching time, ten-year primary school, strengthen the integration of children's groups in preschool, through more first teachers in exclusion areas, higher salaries, special language preschool for new arrivals, strengthen the validation of new arrivals' skills, full extension of equivalence billions in 2019, general support for welfare of EUR 5 billion, as well as strengthened support for higher education and research of half a billion and a total restoration of support for both vocational and vocational colleges – not entirely ill of a napkin sketch.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-587	Madam President, I would like A top-class school is a prerequisite for Sweden to continue to stand up well in the future and for every child to have the opportunity to develop as much as possible based on their potential. Few tasks are more important than re-establishing the knowledge focus of the Swedish school. That everyone should have the opportunity and the opportunity to succeed in their schooling is the most important issue. The school faces major challenges. It is not enough to provide more resources, but it is important that we also do the right things. The school's main task is to convey knowledge, to stimulate students' intellectual development and to prepare children and young people for adulthood. The school also has a photo mission. The school will build on, and pass on, the values and virtues that are central to a good life and a good society. The school should not only train people to manage the labour market, but also to citizens who can be involved in managing and taking responsibility for society's common housing. If the school does not succeed in its mission, it will create major problems for the future for both children and young people and also for Sweden as a country. A really good school, which I think we are all aiming for, will require a large proportion of the most suitable in every generation to choose the teaching profession and that we also manage to keep our talented teachers. We have already been told by the speaker that today we have more than 38 000 teachers who have chosen to work with something other than the teacher they were trained for. SCB sees in its forecast that we will have a shortage of about 80 000 teachers in 2035. It is clear that this is very alarming, so early as we have to remind ourselves that it is in fact we who are in power and the opportunity to reverse developments. This, of course, is not something that is done in a quick turn, but we can reverse the development of the school. Several efforts need to be made, and the proposals now presented by M and KD are a good start. Madam President, I would like To make the teaching profession more attractive, opportunities are needed to make a career and to develop in the profession. More needs to be done for more of Sweden's most skilled teachers to go to the schools that have the greatest challenges. That is why we say that the career teacher system should be expanded in the coming years while increasing the focus on more first teachers in exclusion areas. The focus in 2019 will therefore be to increase the number of career teachers in exclusion areas, and first teachers in these areas will have a pay supplement of 10,000. Madam President, I would like Training that leads to strengthening Sweden's regional growth and that matches the needs of the different regions for skills provision is a priority. Here the University of Applied Sciences has come to play an important role and have an important role throughout the country. The results for the university of applied sciences are good; 93 per cent of those who have graduated have work within one year of graduation. In addition, the vast majority of them are in a professional field that is consistent with the direction of education. These courses are popular. My picture is that municipalities and regions in the country are fighting to get their education applications granted. The fact that training takes place in close collaboration with the business community is also something that increases attractiveness. The University of Applied Sciences needs to expand, and in order for it to succeed, we allocate the funds in our budget that the previous government announced but which are not included in the transitional budget. Madam President, I would like Let me also say something about a subject on which we have already had a change of line. In today's globalised world, people with knowledge and understanding of different cultures and beliefs are needed. Civil society has taken on a great deal of responsibility in the years we have had a great deal of immigration, and churches and communities have taken a great deal of responsibility in the work of integration. It is therefore important that communities have well-trained staff who can handle complex life situations. We also have a joint responsibility to ensure that the future staff and leaders of the churches are trained in our democratic tradition. We therefore allocate funds to three theological programmes. Madam President, I would like Let me also say something about preschool. The Swedish National Agency for Education's parental survey shows that parents are satisfied with the staff's work and with the pedagogy. On the other hand, they are less satisfied with the size of children's groups. Both the Swedish National Agency for Education's own reports and the Swedish School Inspectorate's quality review show that both staff and parents believe that children's groups are too large. The National Agency for Education provides a benchmark for the number of children in children's groups in preschool 6 – 12 children for children aged one to three years and 9 – 15 children for children aged four to five years respectively. If the benchmark for children's groups were followed, we would have reason to be relatively satisfied. However, the Swedish National Agency for Education notes that it is a difficult situation with large groups of children in many parts of the country. More than 55 per cent of the smallest children live daily in groups of children far above the Swedish National Agency for Education's benchmark of maximum number of children. The teachers' association's survey of 1 294 preschool teachers in 2017 shows that one in three preschool teachers work with a children's group consisting of 21 children. Pedagogues who work in preschool testify to an untenable situation. Municipalities can apply for a state grant to reduce the size of children's groups in preschool. It has turned out that many more people are applying for this grant than there are funds for. This is why we contribute SEK 400 million a year to this, in addition to the SEK 830 million that the state grant now consists of. We also believe that it must be a long-term goal for those applying for the grant to aim for the Swedish National Agency for Education's benchmark of a maximum of 12 children in groups of young children and a maximum of 15 children in groups for children aged four to five years. Preschool should be a quiet and safe place for all children who go there. There should be a known, safe embrace to crawl up in if a knee is scraped, and no child should have to experience stress in large, messy children's groups. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal in Category 16.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-605	Madam President, I would like Let me first state that we are not taking part in the decision but refer to our particular opinion. I will briefly tell you about our budgetary efforts in primarily higher education and research. I think it should also be touched on in this single debate round. The share of prominent nations in gross domestic product going to research and education is about 4 percent. However, the cut in Europe is smaller than that. Sweden is now a bit below this level, and in the long term we should increase the proportion of GDP going to research and education so that it is approximately at the 4% level. So, in future, there must be an increase in funding, and that is what we are aiming for. It should be said that Sweden is in no way bad in an international comparison. I checked the numbers last week, and we're actually pretty good at it. What, then, is the problem today with higher education? As I have mentioned before, the number of theoretical university students is not a major problem in Sweden today. Here we are very good internationally and in line with what can be considered relevant to society. The ideal and goal cannot be for everyone to attend theoretical higher education. Not everyone is there for it, and we need plumbers and electricians too. Madam President, I would like Today, society is in dire need of people taking certain vocational training courses. Let us therefore invest in universities of applied sciences so that they can make a more practical career suitable for them and so that society can function optimally. In the budget that went through there is also an investment in the university of applied sciences, I think I have noted. As far as research funding is concerned, we want to increase the direct funding for higher education institutions and reduce the funding for institutions that distribute conditional funding – this to safeguard and strengthen academic freedom for higher education institutions. It's a little contrary to what SVT's science desk claimed before the election when they did an interview with me. Of course, we believe that this proposal maintains or even increases the quality of research. We also believe that the strategic research areas to which the government allocates funding should be smaller but sharper. Priority should be given to prioritising and not squeezing out funds too widely. There has also been criticism from some higher education institutions that the proportion of external grants is too large, which has led to the higher education institutions having difficulty steering the research in the desired way. This problem would also be addressed with a higher proportion of direct funding. The number of institutions distributing appropriations should also be reduced. There is no point in having as many authorities with the same activities as we have now. This leads to excessive administration and difficulties for researchers to apply for funding. The optimal option would be for all applications to be submitted to the same state institution, but perhaps that is going too far. Fewer should they be anyway. Researchers should research and not spend half their time applying for funding. Researchers should essentially seek truth, not apply for grants. However, we want to invest money in a research institute. It has many other comparable successful countries. In Sweden, it would be excellent to build on RISE Research Institutes of Sweden to create such a powerful institute. We want RISE to expand its operations and develop the quality of its efforts as part of an effort to promote business-oriented growth-driven research. I have criticized gender education and gender research in this pulpit before because it is not always based on a scientific basis. I maintain the same criticism again this time. A non-negligible proportion of research and teaching resources goes to activities that are simply not based on scientific foundations and may not even be based on proven experience. However, let me be very clear on one point. Men and women should be treated equally, and not only that – they should be given the same opportunities to succeed, advance and make a career. On the other hand, it is very wrong when you demand the same outcome for men and women or for different groups at all. If the outcome is distorted, it may be because different groups have different interests. This can also – and this is important – be due to the fact that somewhere in the education chain there are not the same conditions, and then, of course, you have to go the difficult way and correct it. I'm going to another area. There have been reports that teacher-led teaching at certain higher education institutions and in some educations has fallen since the early 1990s. The same reports have eagerly pointed out that this has led to lower quality of teaching. That's why we invest a penny to increase the number of teacher-led teaching hours in higher education institutions. Which programmes and courses should apply, of course, the higher education institutions may decide at their discretion, but it is intended that this money should go specifically to increase the number of teacher-led lessons where what is most needed. By the way, this week I read a report from the teachers' newspaper that it is alarmingly a little teacher-led teaching time just on teacher training. This is anything but good. Maybe this extra money should go right there. If I remember correctly, the subject was discussed in a change of line here before, too. Now it is best to point out that it is not easy to compare the teacher-led teaching time in the early 90s with it today. We have digital learning tools that we didn't have in the '90s. Nevertheless, this is a problem today. We have problems getting enough students on lack of vocational education – such education that society needs and where there is a shortage in business. How do we remedy this imbalance? We want to give an extra SEK 1 000 per month in student funding to those students who choose such an education, in order to attract more students to these courses and the shortage professions. We are sure that such an effort will pay off for the future. If we get a better match when it comes to what the labour market needs, everyone benefits from it – students, business and society. I was going to finish with a few brief words about our efforts in primary school. We have invested money mainly to create a good and safe classroom climate in schools. We believe that this is the most important individual issue – for the sake of students and teachers, and not least in order to increase the results of studies. If one believes that it is possible to solve the problems of today's school simply by increasing the salaries of teachers, I can say that, in any case, we believe that this is quite the wrong way to go. We need to have quiet and secure classrooms in all our schools, not just in the schools in Danderyd. A wide range of measures will be needed to tackle the galloping mess in schools that occurs in certain areas. Not all of these measures are primarily economic in nature.
i-Us7BXX8smxya1Qj6XmvSU4	Madam President, I would like The gender equality authority is to be closed down. This is what the Christian Democrats and the Moderates propose with the support of the Swedish Democrats in their budget for Category 13 Gender equality and the establishment of newly arrived immigrants. What does this have to do with Category 16 Education and university research, which we are debating now? A lot, actually. For example, the gender equality authority is responsible for coordinating work on gender mainstreaming in higher education institutions and universities. How do the Christian Democrats, the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates think that this work will be coordinated when the agency is closed? Should the work of higher education institutions and universities continue, or will it be discontinued after the end of 2019? The Christian Democrats, the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates were against the establishment of the Equality Agency, but to remove it now without evaluating the activities just feels sulky, especially as the parties were unable to show how they want it instead. This means several steps back for gender equality in Sweden. Women are in the majority of basic education. Yet most of all research funding goes to men's research, and the majority of all professors are men. I am convinced that the work on equal higher education and research will not be completed by the end of 2019. There is a need for continued coordination. The Left Party believes that the university should actively combat all forms of discrimination. It will promote gender equality and combat gender stereotyping educational choices, for example through an integrated gender perspective in education. Knowledge and competence in LGBTQ issues also need to be improved. In order for the work for equal education and research to be coordinated and pursued, the Gender Equality Agency is needed. Furthermore, the university and research are not free from society in general. Women's and men's perceptions also affect resource allocation systems. Men's view of women affects the way men treat women. This shows not least the Academy call, the university's answer to the metoo. I hope that in this debate I will find an answer to how the right-wing parties intend to work for gender equality in higher education and research. Madam President, I would like Research at state universities and higher education institutions is financed from other expenditure areas. In several of these areas, the right-wing parties are making major cuts. These are cuts that affect the unemployed, the sick and the low-income groups, but they also affect the environment and environmental research, for example, as the funding for environmental and nature conservation is reduced. Isn't it commendable that climate research receives an extra boost, but then what? Research cannot be conducted in isolation from society. If we are to achieve climate and environmental objectives, research must also be translated into measures. The measures are now being saved away so that the rich can get reduced taxes. In my world, our common future is more important than for those who earn the most to receive tax cuts. Madam President, I would like We have a transitional government that is now forced to start from a conservative budget of cutbacks – a napkin sketch, as it is also called. It is a cut-off budget which makes it very difficult for the government that will hopefully soon be able to take up its policy and present an additional budget. We in the Left Party, together with the other red-green parties, advocated the adoption of the transitional budget by the Parliament. The other parties wanted to be different. The proposal we now have on the table is a compromise between Moderates and Christian Democrats. I note that most things in the field of education and university research are derived from the Moderate Budget Movement and that the Christian Democrats received one or two consolation awards, like 8 million for church studies. Congratulations KD, and congratulations to all high-income people who get this budget for Christmas by the right, despite the fact that you least of all need Christmas gifts! The rest of us are taking new steps and working towards an additional budget that benefits and corrects, which is based on welfare and reduction of gaps and which prioritises gender equality and climate change.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-635	Madam President, I would like She was born in 1938, mostly in a group of brothers and sisters of eight. By the time she turned seven, she had decided to become a nurse. Her m or shook up on her head. No one in the family had ever read on before and no money was available. After seven years in folk high school, jobs were waiting in grocery stores, in restaurants and in the old people's home. But the dream of becoming a nurse was still there. She gets married young and has four children. She still works at the nursing home where Sister Viola notes her good handshake and makes sure she gets into the nursing assistant's class one. That's where she gets a bleeding tooth. She thinks that if she moves on to assistant nurse maybe the step to nurse can be within reach. She reads in on rs k urs 8 and 9 and completes her un d erköterska exam. Sam works early at night at the nursing home and takes care of men and children. If the children are getting bigger, the nursing dream is once again brought to life. Does she dare seek? Will she be able to complete the training? Does she have any advice? She dared to seek and was finally accepted. It worked out with the economy thanks to study loans and extra jobs, and she passed the education. In 1986 my mother gets her long - awaited nursing degree and reaches the goals of her dreams. She's the first in her family to have an academic degree, and after that we've become more and more. This story is one of m steam that is about how education opens doors to new opportunities. Each story is the story of a unique individual who, with education as a basis, has been able to shape his life and achieve the goals of his dreams. Madam President, I would like In the past parliamentary term, the Social Democratic-led government has invested heavily in Komvux through a new knowledge boost and through the introduction of a right to competence-giving education. It has made SFI part of Komvux and has greatly expanded vocational adult education and training. Komvux has become a very popular part of Swedish education. This may be due to the fact that it is a question of the development of both man and society. At the same time as people get a chance to develop, we ensure that the skills needed in our growing economy are there. It is about the opportunity to reach the dream job, but also about being able to participate in the social debate and to be involved in building the common society. The benefits are the benefits of the individual, but the benefits are also the benefits of society as a whole. Madam President, I would like A social democratic education policy opens doors to the education system at all levels and provides support for those most in need. We know that people are education b ara. M a policy needs to help overcome the obstacles that exist in order for more people to dare take that step that can equip and strengthen for the jobs that exist now and the jobs that come to be l. For many, the economy is a major obstacle. Sweden has, in an international perspective, generous student support for adults who are training, and we shall continue to do so, Madam President. However, although the student benefit is favourable, there are those who refrain from studying because they do not dare or can use the student aid system, nor do they have any other opportunities to make a living during their studies. This is particularly true of older students who need to study at lower levels of education. The uncertainty of one is often due to uncertainty as to one's own ability to study. But it is also linked to a social background where there has been neither studies nor student loans. This, Madam President, is the reason why the S-led Government introduced the 'dudiestarts dödet' which came into effect from 1 July 2017. It is an aid aimed at unemployed people aged 25 to 56 who have a great need for education at a general or upper secondary level. So far, 5 000 people have been granted the aid and the forecast for next year is double. The student can receive 9 400 SEK onions per month for a maximum of 50 weeks of full-time studies. Our Social Democratic ambition is that as many as possible should achieve a high school degree, because that is what businesses, business and the whole labour market are demanding today. But, Madam President, in one of the requisitioning start-up aid, Moderates, Christian Democrats and Swedish Democrats have decided to abolish. The reason given is that fewer individuals are the subject of the aid than expected. Yeah, that's right. At the same time, previous efforts show that it takes time for a reform of this kind to take full effect. Instead of abolishing aid as a whole, Moderates and Christian Democrats could have proposed a lower allocation. But they have chosen not to. I therefore wonder, Madam President, whether the real reason really is that there are too few applicants. Are there other reasons why we want to abolish the start-up aid? Is there perhaps a political aversion to the broad educational approach advocated by the Ocial Democrats? Can we imagine ideological resistance from the right-wing parties to more people being given the opportunity to study at all levels? This is not the first time that bourgeois parties have abolished targeted and recruiting student aid. When the alliance government took office in 2006, the successful recruitment grant introduced by the then uncial democratic government was abolished and targeted at low-skilled individuals. Madam President, I would like The same applies to the training contract, which is also on the black list of the right-wing parties. Support for unemployed young people aged between 20 and 24 who do not have completed upper secondary education is targeted. They are given the opportunity to combine studies with work or internships. The reason for the abolition is said to be the risk of delaying young people's entry into the labour market. This is a completely incomprehensible explanation by the same parties that for eight years in government allowed youth unemployment to slip away so mildly that we received financial support from the EU. The S-led government therefore acted quickly and decided that no young person would have to wait longer than 90 days for an offer of a job, internship or education. Now that goal has been achieved, and youth unemployment is the lowest in 14 years. The Youth Contract is part of the success. Madam President, I would like An important part of the Swedish model is to make it possible for more people to be able to study further, change their careers and educate themselves throughout their lives and throughout the country. It can be about the dream job as a nurse, about developing your skills or strengthening your position in working life. This requires flexible and sustainable student support that can meet different needs of different groups in different life situations. Therefore, abolishing the start-up aid is completely the wrong way to go. It will exclude those individuals who would otherwise not study from the possibility of a basic or upper secondary education. It's hitting justice, it's hitting equality, and it's hitting our entire country. Madam President, I would like Our modern economy, society and business are under increasing pressure and under increasingly fierce international competition. Education – at all levels – is a key way to achieve this. This, Madam President, strengthens the individual. It strengthens equality. It strengthens our whole society.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-661	Madam President, I would like Next year it is exactly 100 years since Hjalmar Oskar Ahlberg received the first Swedish student loan in 1919. It was $1,500 (U.S.) for a full year to be repaid within ten years. It is an amount equivalent to about SEK 27 000 converted into today's monetary value. The amount was 100 per cent loan-based and thus lacked a grant component. It was an interest-free loan to facilitate study opportunities for gifted but poor disciples at public educational institutions. Since 1919 Sweden has developed, and 1965 laid the foundations for the system we have today. It is a well-developed study support system – possibly the world's most generous – to enable studies for people from all walks of life regardless of the individual's unique circumstances. The Swedish Democrats want to preserve this generous system because we believe that society will ultimately benefit enormously from a well-educated population. An education is tantamount to an investment. It is also fair to have a study support system where all people have the opportunity to study and develop their knowledge and abilities. In some respects, the Swedish Democrats want to see an even more generous system. This applies, for example, to professions where there is a shortage of staff, where we want to provide a targeted grant in the form of an increased study grant of SEK 1 000 per month during the study months for a certain number of study places. The start-up aid creates, as it is designed today, inequalities and gaps between groups. Those who do not belong to the narrowly targeted target group are referred to taking student loans to finance their studies as opposed to this form of grant, which means that the individual does not have to take out student loans for a period of time. The aid constitutes an unequal distortion in the funding of studies. Other variants and solutions that are not targeted at a specific target group need instead to be discussed and further explored. As mentioned earlier, it is almost 100 years since the first student loan was paid out. Small improvements and adjustments are ongoing, but if Sweden is to continue to be a world-leading knowledge nation, further improvements will need to be made. For example, we need to review the amount of the release as it stands today. If the individual considers that he or she can and wants to work alongside his or her studies, shall we, as legislators, set up obstacles and rules for how much work can be done? Rather, should we not believe in man's ability to determine and set his own limits? Is it not reasonable that in a Sweden where we live longer, feel better and are expected to work longer can also study further up the age range? With today's system, conditions are gradually deteriorating for the individual from the age of 47, and at the age of 56 there are virtually no opportunities for study at all. Many educations are getting longer and longer. The 240 weeks corresponding to twelve semesters when you receive student grants are becoming increasingly difficult to get enough, especially if you have made a wrong choice and wish to change direction. We are convinced that an investment in study and career counselors in primary and secondary schools could reduce the number of mischoices within my party. However, the group of people who later in life want to change direction or build on previous studies after having practiced for a number of years in their professional life is not helped by a study and career counselor in the same way. They are completely dependent on the 240 weeks or the 40 extra weeks after the age of 40 with the current restrictions. Perhaps the proposal that Saco's Student Council considers to be a degree loan is a seed and a first idea for further development of the student support system. In any case, the issue should be discussed further. We have a welfare sector that faces major problems where the lack of, for example, teachers, police officers, social secretaries and other academic groups is described as acute. The Moderates initially proposed that those who undergo police training should have their student loans written off from the training period. During the first five years as a police officer, one fifth of the student loan is written off each year. After five years, the entire loan has been written off. It is true that this proposal is not left in the joint motion by the Moderates and the Christian Democrats, but I still find it interesting. The proposals should be discussed and examined further and perhaps include other professions, such as teachers. There is an acute shortage of teachers and as many as 59 000 of all trained teachers work in areas other than school. Perhaps it could also include care, which is on its knees more and more? Again, the proposals should be discussed further. Madam President, I would like During 2019, I and the Swedish Democrats will spend a lot of time and work on developing new proposals and new bases for how we can develop student support and meet many of the challenges that we see and that I have described here today. I look forward to constructive talks with the other parties in the committee who wish to hold a dialogue for a Sweden that retains its place as a knowledge nation with the most generous system in the world to enable studies leading to work. I would like to conclude by mentioning that we do not have a request, but I refer to our particular opinion.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-676	Madam President, I would like No matter who you are, where you come from or what parents you have, you should have good opportunities to succeed in Sweden. Jobs and education are crucial prerequisites for this. Job is the most important key to breaking an alienation. But the ability to study and educate, regardless of the background, is crucial to getting a job. Providing high-quality education and training that is available is one of the most important tasks of the policy. For the individual, access to education means an opportunity for both education and personal development. But it also provides opportunities to get a job. For society, education means conditions to strengthen productivity in Sweden. But it is also about creating the conditions to meet the challenge that exists both in private companies and in the public sector when it comes to getting the right skills. In addition, training is important and effective for redistribution. Making education available enables people to even out their chances of life. The means of study play an incredibly important role in the education system. They give people who would otherwise not have had access to education the opportunity to study. Without the means of study, they may not have studied, despite the fact that the education had been profitable for the individual as an investment of their own. But that is not the case today. There are several reforms needed in this area. I would like to highlight one of the most important ones, which is not within this report. It is about education always having to pay off. It must be more profitable to train in Sweden today. This is one of the biggest problems we see. There are studies that show that four out of ten higher education institutions today do not pay off and that Sweden is the country where higher education pays the worst. It is incredibly important to ensure that more incentives are created for people to educate themselves. The means of study also have an important and crucial function for people to take the step of wanting to educate themselves. In the report, the Center Party highlights several reforms we want to see in this area. I would like to start by saying that we want to see a more flexible study aid system. In order to increase throughput so that more people go through higher education or adult education, the system needs to be more flexible. You need to be able to reward those who study their education at a faster pace. But it is also necessary to create conditions for those who, as a result of either illness or other difficulties, need to have a lower rate of study. They also need to have conditions in the Swedish education system. It also needs to be possible to study higher age levels in order to cope with the transition that we need and see in the labour market in the form of a longer working life, new jobs created and old jobs that disappear. Then need the opportunity to be able to retrain but also further educate themselves to be better. Then the study aid system needs to be improved. The Center Party has concrete proposals to create the conditions to be able to take student loans higher up the age range. The limit which currently limits student support after a maximum of six years and even after the age of 47 we want to change. The current system also says that after the age of 56 it is no longer possible to receive student aid. The Center Party wants to raise that limit, and we also want to ensure that you can have the opportunity to have two years of extra study money to study a supplementary university of applied sciences or a master's degree in higher education if you wish. It is about creating the conditions for people to be able to retrain themselves later in life. It is crucial to get the flexible working life and better study system that we see need for. It was disappointing that, during the previous parliamentary term, the previous government constantly highlighted the challenge of having to study throughout the country and throughout our lives without presenting concrete proposals on how to redeploy the study funding system in order to create the conditions for people who later in life want to retrain or retrain. The Center Party has concrete proposals to create better conditions for this. There are also things that are not in the report and about which the Center Party has not changed its mind, but which we think are incredibly important in terms of the study funding system. I'd like to highlight a few. First of all, the Center Party wants the loan part to be abolished, but also increased for the grant part so that people who feel that they have the ability to study and work at the same time will have the opportunity to do so in a better way than is possible today. It is about having faith in the individual, and in this way you can change the amount of the release. We also want incentives for debt relief when it comes to certain higher education. We have concrete proposals regarding Teach for Sweden and the possibility to write off student loans for those who participate there. We also have proposals for debt relief for those who move to sparsely populated areas. It was in the Rural Committee's report that was presented a few years ago. The study aid system is one of the most urbanized systems we have in Sweden. You get grants and very affordable loans to move to a good education in the larger cities. The study support system and a write-off of study funds for those who move to rural areas would be welcome in order to equalise and create better conditions for people to live and live throughout the country.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-688	Madam President, I would like We are now dealing with the education committee's category 15 expenditure relating to the study aid system. L ite too simple, for those sitting at home watching the debate, it is in principle about what concerns CSN's various components. The struggle of the working class for the right to education is as long as its history. It said two of my party's former party leaders, Lars Werner and C. ............................................................................................................................................ Hermansson. Contrary to the disinformation that has been spread by the right for a long time, education and knowledge have been the main tool for the labour movement. The labour movement has also had great success in the field of education. The material conditions for schooling have gradually improved with free meals and free teaching materials in much of the education system. The sorting parallel school that existed was abolished. Unfortunately, however, progress has stopped, and education is not always on equal terms for everyone. Madam President, I would like One of the most important prerequisites for making knowledge and education available to more people is to have a good student benefit system that provides social and financial security for students. Study funds and support that can be used as a means of living are also a prerequisite for being able to study full-time. It is therefore a prerequisite for creating the highest quality education and training on equal terms. In 2006, the Left Party contributed to making a supplementary allowance for students with children. I would also like to say that we are not ready with the current study aid system. M en let's be honest and say that it's unique in its kind if we compare with large parts of the world. It is an important factor that lays the foundation for everyone's right to knowledge. But perhaps it is the most important factor for the children and young people who belong to the working class and the lower class of our society and also for those people who may want to educate themselves later in life. Last year, the Left Party saw to it that the contribution part of CSN's study funds was increased. We made sure that after decades of the same low grant, high school students received a higher grant. We did so together with the Social Democrats and the Green Party. We also got through an investment in CSN loans for driving licences that are necessary when people are going to get a job. This is what happens when the Social Democracy cooperates to the left. Now that we are dealing with the napkin sketch or hafsverk to the budget that the outer edge right has presented, we are being told that the newly introduced study start-up aid will be abolished. What, then, is start-up support? Study start-up support, as has been said earlier here from the speaker's chair, is a grant that some unemployed people can receive during a shorter period of time to study a secondary school education and increase their chances of working. It is the municipality of residence that primarily assesses who belongs to the target group, and it is with the municipality that you are looking for. How does this fit with the right's so-called workline? How does this fit with a labour market that screams of skill shortages and an educational system that does what it can on a daily basis to develop flexible systems so that more people who are in unemployment end up in work while at the same time giving people the opportunity to re-train to meet the needs of the labour market? This is only about one thing. The right and the racists always choose the richest over the majority of the people. Let's look at their budget. It includes increased RUT contributions to well-off homes, reduced taxes for senior workers, abolition of reductions in trade union fees and low or non-existent efforts on the environment, climate change, gender equality, anti-racism and equality. It's the right. I would like to conclude by quoting one of my favorite authors and writers, Göran Greider. He says: a rich person must have more money to want to work. The poor less to want to work. It's liberalism. It's disgusting. .....................................................
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-698	Madam President, I would like Our society faces major challenges and changes. With automation, many people's work will change, and working life will be extended at the same time as we live longer and become healthier. This will require more people to retrain and change their tracks further up in their ages. The study aid system must enable the transition and education that our society needs and that our citizens dream of. The age limit of the study aid system needs to be increased. There have been a number of speakers on this subject today. Madam President, I would like It is also important to have flexibility in the system so that people, regardless of their situation in life, can acquire the education they need to participate in society and continue to work. The needs of those who have just left high school are very different from the needs of multiple parents who, in the middle of their lives, need to change their profession and retrain. There needs to be study funding systems for all categories. The fact that the start-up aid is now being cut so sharply that it will not be possible to grant start-up aid to new people is unfortunate. The Moderates and Christian Democrats believe that the system has not been effective. I wonder what they mean. Do they want to replace it with another system? If so, what is that system supposed to look like? When will that system be in place? The fact remains. These people, who are currently in unemployment and who lack the education required in today's labour market, namely the corresponding upper secondary school degree, are also present in 2019 and 2020. But the study money that has been put in place just to get the ticket out of unemployment, get the degree that employers require, is now being taken away. Sweden's economy is strong. We have a shortage of labour in very many sectors. At this point, we need to invest in education and training, so that those who are unemployed can take the jobs that are available today. I ask the Moderates and Christian Democrats again: what is your alternative to the start-up support that you are now abolishing? Madam President, I would like Otherwise, I will not be taking part in the decision in this House today, because the transitional budget that the Green Party would have preferred at the moment – without government – has fallen in this House.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-706	Madam President, I would like I'm sure a lot of people here would've wanted to be able to study. Many have also received higher education and have found that there were no worries about carrying it out. But for many others it is not that way. It is important that there is a form of student support. That is what we are debating in this area of expenditure. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal, based on the motion by Mr M and Mr KD, to be approved in the report. Student support is an important cornerstone of education policy as a whole. But it is also an important, often crucial, part to justify studying and providing financial opportunities for further study. There should be no financial obstacles to continuing training. That is why we want to spend EUR 25 billion in the state budget on study aid. In the past, they may have attended higher education as a young person, worked in that profession, and sometimes stayed in the same workplace for almost all their lives, until they no longer work. Now society has changed. New requirements and training will be required. As many have pointed out earlier, training will be required throughout one's working life. Therefore, it is important that we redo student support so that you can get student funding even at higher ages. The Moderates also have clear suggestions for getting help with student support at an older age. Madam President, I would like We also want to ensure that the expansion of regional vocational skills and university of applied sciences is included in the study funding system. These are important forms of education, as my colleague Erik Bengtzboe and also Jimmy Loord from KD have pointed out earlier. These are important training courses that largely lead to jobs after the education. We have discussed start-up aid and training contracts. It was introduced on 1 July 2017. We were in on it from the beginning when we saw that it could be an opportunity. There was a plan for 20,000 to participate. The first year was 2 600 and the second year 3 000. That's about 15% of what was meant to be. There have been many attempts to promote this. I have read many different articles that try to attract people to want study start-up support. There has also been an attempt to simplify the difficult rules but still not achieved. That is why we do not think it is a support that works. If we have support that does not provide the dividend that it is intended to receive, which is not effective and does not provide the opportunity for work, that system should not remain either. That's taking responsibility. I can reassure Pia Nilsson who wants us to reduce the funding. That's exactly what we're going to do. Until next year, we're going to halve the grant. Instead, we have other initiatives, as can be seen, for example, under the heading 14 of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. There we are talking about apprenticeships, learning – at work and other training courses. There are many different suggestions for what to do instead. Support that does not work should not remain. Often individualization is needed, not just general bets. Madam President, I would like We make several different bets that I want to sum up here: We are increasing funding for vocational training by 100 million and for polytechnic education by 160 million. We want to increase the grant to study funds for places in teacher and pre-school education by 29 million. We want to increase the funding for the expansion of places at the university by 88 million in general. We want the CSN to be increased by 14 million. This is an effort to phase out study start-up support completely in 2021. Madam President, I would like We also want more legislation to introduce paid police training. It is not enough to increase the number of places in police training. We must also ensure that you can get paid police training. With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report on Category 15. It's based on the exercise from M and KD.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-720	Madam President, I would like Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel Sandström says that it is not responsible to maintain this type of support that does not reach the accuracy that the Moderates are calling for. The member gives a completely distorted description of the start-up grant. It is 4,900 people who are receiving the aid today. The prognosis from CSN is that it looks double, according to data a few weeks ago. It's about individuals who wouldn't study otherwise. We have really managed to hit the right spot here. $400 a month is just a grant, not a loan. It is most irresponsible of the Moderates not to want to continue with this. It is now half the year 2019, as the honourable Member said. But it will be abolished by 2020. Then it disappears completely. What responsibility does Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel Sandström then take for these people and many more who are today without basic and upper secondary education? What responsibility do you assume? I understand that the Moderates are behind the three objectives of the student grant, including that it should appear to be recruiting. I have to ask: what proposals have you put forward, which I have perhaps overlooked, which are moving towards recruiting more people, so as to contribute to higher participation in education and training?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-725	Madam President, I would like So, as Pia Nilsson says, we want to do a half for next year. Instead, it is responsible to use support that works. You still don't get the individual fit that it's all about. As Mr Nilsson says, it is about individuals, and they absolutely have a great need for help. We do not think that the general support provides this aid. That's why we want to change it. Of course, we must have other methods of reaching these individuals. Then I'm talking about job matching. Through Arbetsförmedlingen you can reach several. Unfortunately, however, the Public Employment Service does not see the possibility that it thought would be given through study start-up support. I have read many articles about study start-up support to see if I can find somewhere where you have been in favour of it. Unfortunately, the articles say that it has been a fiasco. Sometimes it is said that it is an impossible system with so many complicated rules that you do not want to keep it. That's why I want a responsible system that works and allows individuals to get a job.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-728	Madam President, I would like I do not think that those affected by the aid today think it is a fiasco. I think it's a success that really makes a difference. It can be a lifeline for many of those affected by it. Madam President, I would like I think there is something else hiding behind your aversion to giving everyone the opportunity. I believe there is ideological resistance. We noticed that not least when the first thing you did when you took office as a government in 2006 was to remove the recruitment grant. That contribution was also directed at the low-skilled, but you removed it. You're doing exactly the same thing here again. This doesn't feel serious. Undeniably, we differ on the extent to which a start-up grant is needed. I am sorry about this. I do not think I have received an answer to the question of what offers you are making instead and what proposals you have. Are you in favour of the start-up grant being recruiting or not?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-732	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question, Pia Nilsson! We may have different views on how to design support, but it should in principle be designed according to the individual. Absolutely the Moderates want the low-skilled to have the opportunity to educate themselves. That is why we want study funding higher up the age bracket, i.e. that you should be able to train for most of your working life. We take responsibility for the individual by introducing more personalised support than support that does not work for a larger group.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-733	Madam President, I would like I want to continue in the same way that my Socialist colleague in the Committee on Education has just said. I simply think that the Moderates are getting away too easily on this issue. The Moderates talk about the work line and about giving all people equal opportunities to succeed in life. This is a very good example of when the Moderates once again run the upper class errands by, on the one hand, lowering taxes for the wealthy, on the other, removing a basic need and a help that we can give primarily to people who are far from the labour market. Why do the Moderates not think that even people who have been in unemployment for a while should have the chance to enter the labour market? What kind of hatred is there for these people who need the support that has been shown to work during the short time that there has been and where the search pressure increases? Why won't the Moderates give it? Another question to the Moderates is: In what way can the Moderates, without being ashamed, allow a racist party and tailor a draft budget to that party in order to get it through in the Swedish parliament when we are in a parliamentary position where the right parties are the smaller block and the red-green block is the largest block? Nevertheless, we agreed to produce a transitional budget with everyone precisely because we are in a special situation. In what way does it go with your values not only to let in but also – as I said in my previous speech – to give the key to the Swedish Democrats for the construction that you within the right and on the outer edge block have begun?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-737	Madam President, I would like Daniel Riazat asked several questions. When there is talk of reduced taxes and hatred of people, I certainly do not recognize myself. I see it as a financial responsibility. If we have the opportunity, we should be able to reduce taxes in order to give back money to our citizens that it is important to protect and help. So there is no hatred of the low-skilled, quite the contrary. That is why I am committed to the Education Committee. We want to help the low-skilled in many different ways so that they can enter the labour market. I spoke earlier about apprenticeship training, learning at work, different job matches, more help in school to be able to complete an education. Daniel Riazat came into this by working together. M and KD have a common budget that has been decided in the Riksdag. We see that there are very great concerns that we have to do something about. We can't wait for that. As has been said, we do not have a transitional holiday, but we have a parliament that must continue to work. There must be many major changes, and I do not want to wait for them. Therefore, M and KD have a common budget.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-739	Madam President, I would like I wish I had been able to thank you for the answer, but it was not an answer. The Moderates and also Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel Sandström have said when it comes to investments that do not produce enough results, you have to remove them. Then the question is: why is the RUT grant still there? Why do we still have profits in welfare? Why are there a number of different non-functioning measures which the bourgeoisie has been involved in pushing forward, but which you still want to keep? This will be contradictory, as Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel Sandström herself will certainly understand. On the one hand, free bus trips for young people are removed. When you sit in power for eight years you invest less in Komvux and basically crush Komvux. On the other hand, today we want to remove the start-up aid and then we say that we want to provide equal opportunities for all people. That doesn't make any sense.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-742	Madam President, I would like It's a matter of making ends meet. How does the start-up grant and the RUT grant relate to each other? From the beginning, it was a big reason that the RUT grant would do black jobs white. Then we probably have different opinions about what works and what doesn't work. I still think that systems that do not work should not remain. We need systems that work so that we can help those we are set to help. In this case, I am talking about helping citizens and students get into work. We will find the best conditions for these people. We should have a responsible economic policy for that, and I think we do. Then we may not share that view.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-744	Madam President, I would like Education and training are crucial for a good society and for people's personal development. Education and training must also meet the labour market's needs for a well-trained workforce. In Sweden, everyone should be able to realize their dreams as far as possible. We want everyone to have access to an education, and in Sweden we have a unique system in that it is free of charge to study. It's something to protect and be proud of. But study time is also associated with living expenses. Sweden also has a unique system to protect and be proud of. By reducing economic barriers, all citizens must have access to education regardless of the family situation they come from. Both the grant part and the loan part of the student grant are important elements for us to be able to conduct an effective education policy. All parts of the study grant, i.e. study grants during upper secondary school studies, grants for pupils with disabilities, apprenticeships and student funding with grant and loan part, will help to equalise the financial conditions of individuals and between groups in society. The possibility of further studies should not be limited to a certain age range in younger years. Instead, there must be opportunities to start completely new studies or to supplement previous education throughout life. This means that adult education should be well developed. In addition, this increases the ability to meet the multifaceted and often rapidly changing needs of skilled workers in the labour market. That is why, in this debate too, Madam President, I would like to stress the importance of giving universities of applied sciences and the planned regional professional qualifications the opportunity to expand. We also need to adapt student aid accordingly. It is of great importance that we continue to invest in training courses that lead to a great deal of work. Let me also say something about what has been debated here before. One of the changes we are now making is to remove the start-up grant. This support is in line with other more or less unsuccessful efforts to reduce unemployment with targeted financial contributions. The reception of study start-up support has been chilly, if not freezing. The money allocated, close to the billion, is estimated to be enough to support nearly 20,000 people a year. According to the study preceding the new program, as many as two of them, about 10,000, who returned to the school bench and passed their graduation, could get a job. The first academic year, as has already been mentioned, was just over 10 per cent – 2,600 people – who took advantage of the opportunity to complete their upper secondary school studies. This year, a few more people have signed off on the aid. For me, it becomes very clear that money is not the main motivation to start studying again. A more important factor in managing their studies is that there is a sincere motivation for study in the student, and above all that the education leads to jobs – not that it generates a high study grant in the first year. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal in the report on Category 15.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-753	Madam President, I would like I am genuinely upset by the contemptuous attitude of Jimmy Loord and the Christian Democrats towards people who are unable, by their own strength and motivation, to enter the education system. They're just doing it for the money. The Christian Democrats here show hypocrisy at a very high level. Jimmy Loord says that everyone should be given the opportunity to study. I want everyone on the same terms. In the next breath, he says: Yes, but you must have study motivation. Don't come here and think you're only gonna get paid. However, it is good that the Swedish people hear and understand what the Christian Democrats really think. If the start-up support is misdirected and therefore should be removed, what about phase 3, Jimmy Loord? It was the biggest failure ever, wasn't it? You didn't take that away. We had to do it. In phase 3, it was not even allowed to study for the people were, they said, too fragile. This is what the former Minister of Education said: this is about fragile people, and education is not right for them. Broken people are also educated and talented people. They too have the right to education. We later made a change. Of course, they should also be educated. And what about the YA jobs? We haven't removed them. But they became a Reinfeldt flop. It takes time for all efforts to give a full verdict. What suggestions does Jimmy Loord intend to put forward for people outside the traditional mirage to come in?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-760	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pia Nilsson, for your somewhat aggressive questions! I can only say that we have different views on what has an effect and what is important. As I mentioned in my speech, the start-up aid goes hand in hand with other more or less unsuccessful efforts to reduce unemployment. It seems that Pia Nilsson has a preference for maintaining such efforts. I think, however, that we have a financial responsibility to ensure that the money and resources we spend on education that hopefully will lead to work are effective. It has to yield results. Unfortunately, we have seen far too many projects, jobs and efforts that cause individuals to get caught up in labour market policies. I don't want to contribute to that.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-763	Madam President, I would like Together with the Moderates, you write that you intend to finance other priority initiatives for people who are far from the labour market. Would Jimmy Loord of the Christian Democrats like to explain who those efforts are? I've been searching with lights and lanterns, but I can't find them. Is this about removing the subsidy for extra services? Is this about removing modern standby jobs? What's this about? I can't find a single line of alternative study paths. Surely this is the kind of thing that needs to be put in place if you support the goal of student support being recruiting. Here again comes that contempt. Anyone – creti and pleti – should not study but only those with academic study motivation, as you even write in your committee motion. I'm amazed.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-766	Madam President, I would like Pia Nilsson speaks of contempt. Nothing can be more wrong. The starting point for both training and labour market measures must be that they are beneficial to the individual. Individuals need to be sidelined to ensure that studies and labour market measures lead to real jobs. With such a starting point and such a perspective, we are presenting our budget reservation. There is no reason to maintain efforts that do not produce results. It is not a question of contempt, but of taking sides with the individual and sometimes with the weak individual. We want to see apprenticeships, entry-level jobs and an investment in universities of applied sciences, as I mentioned earlier. It is also a question of regional professionalism. We have several initiatives here, Pia Nilsson.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-771	Madam President, I would like The debates taking place in this House these days are taking place in a very different political situation. It has never happened before that a new government still did not take office a hundred days after an election. It has not happened before that a parliamentary majority voted away a sitting prime minister without having a ready plan for what will happen later. And this is the first time that the Swedish Parliament has taken a position on a transitional budget. However, the fact that it has not happened before does not mean that it cannot happen again. How we act in the current situation may well create practices for the future. It has guided how we Social Democrats have chosen to handle this process both in the Government Office and here in Parliament. When the Prime Minister was voted out, we were given a transitional government that administers in accordance with the rules of the government. It cannot take political initiatives. It can't resign, and it can't announce new elections. On the other hand, it must submit a budget to Parliament within a fixed timeframe. Therefore, the principles of what a transitional budget should be, what it should contain and what it should not contain were negotiated between most of the parliamentary parties. The budget proposal that was then presented followed the agreed principles and was therefore not a party political product but a document that would give a future government the very best conditions for presenting an amending budget with a clear political orientation. Our view is that it should be in everyone's interest to put in place a practice whereby a transitional budget is accepted by Parliament and that a incoming government thus has the decisive influence on the state budget. It is therefore regrettable that other parties chose to raise their own budget movements and then vote them through in this House, in this very unusual situation. It is, of course, absolutely true that reforms are needed, but the nature of a party movement means that this is not the best form of pushing forward new policies, as has been demonstrated in the last few weeks with all due clarity. The confused process we have now witnessed hardly lives up to the epithet as responsible or sober. I very much hope that it will not be elevated to practice. Both citizens and authorities have the right to expect more than this from parliamentary parties. Madam President, I would like Let me conclude by saying a few words about Category 13. In the election movement, the Moderates launched a new slogan: equal for all. Now, three months after the elections, the same party is opting in the Committee on Employment and several other committees for a sharp cut in what is intended precisely to make conditions more equal for all. The delegation against segregation and the special money for municipalities for this purpose provide the conditions for carrying out a concerted and long-term work to counter one of the greatest social problems of our time, namely segregation. Early efforts for young people, security work in neighbourhoods, cooperation to get more people into work and much more can reverse the trend. It is regrettable that the Moderates give priority to tax cuts over measures against segregation. Gender equality work in Sweden needs to be strengthened. Last year, a new authority finally started to ensure that this happens. Of course, the agency should not take over all gender equality work from all other actors – quite the opposite. One of the most important tasks given to the agency was to ensure that others do what they are supposed to do, to support and to push ahead. To close the Equality Agency without even implying where the work against trafficking in human beings or men's violence against women or the work done to support the authorities' gender equality work should be done instead is not only financially irresponsible. This shows a deep lack of interest in gender equality work and also a lack of respect for the skills gathered in the agency. We Social Democrats have chosen not to present our policy in this area in the form of a motion, because we believe that the transitional budget should have been voted through. At a later stage, of course, we will come back – hopefully in the form of a budget bill, otherwise in the form of a party movement – and explain our political visions and proposals for gender equality and the establishment of newcomers. As we do not support the Framework Decision, we abstain from taking part in the decision on the distribution of appropriations in the area of expenditure and refer to the special opinion of the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party in committee. On the other hand, we Social Democrats will continue to work towards changing the deeply unfortunate decision to close the Equality Agency.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-783	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Swedish Democrats' reservation to be approved. Madam President, I would like Implementing the enormous migration of asylum and family members to Sweden and, in parallel, building up a large integration policy complex in order to try in different ways to reduce the problems created by the large immigration has been the major political project of the 21st century in Sweden. And it has worked extremely badly. The total cost of all of this is hardly open to speculation, but only in the area of expenditure that we are discussing today has the cost since 2000 been more than 150 billion. That corresponds to a lot of health professionals, Madam President. There are many nurses who could help reduce care queues. 150 billion could make a big difference for the poorest pensioners, or why not for the disabled children for whom the previous government withdrew assistance. That is a lot of money, which ordinary hardworking taxpayers have paid in. We are aware of the results of this. We know what we have got for this money. We've got insecurity. We have had insecurity in Sweden that is greater than it has ever been in modern times. For the last seven eight years, we've had more than 1,000 shootings. We've had 116 shell attacks. The number of so - called exclusion areas continues to grow, and today over half a million people live there. If one were to merge all these alienation areas and make them an area, it would be as big as Sweden's second largest city. Madam President, I would like Because of the immigration and integration policies of the old parties, Sweden has become a divided country. It has become a country of segregation, mistrust, crime and violence. It's not a small achievement. It must nevertheless be admitted that it has been an effective policy. I remember a time, not too long ago, when Sweden was an example in the world. The country has been fundamentally changed, from being one of the world's safest countries with a strong community to becoming an example to the outside world. In a recent report from the European Commission, Sweden was identified as one of Europe's most dangerous countries in terms of crime and violence. Madam President, I would like Immigration and integration policy is the largest political fiasco that Sweden has experienced since the Vasa ship sank outside here almost 400 years ago. As if it were not enough for the old parties to be responsible for this, Madam President, the same old parties are coming here again today and arguing for us to continue with this. We want to continue with the same old policy. The old parties think that we should continue to have Europe's largest asylum and family migration. We will continue to spend billions on even larger and more comprehensive integration projects. Madam President, I would like Sometimes it is claimed that Albert Einstein should have said that madness is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a new result. Sometimes I get the feeling that maybe I understand what he meant. Another classic quote that comes to me when I think about this is something that the old Social Democrat Gustav Möller said. He said that every nicked crown of treasure is a theft from the people. I wonder if Möller would not consider the money that goes to these integration projects to be just misplaced tax crowns. I wonder what he would call those responsible for that theft. Madam President, I would like By reducing immigration to Sweden, the Swedish Democrats could save no less than 7 billion on this expenditure area alone next year. If we add to the other areas of expenditure affected by immigration, we could save several more billions. It is money that we would use to help more people get into work. It is money that we would use to strengthen security and community in our country. We would see to it that we have more policemen in the streets and squares and more health workers, who can reduce care queues. We would lower the tax on small businesses and on those who have the worst. Perhaps we should strengthen, not least, the economic situation of Sweden's poorest pensioners. Among other things, we would do that. By reducing immigration and by making demands for those who have come to Sweden to adapt to Swedish society, we will reduce the problems caused by the immigration and integration policies of the old parties. It is a way for us to start work on rebuilding Sweden into a cohesive country again. In order for more people to come to work, we would like to introduce real apprenticeships. This is something that has worked well historically. It is also something that has worked well in modern times, not least in Germany, and we believe that it could make it easier for newcomers, young people and also people who are long-term unemployed to enter the labour market. Madam President, I would like I would also like to mention something about all the children who grow up in the alienation areas created by the old parties. It is because, unfortunately, the children who are born and raised there have significantly worse chances statistically of succeeding in what they want to succeed in life. They are also much more likely to end up in crime, unemployment, abuse and other forms of exclusion. Madam President, I would like These children have not chosen where to be born. They are not responsible for the development of society or for the problems we are talking about here today. For us to be able to break out of exclusion and put things right in the long term, we will need to invest more in these children. Therefore, we are now pleased to see that our proposal for compulsory preschools in some of these areas has a certain impact. We will be able to see it in the next few years. This is important, because many of these children grow up in an environment where you have quite little contact with Swedish society. Many times parents, neighbors, and relatives may not speak the language very well. In many cases, almost every classmate, and perhaps even the staff of school and recreation centres, has a foreign background. When these children go out into adulthood and perhaps seek a job or an education, the Swedish majority society risks to appear unfamiliar to them. Cultural clashes and misunderstandings can arise that lead to different kinds of setbacks, which can lead to frustration and hopelessness and ultimately to a feeling of being different and not fit in. The hope is that the compulsory preschool will facilitate a little by acting as a window into Swedish society. The focus should be on language learning so that when this child then grows up and is going out into society, hopefully neither the Swedish language nor the Swedish culture will later appear to be something foreign, but on the contrary as something that feels familiar from childhood. The hope is that this will reduce friction and the problems that may arise and instead make it a little easier for children who grow up in alienation areas to become part of Swedish society. We also believe that this is something that, by showing an alternative, could help not least the girls who grow up in contexts where, for example, honorary culture prevails. It can strengthen them and make them more prone and comfortable to become part of Swedish society and perhaps seek help to the extent necessary. Madam President, I would like To succeed in reversing the development that the old parties have made in the area of immigration and integration and restoring security, cohesion and community in our Sweden is the big challenge for my generation of politicians. It's no small task. I cannot promise it will be a one-way journey, and I cannot promise it will be quick. But one thing I actually feel quite certain about, not least when I look at this congregation and think about what it has done, and that is that we will succeed far better than you have done.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-804	Madam President, I would like When it comes to the Swedish Democrats and their view of integration, I find it very strange when Henrik Vinge is in the speaker's chair talking about adaptation to Swedish society. Those who come here must embrace Swedish culture, learn Swedish and support their own livelihood," he says. I agree, but what I do not understand is that you both want the cake and eat it. You cannot demand all this from those who come to Sweden without being prepared, as politicians, if you want to take responsibility for integration, to also take the necessary measures for each individual's ability to establish themselves in Swedish society and in the labour market. Your policy means incredibly large reductions both on the start-up side and on the funds and resources that municipalities that receive very many new arrivals need. You come up with your proposals and how you want to allocate the funds not to cope with the establishment that Henrik Vinge wants to achieve, while at the same time he wants to suspend all these support efforts. My question is: how will those who come here be able to adapt to everything that Henrik Vinge and the Swedish Democrats want you to do when you are not prepared to take responsibility politically and financially and allocate resources accordingly?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-808	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the good questions, Gulan Avci! First of all, it is clear that the huge savings we are making are being made in reducing immigration with our policies. There are simply fewer people coming here and the costs are reduced for that reason. Then we have chosen to try in different ways to streamline and invest resources on the measures that work and not just on what sounds good in the form of different types of symbolism and signal policies in the area of integration policy. What actually works is, of course, language learning, and there we are also investing extra money. It is not precisely in Category 13, but in the field of education and also in the field of culture. There we look at, for example, increased civic education for those who have come to Sweden so that in different ways you can get an introduction and a way to understand and learn the language and how Swedish society works. That's where we invest more than the government does. Other important things, for example, are getting to work. There we are looking, as I mentioned, at apprenticeships, which are a way of lowering the thresholds for entering the labour market. This will not only make it easier for newcomers but also for Swedish young people and the long-term unemployed. What goes like a red thread through our way of looking at it is that we should not have separate solutions where you in different ways try to flip out something that should apply to immigrants and something else that should apply to Swedes. It is better that we try to find solutions that are general and are better for everyone. Apprenticeships, for example, are such a solution. So we have a large number of such initiatives that actually work. But as I said, the big difference is that we don't want to spend money on things that sound good but that don't have any effect. This is perhaps the big difference between the Swedish Democrats and the other parties in this area.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-814	Madam President, I would like When you are newcomers in Sweden you cannot be expected to take responsibility for your own establishment and integration. It must be specifically targeted for this particular group. I agree that of course we must not miss all the other groups, such as young people with low education, people with disabilities and those who are generally far from the labour market. For them, we must also take steps to enable them to enter the labour market. But that was not my question. I think it is often very black or white on the part of the Swedish Democrats when you talk about the integration failures. I agree that the established parties have not succeeded. We have a huge alienation that strikes very hard not least on women's freedom and the right to live a life like everyone else. But can Henrik Vinge at least admit that there are tens of thousands of companies in Sweden run by immigrants and that over 700 000 people every day go to work as you and I and contribute to Swedish society?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-817	Madam President, I would like I am the first to admit that there are a lot of people who have come here to Sweden and who contribute to the labour market and in a lot of other ways. Today it is sometimes painted as if the gap in Sweden is between Swedes and immigrants in general, that the gaps would depend on people's background. Our objective is that it should not be so. Our goal is that it should not primarily be about where you were born, what your background is or what you look like. The gap in Sweden should not go between who was born here and not but between those who are constructive and want to contribute to a better Sweden and those who are destructive and destroy. The gap should go between those who build the cars and those who burn the cars. Then I think you can make demands. You can demand that those who come here take a personal responsibility to adapt to Swedish society and to comply with the laws and regulations that apply here. I definitely think you can do that. We will help with language teaching, social education and so on, but the ultimate responsibility is in fact always with the individual.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-820	I would like to draw Members' attention to the fact that it is free to reply only in the first round. Serkan Köse and Hanif Bali who have requested a reply do not have the opportunity to reply now.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-821	Madam President, I would like I have two questions for Henrik Vinge. My first question: when you generously distribute all these billions, these not only tens but hundreds of billions that you are going to save, how is it that in this area of expenditure and in what we are going to debate tomorrow you have such a notorious inability to keep track of the money? When you look in your footnotes and RUT missions you find that it is not at all clear where they go, the people you remove from the actions you want to save on. Unlike all other parties, you believe that they can disappear into thin air. Time and again there are many billions missing from your budgets. My second question has to do with the rhetorical finery that comes here. First, you paint immigration as the mother at all costs and all the problems. You say in practice that those who come from war and persecution, you want to send them home. You want to separate children from their parents and parents from their children. Then – a little generously – you come with compassion in the form of integration preschool and apprenticeship, all that we have come up with, and suddenly call it your idea. What's it gonna be? Are those who come here our future nurses, our future entrepreneurs? Or future – it is actually hundreds of thousands, not tens of thousands, that have started companies in Sweden and hired people. Do you, Henrik Vinge, want integration to succeed? Excuse me, the question is: Do you think integration will succeed, or do you think deep down not? How is it– can integration succeed, or can it not? What's it gonna be?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-825	Madam President, I would like I think it can be said that as long as the Center Party and the other old parties have a great influence on integration policy, it will not succeed. I think that conclusion can be drawn because you have had that influence for a number of decades. This type of integration policy has been pursued. Every action from within and out has been tried several times over, but it does not succeed. It's just getting worse. Segregation is increasing, crime is increasing, recruitment to the population is increasing – all kinds of problems arising from segregation, exclusion and divisions are increasing in Sweden. Should one merge all today's exclusion areas, it would be Sweden's largest city. This is a responsibility of the Center Party, so I have no confidence in your integration policy. Absolutely not. I believe that if we are to succeed in recreating community and security in Sweden, we will need a new hand in this, one that is to make demands. We must dare to do so. We must dare to make demands that those who come here will adapt to Swedish society, learn Swedish and try in different ways to become a constructive part of Sweden. Historically, these demands have been far too poor to make. We must also carry out the measures that are effective. We must stop using symbolic measures and waste money on things that may sound good but have no effect. We need to look at what actually works. If such measures were to be looked at, that is, if the Swedish Democrats were to have a greater influence on this, perhaps we would succeed better. I think so. I also believe that we must dare to talk about the role of culture. The fact that you become part of Swedish society, not only through work or other things, but by adopting our way of life here in different ways, is important in itself. Above all, it is important that you let your children do so if they are born and raised here so that you do not contribute to the parallel societies and structures where people grow up and feel alienation from the Swedish majority society. That is something we must dare to talk about. Unfortunately, we are still quite alone in having the courage to talk about the cultural aspect of integration.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-829	Madam President, I would like I note that Henrik Vinge did not answer the questions at all. The fact that you as a Swedish Democrat do not have confidence in our migration policy does not surprise me, Henrik Vinge. I don't have any illusions about that. Moreover, we are not responsible for the failure of labour market policy or for the failure of justice policy. We have indeed proposed reforms in these areas, and I will come back to that later. The crucial thing here is that you haven't answered any of my two questions. Where's all the tens of billions? You just make people disappear in your calculations. You have not answered the second question straight and clear either. Do you think, Henrik Vinge, that migration can succeed if we do as in Canada, Germany and Denmark – countries that have managed to do the right things? Or don't you think? Don't scratch on me all the failures! There are things we want to change. But answer the question yourself! Do you think integration can succeed at all?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-833	Madam President, I would like I may have to encourage Martin Ådahl to listen a little better. My answer to the question is that I do not believe that we can succeed if we continue on the same old track as before, because it has clearly not worked for a number of decades. The Center Party is now trying to suggest that there should be no responsibility in this. You were in government for eight years while the number of exclusion areas just increased, and what you want to do now is change some small number in the margin. What you need to do if you want to deal with this is to completely change course. We must completely change course. We need to reduce asylum and family migration to Sweden, and we need to start making demands in a completely different way on those who come here. That's not where the Center Party is prepared to go. Should we move in a more Swedish-democratic direction, I think there is a chance to reverse developments. That's the answer to the question. But with your policy, I am convinced that that is not possible. I just want to mention something about the budget, which Mr Ådahl is talking about. That, of course, is not true. I don't really know what to answer that. It's made up by Martin Ådahl. I can't answer any more than that.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-837	I would like to draw your attention, for the sake of the House, to the fact that we are not all using your form, but for the ‐ and last names in our speeches or lines.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-838	Madam President, I would like Before I talk a little about integration, let me say that we have another major topic in this debate: equality. My party colleague Annika Qarlsson will talk about that later. This if you wonder why it does not come up here at the beginning. Integration will also be mentioned by my colleague, Alireza Akhondi. I myself thought I'd start in real life with a completely true story. In the autumn of 2015, Bashar Mustafa came from the Iraq of the Civil War to Mora, more specifically to Gesunda, where there is an asylum accommodation. He was a young man among many others who came to Sweden that autumn. But Bashars's fate took a different turn. The company Morakniv offered him a hockey game – which as a plaything I can regret, but still. Bashar and his friend Hayder Alhasan got the chance to go to a hockey game, and then Morakniv offered practice at the company. They worked hard. They asked a lot, and they learned a lot. After a month Bashar came to his internship manager with an export plan. This is what Bashar says in an interview.I come from Iraq and have travelled in many neighbouring countries there, but had never seen a Mora knife. I wondered why. So I started reading about the company, and going through Morakniv's store, in Arabic. I discovered that there was a large audience who knew about Mora knife, but who doesn't know where to buy the knives. ..................................................... Bashar started making calls in Arabic – he was not allowed to travel because he did not have a residence permit. In just nine months he had fivefold doubled exports to the Middle East and North Africa. Today it has increased by 1 300 percent, from just half a million to over 7 million. Bashar's got a job. Hayder and his friend got a job. A lot more people at Morakniv have got jobs. Apprenticeship, hard work, Swedish at work, good business environment, success. I guess a lot of people are wondering if this is really possible. Once again, is integration possible? Of those who listen to me now, I think some people think that this is a nice story, but that it is an exception that new arrivals get jobs in growing small businesses. Integration cannot succeed. That's it. Unfortunately, SD is right in some sense. Integration in Sweden suffers from the tyranny of low expectations. Instead of meeting people with expectations of working hard, doing well, studying late evenings and early mornings and struggling in the sweat of their face, the state has often met those who struggled to come here with waiting, idleness, poor Swedish education and finally measures, with a sigh and a pat on their shoulders. The refugee children, placed side by side by fate with classmates whose unusual language they do not know, have often been confronted with lack of planning and abandonment. Not everyone who wanted to fight was allowed to fight. Now it has to be said that the shortcomings of the state around our country have often been compensated by amazing individuals: football trainers, teachers who read homework late in the evenings, families who have handed out bed support to children who have not had any on the excursion – all those whom we call passionates and whom we politicians call civil society. They must receive more money because every penny to them gives so much more than the bureaucracy gives. But they alone cannot fix what has failed in our integration and reception. We in the Center Party want a new start for integration in Sweden. And it cannot be done with a budget adopted by Parliament without even having a government. That is why we will not take part in the decision; our budget motion has fallen. This can only be done long-term, powerful and for real. But back to Bashar and the chance he got. We need to fix the reception. From the first day we need intensive language teaching, social orientation and professional practice – not a year of waiting and then years of establishment. An intensive year of integration is needed, starting immediately when you arrive, with high expectations, high demands and long hours. You do your duty, and then you get the chance to a job and can become a part of Sweden. But if we are to get to the root of the problems, we must also get to the structures. Many may wonder why during this strange autumn the Center Party has been nagging so much about structural reforms. That is because this is the essence of everything. These are the system errors that have affected all of us for decades and have placed, above all, those which are weakest in the back of the job queue and the housing queue. It is a labour market that has pushed the weakest out of the first job and stopped small businesses from hiring them. Today, when we have passed the peak of the boom, three quarters of all unemployed, 259 000 people, are in a vulnerable position. Half of the unemployed, 197 000 people, are now born abroad. Many children do not see their parents go to work in the morning. We call it a success and a success when half of those who have come here get jobs after three years, usually in government measures. We have to raise expectations! We need to reduce the tax burden so that small businesses have a chance to employ precisely those who are most vulnerable. We must recreate those first jobs, those of Germany, Denmark and the Netherlands, which start with a little lower pay. Call it entry, apprenticeship or simple jobs – even if they're never really simple except on paper. But people get a chance. We need to make the free labour market more flexible so that we dare to change jobs more often and more people get the chance to get in. Basically, we need to redo the Public Employment Service, which is wasting tens of billions of dollars the most vulnerable need, and not rewarding waste. Instead, we have to reward those independent, private or non-profit players who get results. We cannot continue to send new arrivals to SFI, where not even half of them learn Swedish. There too we have to pay for results and quality. Learn no Swedish in the course should anyone who holds the teaching receive no more money. But those who manage to advance those who take the course in language and development will be rewarded and able to expand. All academics who have come to Sweden need to be able to quickly complete their grades and fill the countless holes in business and welfare, which are screaming for engineers, doctors and nurses – speaking about what we need in Sweden in the future. Finally, we must give hope back to the neighbourhoods and suburbs that today are never allowed to take off but are stuck in insecurity, with small and large crimes in everyday life, substandard schools and soulless urban planning, where many people get stuck in a second-class society and many are fighting for a better life but never get the chance. We have to take over and turn schools, break the monotony of rental lines and ensure that the police are present all the time and maintain the order required until the gangs give way. We must turn these areas around and remove them from the police list, as the Center Party has done in Falkenberg with the first area that left the police list. In short, we must show that it is possible. We have to give hope back. Anyone, Madam President, who believes in an open, internationalist, humanistic, dynamic Sweden and liberal values of human freedom and does not shrink from the aggressive nationalism and xenophobia that are growing in our society, but, in short, believes in everything that has made Sweden big, rich and successful, must also be able to show how integration can succeed and that integration can succeed and give people the dream back, which Bashar Mustafa got on Morakniv. If we succeed in this, we will not be rid of xenophobia, but we will raise expectations. And that, Madam President, is possible.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-857	Madam President, I would like This was the first time that a transitional government submitted a budget proposal to the Riksdag. The Government, the Riksdag and the Budget Act contain provisions on the budget bill and its content. However, there is no specific regulation on the form of a budget proposal submitted by a transitional government. In a memorandum from the Council of State Committee, certain guidelines had been issued for the practical work of the Government Office during a transitional government period. The Constitutional Committee, when examining the powers of a transitional government, has referred to these guidelines. According to the guidelines, a transitional government should only decide on current or urgent matters. It also states that a transitional government should not present proposals that are politically controversial or have a clear party political orientation. With regard in particular to a budget proposal submitted by a transitional government, it is stated that it should not contain proposals that have a clear party policy orientation. It follows from the form of government that the last budget decided will continue to apply in the event that the Riksdag has not decided on a new budget. In developing this bill, the Government has therefore assessed that the 2019 budget should be drawn up on the basis of the 2018 budget, pending the entry into force of a new government and able to submit the proposals for changes resulting from its political orientation. Taking this into account, specific principles have been developed for the formulation of this proposal. The principles have been developed following contacts with representatives of the government parties and the Left Party as well as the Moderates, the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals. Everyone seemed to agree. Madam President, I would like I cannot be the only one who has friends, voters and neighbors who wonder what is happening in these famous corridors. What Is the Answer? How do you respond? That none of this has happened before and that we actually do not know what happens next time or the next day? Would it be reasonable to form a government first and then pursue its economic policy and present a budget? But, Madam President, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats had other ideas. Together with the Swedish Democrats, they wanted to create some chaos. We see a sacred Trinity taking shape – a trinity of log-conservative form, which thinks that gender equality has gone a little too far. Of course, it is entirely democratic to push through the darkest budget we have seen in a long time, but is it decent? Is it well thought out? Yes, unlike what many others say, I actually think it is very well thought out. I believe that the plan is to pursue a backward policy and make a real ideological turn far to the right. It is a high game, but with the Liberals and the Centres in the ligaments we now see a journey back in time, to values and suggestions that we thought we had left behind. It is very clear what kind of reforms and what policies we have to expect when the right-wing conservatives are allowed to decide and adapt to and normalize the right-wing extremes. It is also worryingly simple. Madam President, I would like Over 27 000 people have signed name lists in protest against the closure of the Equality Agency. The decision of the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats to close the Equality Agency is a disaster for Sweden's entire gender equality policy and the collective work against men's violence. It is the gender equality agency that is responsible for the government's ten-year national strategy to stop men's many forms of violence against women and children. With the Gender Equality Agency, we have been given a management authority with the task of monitoring and analysing developments and working with implementation and coordination with different actors. It is unreasonable and irresponsible to close down its managing authority for gender equality policy without having a plan for how and where the work should take place instead. The Moderates have not explained what will happen to ongoing projects within the Equality Agency. Reference has been made to the fact that there are other authorities that can work on this issue, but nothing has been put into practice. Madam President, I would like In a democracy, gender equality and inclusion are the foundations. Combating injustice and segregation should be in the best interests of a country. But this is not the view of the Conservative Trinity, which, apart from closing down the Equality Authority, also wants to close the Delegation against segregation. The abolition of support for socio-economically vulnerable areas, designed to strengthen municipalities' own long-term work, is irresponsible. The closure of the Delegation against segregation sends out signals that the Moderates and Christian Democrats, together with the Swedish Democrats, do not think that segregation is a problem that must be understood or countered. The Liberals state in their special opinion that they do not agree with the committee's proposal to close the Equality Agency. They further state that they are deeply concerned about what will happen to all the assignments gathered in the agency. But what is that concern worth more than the paper it stands on? Nor does the Center Party propose a breakdown of appropriations in Category 13 other than the Government. Liberals and center parties, you can't stand by and watch things happen while complaining! Liberals are very good at beating their chests and describing themselves as an equalizer. And I read in a debate article in Aftonbladet today that the Liberals are going to work further to change the deeply unfortunate parliamentary decision on closure. I'd like to know how. After all, you have already released the budget framework. These are the consequences of releasing a dark blue conservative budget.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-874	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that we will not be taking part in the decision and would like to refer to our particular opinion. On Monday it was 100 years since universal and equal voting rights were introduced for men and women. Sweden has been an example in terms of gender equality over the past 100 years. We can boast of an employment rate for women that few other countries have. But behind the figures is another reality. This applies not least to women born outside Europe. The situation for them is alarming. Nearly 30% of these women aged 20 to 64 are outside the labour market. Sweden is facing a coming recession. Those most affected are often women born outside Europe, newly arrived, young people with low education, people with disabilities and, in general, those who are farthest away from the labour market. Nevertheless, the outgoing government over the last four years has not equipped those who will have the toughest when the recession is a fact. The biggest integration effort of the Social Democrats has been additional services – jobs that are 100% subsidised by the state. These are covert contributions that you pretend to be real jobs. Madam President, I would like We Liberals want all people to be able to create a life in our society. But then another policy is needed. We need an integration policy that places high demands on the individual and places a great responsibility on us politicians to give people the right tools to be established. Major efforts are needed for those furthest away from the labour market. That is why we Liberals have set aside more than half a billion in our budget for 5 000 new jobs to be created, which is a targeted effort on foreign-born women and their job creation. Integration was one of our most important electoral issues, but already in 2002 we launched an integration policy for empowerment, work and independence. It was a policy that made up for the long-standing policy of the S ocial democrats. Then, as now, language has played a central role in our integration policy. That language is power, I think, can all attest to being in a country where you can't make yourself understood. Language is the ticket into society. Being able to speak Swedish means that you as an adult can participate in society, go to the doctor on your own or just do a simple matter without anyone else, not infrequently a child, having to be an interpreter. Many foreign-born women who come from communities with honorary culture are completely dependent on their husbands. Better knowledge of Swedish can break their isolation and pave the way for a life of freedom. We Liberals want to increase both the quality and the demands of SFI education. In order to increase knowledge in Swedish, it is not enough just to participate in the teaching, but also to demand results. We want to introduce a contro ll station after 52 weeks of sfi studies. If knowledge goals are not achieved, traineeships or jobs must be an alternative instead of spending more hours with studies that do not lead anywhere. Madam President, I would like I know how difficult it can be to learn a new language when you come as an adult to a new country. I have experienced it myself when my parents had to make the tough trip. For children it is easier, but despite this, there are too many children who lack the knowledge of Swedish that they need because many do not speak Swedish at home. Then preschool becomes even more important for these children's learning and language development. Therefore, we liberals want to introduce a compulsory language preschool for all newly arrived children and children of newly arrived immigrants with a focus on training in the Swedish language. For many newcomers, citizenship is the end of the integration process. Seeking citizenship is the ultimate proof that one wants to build one's future here and be part of the Community. That is why we Liberals want it to be mandatory to take a language and social test that shows that they have sufficient knowledge to participate in Swedish society. For us liberals, the demand is to enhance the importance of citizenship and to put pride in being a part of Swedish society. I note in the debate today that we seem to be relatively alone in actively pursuing this demand as an important measure of integration. Successful integration is one of the keys to Sweden's future. Nevertheless, I have not heard any concrete political proposals in this debate so far. I had a change of line with Henrik Vinge. The Swedish democrats, who have the most long-standing demands that new arrivals have to adapt to Swedish society, are at the same time the party that allocates the least resources for this to be possible. According to the Swedish Democrats, all labour market programmes are to be abolished and all resources for the integration of newcomers are to be reduced. Building one's policy on having the cake and eating it at the same time is not a serious way of solving social problems. Henrik Vinge said earlier in the debate that it is only his party who dares to talk about culture. No, I disagree with you on that, Henrik Vinge. It is just to google what I and many other liberals have said in the debate, not least when it comes to the question of how to combat honour-related violence and repression. I have fought for Sweden to pay attention to women born abroad for a large part of my political commitment. I grew up in the suburbs myself. I've seen how the integration failures have hit women the hardest. As I grew up, I rarely saw the feminist movement raise their voices for the immigrant women or for the girls who lived with honorary oppression. For me, it is important not just to talk about the support that women in the suburbs need. We're going to affirm the amazing strength and innate power that they have. The journey that many women have made to come to Sweden shows how incredibly driven these people have. But in order for women to really get the chance, we need to be clear that the view of equality and freedom that applies in Sweden should also apply to them. Not least, it is important that it applies to those women who today live in freedom, in invisibility and in an exclusion that makes Swedish equality cannot be taken seriously as it is not a privilege for all women in this country. During the asylum period, mandatory public information is needed that makes it clear that women and men have the same rights and obligations in Sweden. Women's right to decide their own lives is not negotiable. Madam President, I would like There is another reason why it is important to highlight women: they are the key to the future of the next generation. Research shows that children of newly arrived women who work succeed better in school and are easier to integrate into Swedish society. If we invest in women, children can have the opportunity for a better future. It's a conviction I'll never give up. For the truth is that if we fail, the next generation of children and young people will inherit the alienation of their parents. Parallel communities will expand and crime will increase even more. Failure to integrate is simply not an option. The challenges are great, but so are the opportunities. The vast majority of those who have come to Sweden want to contribute. To reverse the trend requires political will and action in Sweden. Sweden deserves an integration policy worthy of the name so that we 100 years after women got the right to vote can also say that equality applies equally to all women in Sweden, no matter where you come from and who you are. The most important thing is where you're going.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-893	Madam President, I would like More women are victims of human trafficking than before. Women's bodies are more widely used for trafficking for sexual purposes than before. And today, the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats are dismantling the coordination against human trafficking. Madam President, I would like Men's violence against women continues to increase. Today, the same parties are dismantling the preventive work carried out at the Equality Agency against men's violence against women. Madam President, I would like We're getting alarm reports that honor-related violence is on the increase. Children are taken abroad for marriage and genital mutilation. Men control their daughters and sisters. The gender equality agency's work on strategies to influence men who oppress in the name of honour is today interrupted by the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. It is a shame that Sweden is now joining the countries that allow politics to be dictated by right-wing populist and anti-feminist symbolism politics. The victims are women and girls in our country. The signal echoes internationally. Sweden, which has had the world's first feminist government during the past four years, is now backing back the work against violence against women for decades. What remains is the reactive and in itself very important work that women's shelters, the National Centre for Women's Peace and others have done. But what is being deleted is the work that we have begun with the goal that the battle should not be dealt and the rape should not be committed. 31 804 people have appealed to this House not to close down the Equality Authority. Professors, experts, social secretaries and others have written to us and warned of the consequences of the rapid resolution that is now at hand. The words of Moderates and Christian Democrats just a few years ago stood here saying that important activities would be put at risk by the establishment of the Equality Authority were empty. The Moderates and Christian Democrats never cared about the work against men's violence against women, against honour-related violence and oppression, for gender mainstreaming and against prostitution and human trafficking that they said they were protecting. The truth is that they want to dismantle the state's gender equality policy – point. In interviews we have heard how Jessica Polfjärd from the Moderates has talked about that the gender equality work will be carried out by many authorities. What she has not understood, or does not pretend to understand, is that the role of the Equality Authority is to support all other authorities' work on gender mainstreaming. It is the Gender Equality Agency that has this task today, which collects knowledge, disseminates knowledge, advises, provides support and monitors and ensures that we have an impact in the gender equality work and that we get a lot of gender equality for the money. Investigation after investigation has shown that a single body is needed to do this work. These are investigations set up by the bourgeois government, or by the Liberals, perhaps we should say. It honours you in the Liberals that you stand up for feminist equality policy. However, I regret that you still let through the budget which now makes this a fact. Madam President, I would like Today, the report from the Swedish National Audit Office that I have in my hand was in my mail box – the irony of fate, one might say. It is called Gender mainstreaming of integration policy – an unexploited tool. Today's decision means one thing, namely that it will continue to be just an unused tool. It is gender mainstreaming that moves on the foot today, along with the prevention of violence in close relationships, men's violence against women and honour-related violence and oppression. This includes the work against genital mutilation that the agency has just begun, with visits to Somaliland, which is one of the places where many girls are grafted. Madam President, I would like I deeply regret this dark day. I also regret that Sweden has lost a government-supporting party. The Moderates approach the Swedish Democrats not only in substance politics, by abolishing the right of asylum, slaughtering environmental and climate policy and now also abolishing gender equality policy; the Moderates are also approaching the Swedish Democrats in the populist way they conduct their policies. Not only have we been asked to safeguard the important activities of the Equality Agency, but we have also learned that the 41 million left for decommissioning is not even enough. The Moderates have turned a deaf ear. This is symbolic politics that goes against what the Moderates have previously said they stand for. It's financially irresponsible. Regardless of what one thinks in substance about the organisation of gender equality policy, it is economically irresponsible to rapidly phase out the agency without an impact assessment and without a plan for how the important activities should be taken care of. To be honest, you don't seem to care in the least. Perhaps this is what you gave the Swedish Democrats to support your budget.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-905	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for approval of the proposal as a whole. Last autumn a wind swept from continent to continent, from country to country and from industry to industry, with the message: . Women came forward and spoke about their experiences of harassment – disgusting abuse suffered by colleagues, foreign men and family members. There were completely different industries and countries, but the stories from the women were the same: they have been subjected to unwanted advances, and they have lived with memories of abuse throughout their lives. Many times it has also led to mental illness, anxiety and self-harm. All these stories and testimonies created a debate. We debated them in this House, and we debated them in society. I am pleased that this led to gender equality being debated and discussed in Sweden. In fact, I do not think that politics would have been able to draw the same attention to these important issues. In a world where our young people interact with each other daily on social media, it is important that we prevent and talk about what is acceptable, what is violations and what is harassment. We need to talk about all interactions based on mutual respect. If you can't play by those rules, there will be consequences. The family and school have an important assignment when it comes to talking about values – how we relate to each other, how we accept each other's differences and how we view each other. We politicians can't do everything. I don't think that here, no matter how much we could work on these issues, we can change all attitudes in society. That's why we need to be more people who talk about values and attitudes and talk about all the values of equality. Women's vulnerability has increased in recent years. Sexual crimes have increased sharply in recent years, and that is alarming. We can read that serious sexual abuse is not investigated because the police do not have time. How is that possible? In one of the world's most equal countries, police do not have time to give priority to this type of crime. It's a gender equality issue. It is the government that is responsible for this, and it is it that is ultimately responsible. I think you should be self-critical there. The Moderates have proposed a broad action programme. Among other things, we have proposed a tightening up of the penalties for rape. The punishment for rape is too mild, and often the courts judge the lower part of the penalty scale. This is also an area where, in fact, little has been done in 50 years since the introduction of the Criminal Code. This can also be considered from the perspective of gender equality. There is also reason to look harder at certain forms of sexual harassment that do not reach up to what constitutes rape. Therefore, a new classification with a higher penalty scale for sexual harassment should be introduced. The damage to the victim of rape and other sexual crimes must be increased. I think that is the core task of politics in terms of what we can decide on. Furthermore, the Moderates and Christian Democrats increase the resources to the police. We think it is the responsibility of every police region to have special groups that specialize in sexual crimes. We know that many of the abuses have been committed by colleagues in the workplace. It is therefore important that all employers make it clear that violations are not permitted and establish procedures to deal with them. There must be clear rules for that. These are some examples of what politics can do. We know that there are also others who are working on this issue – in respect of honour-related violence, in relation to men's violence against women and in relation to children who have been subjected to violence or witnessed violence – and they are a major and important player in this. They also have confidence in those who have been affected. However, there is a large group of people, especially women and girls, who would never dare to sign the hashtag metoo – who could never raise their hands and say that they have been abused. There are many women living in Sweden who cannot take part in gender equality at all. They see a gender equality way over there that's not theirs. What stands in the way is what is called honor. It is about patriarchal structures that have women's sexuality at the centre and where the family capital is the chastity of women and girls. It is about men who control women at every moment – men who follow women when they go to the store, who control their freedom and who limit their life space. This leads to isolation and the worst kind of alienation. It is not a description of something that happened a hundred years ago; it is a description of what is happening right now, while we stand here debating equality. We cannot turn a blind eye to those problems. We cannot accept that developments are going in the wrong direction and that the clock is turning back. Law-enforcement equality applies to everyone, and we do not negotiate it. Honorary norm is inculcated from an early age: The girl who neither learns Swedish nor participates in contexts outside her own home is in danger of being relegated to an alienation that is permanent. The school should be a safe place where every student should be able to feel secure regardless of gender or religion, and we want newly arrived students to have the opportunity for social orientation and language education in order to be able to take part of Swedish society. The Moderates want to criminalise moral policemen and introduce a special crime classification for honor crimes. Honorary motives should be seen as an aggravating circumstance when sentencing punishment, and expulsion due to crime should be possible in more cases. Madam President, I would like Sweden has come a long way in terms of equality between women and men, but there are still major problems. Women earn less than men, and women participate less in the labour market than men. This, of course, affects income in both the short and long term. Foreign born women have a particularly weak position in the labour market and become more dependent on benefits than others. The starting points of Moderate ideology and central reforms are the freedom, personal responsibility and willingness of every person to do right. Moderate policy is the best way to achieve gender equality and equal opportunities for men and women in the short and long term. Economic independence is a crucial prerequisite for women's empowerment and independence. The fact that Sweden is one of the world's most equal countries is a result of conscious, methodical and long-term work as well as conscious reforms on issues such as labour market, social security, welfare and childcare. For the Moderates, it shows that this is an issue that has several sides and that many must continue to work on the issue in order for equality to be equal and valid for all.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-924	Madam President, I would like One year after the Metoo, Jessica Polfjärd dismantles the state gender equality policy. I ventured to go back to the debate a year ago, where Jessica Polfjärd's colleague from the Moderates, Erik Andersson, participated. He said at the time that bringing together tasks at the Equality Agency was in danger of breaking up well-functioning activities. It would be difficult to get the skills to move to Gothenburg. Barely a year after the Gender Equality Agency was established, we know that Erik Andersson from the Moderates was wrong. Experts have moved from all over the country to settle in Gothenburg and work for gender equality at the Gender Equality Agency. The children have been moved to new schools. Despite the fears of the Moderates, they have succeeded. But now you are destroying this activity, which was then so important. You have entered some sentence that these important things should be moved to other places. It is not clear where, nor is it clear with what resources. Jessica Polfjärd: What impact assessment have the Moderates done? Why are you breaking up well-functioning, important businesses?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-929	Madam President, I would like I thank Annika Hirvonen. I believe that there was a rather straight line in the Moderates' reply even during the previous budget debate in this particular area of expenditure. We did not want this authority to be set up, and we do not think that that is the most important thing to carry forward gender equality policy. We do not believe that this authority is what will make equality the big issue that we will manage to get through from a political perspective because we gather all the skills under a hat. We also see, as Annika Hirvonen said, that they took expertise from the other authorities. They took expertise from other parts of society to gather it in this group. It may be worthwhile, but we believe that this coordination will be able to work anyway. There are many people who work with this type of issues that have competence and who lost competence when the Authority was set up. You have both knowledge and opportunities. Let us take the research as an example. Why should research be distributed through the Gender Equality Agency when it is possible to give assignments directly to universities and higher education institutions and get the opportunity to get researchers to also take an interest in gender equality? That is something we need to shed more light on. I am absolutely convinced that this is an important issue. If gender mainstreaming is to work, more people need to help. These include education, education, society at large, research, the labour market and economic equality. Then more people have to help.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-934	Madam President, I would like This line could be shortened to three letters, i.e. how. The most important thing for gender equality is not the Equality Agency, but the Moderates' policy today is to dismantle the Equality Agency. Does Jessica Polfjärd mean that this is the most important thing for gender equality policy? Then they have totally taken arm hook with the Swedish Democrats, who want to back the whole gender equality policy. Jessica Polfjärd says universities and colleges can do that. We were talking right here in this House about the budget for universities and colleges. Not a penny has the Moderates moved there! Not a penny have you moved to Arbetsförmedlingen or any other authority! You just iron – it's just a red pen in gender equality policy! How do the Moderates think we should achieve the important goals of gender equality? Where's the money? Who's gonna do the job?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-938	Madam President, I would like I could probably turn the question around and actually think that Annika Hirvonen Falk at this stage reduces gender equality policy to a question of how. Who is going to do this, who is going to do this, and why is the Authority going to have the whole mission? We see that there are many who can share this competence. We had a job that was introduced and carried out by people who have commitment, knowledge and competence on these issues before we introduced the Equality Agency. The County Administrative Board of Östergötland worked with honor-related violence. It is an activity that is fantastic, where you sit on skills and have the opportunity to interact with other actors in this area. It is a business that I think should be permanent and that has had good results. It is you, Annika Hirvonen Falk, who gets stuck in how. You have limited your view by seeing an authority as the only thing that could solve all the problems of equality. We believe that there must be more players taking part in that journey.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-942	Madam President, I would like Jessica Polfjärd spoke in her speech about a lot of problems in this area – men's violence against women, honour-related violence and oppression, the need for a change of view on sexual crimes and so on – and began in the Metoo uprising. What you are thinking about as a listener is how Jessica Polfjärd and the Moderates believe that all these problems are solved by closing down the Equality Agency. Otherwise, it's very thin. I note that the whole gender equality section of the party motion on which this report is based includes 20 lines on an A4 paper. It is the equality of Moderates that we are taking a position on in this House today. In what way do we solve the problems of honour problems, men's violence against women, different salaries, poorer working conditions and differences in health by closing down the expert authority that is not tasked with taking over work from someone else, but is tasked with carrying out some very important concrete tasks that we do not now know who is going to do and to follow up and support other authorities and organisations in the work on gender equality? In the future, who will ensure that gender mainstreaming in public authorities continues and is followed up? Just as Jessica Polfjärd said in her speech, Sweden is at the forefront of gender equality work, but there is still much to be done. One problem has been that, although you have often invested a lot of money, you have not been able to see that it has achieved the results you had expected. That's why the Equality Agency was created. How have Jessica Polfjärd and the Moderates imagined that all the problems that Jessica Polfjärd lists will be solved through the liquidation of an authority?
i-24uoeZ4KNKPxGcKtukUyqh	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Anna Johansson! It is under this government that the number of crimes has increased and sexual acts have been piled up. Crimes have been reported, but there has been no investigation. The women who are waiting for there to be an opportunity for redress will wait in vain because you have not prioritised this. It is possible that gender equality policy may not only be pursued within our spending area. We have lots of proposals on gender equality in several policy areas, because we see that this is something that we need to bring through the many committees and the many areas of expenditure in order for it to have power and impact in politics and to have a real impact. I think we can begin by seeing what is happening and acknowledging that there are problems of honour, that there are people in our country today who do not take part in and have access to equality. The Equality Agency was your solution. We never said that we thought it was the perfect organizational opportunity for equality to have a strong and great impact. We said from the beginning that we thought it was better to allocate assignments to those actors who already have competence and have the opportunity to collaborate. And Anna Johansson knows that it may be the case that when a government takes office, it may be able to coordinate this. You can organize it in a different way. I believe in collaborative models and the possibility of knowledge transfer. However, I also believe that there must be cooperation between several departments and policy areas in order to give us the real strength to implement gender equality.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-952	Madam President, I would like Yes, Jessica Polfjärd, that is exactly why the Equality Agency was set up, not to take over any work but to tighten it up. I note again that I am not getting answers to my questions from Jessica Polfjärd. Now I'm going to ask you a very specific question. We have changed the legislation on sexual offences, we have introduced a new consent law, we have tightened the penalties for several sexual offences and so on. We are bringing new money to the police, and we also had a proposal to increase the funding to combat men's violence against women. We therefore agree on a great deal. There is no one in this House who does not see that there is honour-related oppression and who does not want to counteract it. My question is: in what areas of funding do we find the 40 million that are disappearing from the Gender Equality Agency, so that gender equality work can continue in all other organisations that Jessica Polfjärd sees before her? In which areas of funding do we find the money?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-956	Madam President, I would like It is strange, Anna Johansson, that in those parts of the gender equality policy where the Moderates and the Alliance have been the driving force, we can agree, but where we think that the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party have gone in the wrong direction, we have no common view whatsoever. We've been pushing for punishment all along and for us to work with honor-related violence. We from the Alliance have been clear there all along. You have actually said during the gallows that you should also give more resources to the police. We have said that we want to dismantle the Equality Authority responsibly. We believe that the commitments and mandates we have today should be phased out and organised in a different way, put out to other actors. You know as well as I do, Anna Johansson, that there is no government in place. However, when a government comes in, I think it should give a clear mandate to transfer the agency's commitments to other actors.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-960	Madam President, I would like The basis for successful gender equality work is the understanding of the equal, unique and inviolable value of all people. Women and men should have equal conditions to shape their lives according to their own wishes. It is an important task to eliminate traditional notions, prejudices, structures and legal obstacles that hinder and hinder equality between men and women. This applies to family life, working life and other social life. A sign of inequality, for example, is unreasonably justified pay gap between women and men. Behind wage setting is often the perception of the value of different types of work. It is unacceptable that prejudice should be allowed to value a person's contribution to the labour market. It is unacceptable, Madam President, that almost a third of Sweden's women today feel insecure when they go out in the evenings and that some even choose to stay inside. The Council's national security measurements show that women's insecurity has never been this great. It is unacceptable that more than one in five people in Sweden have been subjected to crimes in a close relationship at some point in their lives. The Safety Survey found that for women, 40 per cent of cases of assault are related. At the same time, the issue of violence in close relationships is much more complex and multifaceted than it is often made. For example, there are a number of studies showing men's exposure to violence in close relationships. What distinguishes is the type of violence used when women are exposed to more severe violence and that they are more exposed to controlling behaviour. Control is also a characteristic feature of the problem of honour. To have your freedom curtailed to meet the demands of your family is unfortunately a reality for too many people in Sweden today. Honour culture and oppression are not compatible with a free and democratic society. Violence in close relationships and oppression of honour are crimes that often fall outside the crime statistics, and the number of darkness is thus widespread. Madam President, I would like The fight against the oppression of honour needs to be intensified and to draw inspiration from British and Norwegian solutions that are much more operational and departmental. The Christian Democrats also want permanent Länsstyrelsen in Östergötland's national work on honor-related violence and oppression. Their work has greatly contributed to an increase in the level of knowledge in the country and has become more equal. It was very close that this activity would be closed down with the appointment of a special equality authority, but it has received a certain respite. Madam President, I would like We do not believe in bringing together all gender equality objectives under one roof. When the Equality Agency started, there were already functioning structures. The fact that resources have been taken from them is not, in our view, a sensible priority. Instead, for the Christian Democrats, it has been urgent to strengthen functioning activities. I have mentioned the honorary work at the County Administrative Board in Östergötland, but also the activities at the National Centre for Women's Peace, NCK, in Uppsala, as well as the coordination carried out by the County Administrative Board in Stockholm County in the important work against prostitution and human trafficking for sexual and other purposes. The report we are debating here today underlines that the new government will review how the important tasks of the Equality Authority can be transferred and returned to the appropriate authorities and actors. The actors I have mentioned now are, to say the least, appropriate. A transition should also take place in a way that prevents knowledge and experience from being lost. In order to achieve greater equality, reforms and efforts are needed in all areas. Reforms are needed to ensure that more women are able to support themselves, that women's security is taken seriously, and that the increase in sex offences in recent years is met with strong measures, not high. Boys can do just as well in school as girls. The work on gender equality does not depend on the fact that we only have one authority that takes care of gender equality for us. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats' starting point for the establishment of newly arrived immigrants is that people who have come to our country should be given the opportunity to take responsibility for their own lives. The state should help to facilitate and create conditions, not kill its own drive through too long waiting and passivity. It is quite clear that increased efforts are needed in order for more people who have come to Sweden as quickly as possible to learn the Swedish language and get a job with their own salary to live on. Despite the fact that we are in a boom and that there is a high demand for labour, the division of labour markets has increased. We see high unemployment among foreign-borns, while employers are becoming increasingly difficult to find labour. That Sweden succeeds in integration policy and gets more people in work is crucial for us to be able to push back the alienation and segregation that despite the boom has deepened. It is crucial for the legitimacy of migration policy. More flexible solutions are needed to better match skills with job vacancies. The alliance-wide proposals on entry jobs and the development of the RUT deduction are reforms that increase the conditions for more jobs to be created and can increase employment among newcomers in particular. Madam President, I would like A well-functioning integration requires certain social and value-added obligations. Those who have fled war and oppression and have come to our country should feel welcome to create a good life in freedom here and become part of the community. Jobs and languages are crucial elements, but it must also be clear how our society works and what values it is based on. It is clear that we have not managed the balance between tolerance and clarity. The segregation in Sweden today means that there is a large group of people who do not support themselves and who have quite little contact with Swedish society at all. There are preschools where there is so little Swedish that children risk not passing school. 2018 will be a record year for shootings in Sweden. There are children in our country who live in areas where insecurity and serious crime are part of everyday life. The police are talking about 23 particularly vulnerable areas, which are assessed, inter alia, on the basis of legal certainty, the ability of the police to carry out their mission and parallel social structures. It says a lot about segregation and exclusion in general. We can no longer continue in the same track. It is clear that segregation problems are very much related to unemployment, inequality, low school outcomes and crime. To counteract segregation therefore requires reforms that allow more people to live in security and equality, can have a job to go to, can learn Swedish and can graduate with full grades. This is what the state should prioritise in its expenditure, not increase different types of project funds. We therefore consider it a reasonable priority to remove the appropriations for measures against segregation and to close the Delegation against segregation. What is needed is more money for the police and the judiciary as well as increased job opportunities for newcomers, increased social orientation, language preschool for newly arrived children and more qualified teachers for vulnerable areas. All children in our country must have the same chances of life. Our budget contains this, and our budget contains a new direction for Sweden. That is why, Madam President, I support the committee's proposal.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-979	Madam President, I would like Sofia Damm talks about inappropriate pay differences, violence in close relationships and honour-related violence and oppression. She talks about drawing inspiration from abroad to combat honour-related violence. Earlier today I talked to the Gender Equality Agency, who told me about her work in doing exactly what Sofia Damm wants someone to do. Recently there was an international conference with participants from the UK, among others, to learn how we in Sweden should become better at preventing and counteracting and acting when repression has led to crime. It is therefore surprising that Sofia Damm wants to close the Equality Agency today. She's talking about the missions being moved to someone else. The money is transferred to RUT deduction. There is no money being transferred to the county administrative board Östergötland, to the higher education institutions or to any other body in the budget that the Christian Democrats, together with the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, have voted through in this House. I ask Sofia Damm the same question that I asked Jessica Polfjärd: by whom and by what money do you mean that this important work should be carried on? After all, the money you spend is not even enough for decommissioning.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-983	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Annika Hirvonen Falk, for listening so attentively to my speech! In her speech, Annika Hirvonen Falk spoke a lot about the fact that we conduct symbolic politics. But who is actually conducting symbolic politics? You are now trying to imagine that gender equality work in our country stands and falls with the Equality Agency. It is about how the gender equality work is organised, and we were against an equality authority from the beginning. I therefore find it difficult to see how you can be so surprised that we do not think this is the right priority. Let us remember that the investigation that led up to the agency came about by the alliance government spending a great deal of money historically on gender equality efforts. The fact that the investigator came to the conclusion that an authority was needed, I have respect for it, but we must not forget that several heavy bodies came up with harsh criticism and thought that this might not be the way forward. Coordination was needed, but perhaps not a take-over of tasks from already existing activities. This is what we oppose, Annika Hirvonen Falk. Instead, we want to strengthen already functioning authorities. We clearly state in the budget that it is the government that should review how it should be ensured that this is transferred and returned to the appropriate authorities and actors. Of course, we cannot return this without a bag of money, and Annika Hirvonen Falk is well aware that a government has the opportunity to do this kind of reprioritization.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-988	Madam President, I would like I am well aware that the Christian Democrats opposed taking activities from elsewhere and moving them to the Equality Authority. Mrs Pethrus, who then took the debate, was concerned about the skill gap that such a move would entail. There was talk of alternative solutions then too. But now that everything has already been moved, I do not understand why the Christian Democrats want to break what exists without plan and impact assessment. I thought in my naivety that the Christian Democrats thought these activities were so important that they would not be disturbed by a lot of reorganization. But that's what you're doing now. That is what I mean by symbolic politics.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-990	Madam President, I would like I thank Annika Hirvonen Falk for further emphasising the Green Party's view that everything stands and falls with this authority. I am convinced that this is not the case, but that the activity that still exists, even if it has been partially affected, will do just fine. I believe that there is a danger in having a specific authority, because then you can say: Yes, yes, this is the one that manages that authority anyway. After all, we have a gender equality authority, so let them take care of this. In her first reply, Annika Hirvonen Falk was aware that I said that we should take inspiration from abroad. It is about working much more across departments and authorities to integrate this in a better way than leaving it to a single authority. And as for the fact that we want to remove this authority, which has existed for such a short time, it is better that it is done now and that it is done right than that we allow it to continue.
i-RHEbd1qW3rQrdWjaYxgMsg	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by referring to the joint opinion of the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party in the Committee on Employment's report No 1. This is because Sweden has a transitional government, as has been said from this speaker's seat not only in this debate but in all the budget debates and will be heard a few more times until Christmas. After discussions with the parties of the Riksdag, the Government has come up with principles for what a transitional budget should look like and presented it. After this, a number of parties have chosen to raise their own motions instead of waiting for a government with proposals for reform. In addition, three parties have chosen to make common cause through reservations in the Committee on Finance and voted for a poorly thought-out and poorly prepared budget. This, Madam President, is an act that is irresponsible and unserious. The reason for this action has been that Sweden is facing major challenges and that the proposals it makes cannot wait for a government to take office. The proposals therefore relate to what must be done here and now. In other words, the Equality Authority must be closed down here and now. It can't wait. It cannot be prepared. It can't be investigated. This cannot be done in any orderly way at all. The gender equality authority must be shut down immediately. The question then arises: how did Moderates, Christian Democrats and Swedish Democrats think? That is what I was going to see, Madam President, as to whether it might be possible to get things right. The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs' report No 1 states that, in this context, the committee proposes the closure and termination of the Equal Opportunities Agency as an agency on 31 December 2019. For 2019, a grant of 3:2 SEK 41 million will be added to the Gender Equality Authority. The committee would like to draw attention to the fact that the purpose of the 3:2 allocation is changed to the use of the administrative expenditure of the Equality Authority in order to fulfil the commitments entered into and to dismantle the Agency. It will be a task for the government to review how the important tasks now gathered by the Gender Equality Agency can best be taken care of and transferred and returned to the appropriate authorities and actors. The committee would like to stress the importance of this transition taking place in a way that avoids the loss of knowledge and experience in this area. It is, of course, important to safeguard existing activities that are important for gender equality work. ..................................................... That is exactly how the report we are debating here today writes. I repeat, it will be a task for the government to review how the important tasks now gathered by the Equality Authority can best be taken care of and transferred and returned to the appropriate authorities and actors. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like You cannot accuse moderates, Christian Democrats or Swedish democrats of making a mess of it. On the contrary, it is easy. You make it very easy for yourself. You make it irresponsiblely easy for yourself. You make it unseriously easy for yourself. How is this supposed to happen? Unfortunately, there may be a small repetition of Annika Hirvonen Falk's questions. But since they never get an answer, Madam President, I think it is worth taking up this House's time to ask: how? In addition to the tasks regulated by the Equality Authority's instructions, the Authority has a number of tasks in regulatory letters and other matters. However, in addition to these assignments, there are a number of assignments to other agencies where the Gender Equality Agency is designated as a collaboration partner. I will take a small pick: gender mainstreaming in government agencies, gender mainstreaming at universities and colleges, coordination of work against trafficking in human beings and exploitation of children, follow-up of gender equality policy objectives, violence prevention work, commissions on sexual harassment, international conference on men and gender equality, reports on county boards' gender mainstreaming strategies, mandates to promote economic equality and living conditions for women with disabilities, methodology development for joint control by public authorities to combat cross-compliance and crime at work, assignments to provide training and knowledge support to universities on issues related to men's violence against women and violence in close relationships, and assignments on effective ways of working and methods of disseminating information on gender mutilation of girls and women. As this is the debate and report of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I would like to mention that gender mainstreaming in the area of integration and labour market is extremely important issues to have continued to focus on, Madam President. This also highlights Annika Hirvonen Falk in connection with the report from the Swedish National Audit Office, which also I received in my mailbox today while I was compiling this speech. There are many large and heavy tasks that now end up in limbo. This, Madam President, dismisses Christian Democrats, Swedish Democrats and Moderates with a light-hearted, irresponsible and unseriously How? When I wrote this speech, Madam President, I must admit that I asked the question. How? It's rhetorical. But now I have had the opportunity to listen to Jessica Polfjärd when she tried to answer Annika Hirvonen Falk's question: How? Jessica Polfjärd, the moderate representative, replied: There isn't anyone listening to this that can take it seriously, is there? The question is, how? The answer is: we believe it will work anyway. Annika Hirvonen Falk has also highlighted the issue that the grant that has been left behind is irresponsible for another reason, namely that it is not even enough to carry out the tasks that it places on the authority. Then, Madam President, I would just like to remind those listening to this that there may be reason to read the motions that have been tabled in connection with the report and, in particular, to study the Christian Democrats' motion, because they did not leave a penny behind. They wiped everything out. If one can accuse the Moderates of oseriosity and irresponsibility, I would say that this competition is actually won by the Christian Democrats. It is not bad to beat the Moderates in irresponsibility and oseriosity. The government will therefore be tasked with investigating this. Is that the answer? What do you expect — a napkin sketch? We Social Democrats, who take politics seriously and take gender issues seriously, will not let go of this issue. We will continue to work in committee to change the deeply unfortunate decision to close the Equality Agency. We will not give up until the matter has been dealt with responsibly. That is a promise, Madam President. The Moderates, the Christian Democrats, the Swedish Democrats and so gender equality. There's something that's shaking here. The fact that these parties find each other on the issue of equality may not be surprising. But it is really frightening, Madam President. The Moderates! We have today launched a 100-year celebration of the breakthrough of democracy. The Moderates have historically always opposed gender equality, ranging from the implementation of universal and equal voting rights to today's budget debate, although perhaps today there is more indifference on this issue. They have even engaged in historical revisionism and sometimes try to claim that they have kept the gender equality standard high. But we know, Madam President – and it is manifesting here today – that there has been a shift from active opposition to equality to passive indifference. It's the Moderates' journey in 100 years. The Christian Democrats! The idea of the 1950s, the housewife and the happy patriarchal family may seem idyllic. But the reality is different. Real equality requires women's participation in an equal labour market under the same conditions and conditions as for men. Women's incomes and pensions are still lagging behind, and if future generations of women are to emerge from this, labour market and family policies are crucial. Then, for example, we cannot have custody allowance. On the basis of this report, we are also discussing integration policies, and, of course, the policy of Christian Democratic equality also fails in integration. I read from the Christian Democrats' motion that the Christian Democrats want to make it easier for families to combine family life and working life. We want to give families more options to choose how they want to live their lives and what form of childcare suits them best. That's what it says, and it sounds nice. But we know where it leads. Madam President, I would like Finally to the Swedish Democrats. The Swedish Democrats are a party with the roots of Nazism, as you all know. This also applies to their politics and their view of race and gender. 中 Gender equality is a value that is often taken for granted. At the same time, it is not uncommon for the concept to mean different things to different people. There are also differences of opinion as to the role that politics should play in shaping an equal society. ..................................................... That is how, Madam President, the Swedish Democrats begin their motion on the subject. If you read it, you can only agree. The concept of equality does not mean the same for decent parties as for the Swedish Democrats. Later, the text states that it is unacceptable to formulate a goal of one-way elimination of men's violence against women, since the actual problem is not linked to the gender of victims or perpetrators. In other contexts, such as linking race and ethnicity to violence, it is very important to link it to both victims and perpetrators. In the world of Swedish Democrats, Madam President, the victim is a Swedish-born woman and the perpetrator is a man born abroad. The Swedish Democrats are a party with a policy with which decent parties cannot cooperate. Moreover, the Swedish democrats have representatives who make it impossible, or should make it impossible. In a motion concerning the Equality Agency, submitted by five Swedish democratic men, you can take part in the Swedish Democrats' view on the issue of gender equality. I quote from the motion: the Swedish Democrats believe that the government should immediately close the Equality Authority. In the political and media debate, the concept of equality has been missed and almost equated with the fact that men and women are expected to do exactly the same things, to exactly the same extent throughout their lives. Gender differences are being explained away by the fact that these are purely social constructions and suggest potentially destructive measures to try to fill arbitrarily established statistical quotas or experiment with children's personal development. ..................................................... That this exercise was not written by someone who is passionate about gender equality is clear to those who take the trouble to read what the Swedish Democrats produce. Later in the motion, it is also generally directly offensive to authorities who have the task of raising citizens in matters relating to the individual's right to philosophic and political freedom. ..................................................... The fact that the representatives of the Swedish democrats would need to raise both philosophical and political issues, but above all decency must well be the understatement of the day. One of the Swedish democratic MPs who signed the motion is the person who lets misogynism flow freely on his internet account. Throughout this account, women are called vaginas, bitches, and whores. You can also read tips on how to rape women and how to buy sex. When the Swedish Democratic Member of Parliament is revealed in Dagens Nyheter, he explains that it was a typical immature language. The only explanation is also satisfied by the Swedish Democratic Party leadership. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are not a party with which we Social Democrats would dream of cooperating. There are three problems with the Swedish Democrats: the party, the politics and the representatives. Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats believe that together with the Center Party and the Liberals we can make a difference in Swedish politics. This applies, for example, to the Equality Agency. Gender equality policy is an area where it becomes very clear that we must never let the Swedish Democrats have any influence. The developments we see here in the Swedish Parliament that Moderates and Christian Democrats are opening up to cooperation with the Swedish Democrats must be stopped.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1026	Madam President, I would like I would, of course, like to begin by calling for the Swedish Democrats' reservation to be approved. Finally, we have reached Category 13 on gender equality and the establishment of newly arrived immigrants. It is truly gratifying that so many people find these issues so important that there are 17 pre-announced speakers today. It shows what commitment there is to these issues. As a gender equality spokesperson, it makes me particularly happy. It also shows that the level of ambition in gender equality issues is not low even though Sweden is one of the world's most equal countries. It shows that we do not settle without wanting to go on, want to get even better and live up to the title as a pioneer country. That is very pleasing. I think we can still take a little while and be a little proud of ourselves because, after all, we live in a country that is one of the world's most equal. It is a country that has long been at the forefront of gender equality. It is a country that has secured, among other things, women's rights through women's peace legislation for many years. Unfortunately, though, despite these credentials on paper, there are a number of clouds of concern in the sky that are well worth taking seriously. I refer in part to the latest National Security Survey of the Council for Crime Prevention. It showed that in 2017 over 34 per cent of women aged 16 to 24 have been exposed to some form of sexual crime. For those who are quick on mathematics, it corresponds to one in three young women. At the same time, the oppression of honour has established itself as a phenomenon in our country. It is a horrendous phenomenon that reaps lives and restricts the rights of women and men. These are rights that they are deprived of when it comes to deciding for themselves who to marry, who they are allowed to spend time with, or whether they are allowed to go out on their own. It rhymes very badly that this is the case in one of the world's most equal countries. With a background in youth policy for a couple of years, I have not least during the last election campaign where these issues have been constantly topical met with the very group that is most vulnerable. It is my own group, women aged 16 - 24. Many of them unfortunately confirm the picture painted in the statistics. They feel scared, they feel insecure, and they don't dare go home by themselves. They actively choose not to do this. The times they have no choice, they go with a mobile or key in their hand in case the worst happens. They have a key to defend themselves, mobile to call for help. There are some things that I have reflected on after these meetings. The first is how well I unfortunately recognize myself in their stories. How I myself, when I go home alone, constantly look over my shoulder to see if anyone goes behind me and if in such cases it is a person who acts threateningly. The second thing that I have reflected on is that both me and the girls who share their stories no longer think that this is some strange thing. They do it out of habit and because they think they have to. When the abnormal becomes the new normal, something has gone very wrong. Madam President, I would like It's a shame. It is a shame that in Sweden we cannot guarantee basic security for all our citizens. It is about women and men not being able to stay in the public space on the same terms and that only some, and not all, in Sweden are free. Security is so fundamental to freedom that if it does not exist, the rest is not so much worth. It is therefore of the utmost importance that we pursue a gender equality policy aimed at increasing and restoring security. In order for victims not to have to meet the offender on the street only a couple of years after the crime has been committed, severe penalties are needed for sexual offences. More police officers are needed to investigate crimes so that criminal reports are not piled up, and we need to expand the on-call activities that are doing a fantastic job of receiving calls from people who have been exposed. They listen to their stories, they offer support and they act as a helping first step for people to tell what they have been exposed to. All these measures, and many more, are needed if we are to restore the security of our country for all citizens. Madam President, I would like However, it is quite easy to get stuck here – in the concrete, what you can see and touch and what we can also make laws about in this House. But equality goes beyond what we can see with the naked eye and what we can touch; it's also about how we look at each other. It's about how we treat each other in society and how we look at women versus how we look at men. It is about how we value different choices made by individuals and whether we simplify or make it difficult for individuals to make their own choices. It is about how well we live up to the conviction that it is the possibilities, and not the outcome, that matter. The Swedish democrats are striving for a gender equality policy based on this: the conviction that it is the opportunities that matter and not the outcome. It is about opportunities to create the life you want to live, where your own decisions are what ultimately determines the outcome. We want a society where each individual can create the life you want based on their own conditions, dreams and ideals. No one should be blamed for the choices you make, whether you choose to live in accordance with prevailing standards or choose to live by your own. It is only when we put faith in people that they can begin to grow. It is only when we dare to trust that people are capable of making their own decisions that we can get away from the pointers of politics. It is only when we have achieved this that together we can break glass ceilings for real.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1042	Madam President, I would like There were many fine words from Ebba Hermansson but very few measures to achieve the vision of gender equality that Ebba Hermansson also says he sees before him. She says she's proud. I'm proud, too. I am proud of the struggle that feminists have waged before me. I'll give you what one of them usually says: Men's violence against women is not a natural disaster that we just need to deal with. That's something we can change. It's behavior that can be changed. We can change both the norms and the cultures of violence that exist. In an equal society, we no longer need to relate to this. We do not need to have keys in our hands or make other different efforts when the violence has already taken place and when the rapes have already been committed. Madam President, I would like That is why we need structured, organised work to prevent violence and sexual harassment and to work on other important gender issues. This is what the Swedish Democrats want to phase out completely in your budget, Ebba Hermansson. That doesn't add up to the fine words. Your budget will not achieve the vision of an equal society in which all people can make their own life choices on equal terms. It will not cause young women to stop feeling insecure on their way home at night.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1045	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the line, Annika Hirvonen Falk! I am a little puzzled and wondering exactly what Annika Hirvonen Falk is referring to when she points to different things in our budget, so she is happy to come back and put it into practice. Looking at the debate we have had in the past, however, I assume that Annika Hirvonen Falk refers to the Equality Agency, which is why I will respond to it. I think me and the honourable Member Annika Hirvonen Falk share quite a lot of views when it comes to the problem description. However, we have come to another conclusion where the solution of the red-green parties to various problems is almost always the creation of a new authority. I do not think it will necessarily solve problems that exist either in the field of equality or in other areas, but I and the Swedish Democrats see that there may be many other solutions to overcome the problems that exist. Some of these I mentioned in my speech, including stricter penalties. It signals, not least, to those who are exposed that this is something that we take seriously. This is nothing we sweep under the carpet. I also mentioned the hotlines and that we need to expand their activities and provide them with funds to carry out the important work they are doing. These are some of the measures we have proposed in this area. Annika Hirvonen Falk is very welcome to also take part in the programme of measures for women's safety in everyday life that we have presented and which can be read on Parliament's website.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1049	Madam President, I would like It is true that the work of women's shelters and honorary shelters is important. Clear penalties are also important. That is why, among other things, I participated in the introduction of the consent law, which the Swedish Democrats were strongly opposed to. What I do not hear is what measures the Swedish Democrats have to prevent rape from being committed so that women do not have to go to the emergency services and so that no one has to commit that crime that is to be punished. These measures are important if we want to put an end to violence and if we want women to feel safe.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1051	Madam President, I would like Thank you for this clarification. I do not rule out the need for reinforcements in the field of prevention, and I also think that this is an area that is often a little obscured. One is very focused on what happens once the crime has been committed. I agree; there I think you have a good point. Once again, I believe that what I mentioned in my speech makes it possible to get to grips with this: to work on how we look at each other and how we choose to respond to each other in society. How do we look at each other? Do we respect each other or do we not? Although the punishment itself is about something that happens once the crime has been committed, I think that in itself it is an important job. It is important that we make sure that we send out signals from the state right now that this is something we take seriously and something we prioritise and do not accept. The current system is that the penalties are so low that they are not at all proportionate to the crime. And what kind of signals does it send out?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1054	Madam President, I would like In my first speech in this House, I chose to talk about trust – more explicitly about trust that is being eroded. It is about trust in us politicians, in our institutions, in the media and ultimately about trust in each other. I expressed my concern about the polarizing development of society that is taking place at home and around the world. I then urged us to tackle the structural problems that fatten the erosion of the trust that has built Sweden strongly over the years. It is the same structural problem that feeds xenophobia, populism and nationalism. Unfortunately, instead, we have had a autumn that has contained nothing but game theories, digging trenches and a collective failure to manage the election result that the voters gave us. Despite a messy autumn and a transitional government, approximately 400 000 people have been granted a residence permit in Sweden for the last three years. It's a figure that's gonna look the same in the next few years. Some of these people are refugees or relatives, and others are labour immigrants or students. Whatever you think of the migration policy that has previously been conducted, it is high time to put that debate aside and instead focus on how we can resolve integration together. The fact that old locks must not prevent new solutions is always my starting point. But the questions that arise are as follows: What do we really mean by the concept of integration? What does it mean to be integrated? Is a job enough to qualify for the Swedish Democrats definition of integrated people? Or should you have to pork your Christmas ham and take a nub to it for Christmas, eat tacos on Fridays, watch Mellon on Saturdays and visit Ikea on Sundays to qualify as integrated? What is the community of values for which all nationalists are writhing so much? What do we strive for – assimilation? In fact, even that concept does not seem to be a consensus. Is it not time for a broader social debate on what expectations and demands we have on people who come here so that we have a common target, something that can be held and aimed at? What should I do as a foreign born to be accepted? How do we create this acceptance and understanding, and how do we overcome fears? How do we meet each other? There must be a depth in this discussion. We cannot, and we must no longer, accept that a party paints the image of a society in total decay and that the rest of us follow in the alternative reality description, albeit with our own starting points. Madam President, I would like For me, integration is basically about meetings between people, about knowledge, understanding and trust. It is not something that can be arranged through political directives. Politicians can't and shouldn't solve everything. But there are things that we can actually do here and now. For example, the time is now coming for a parliamentary investigation to take a holistic approach to how our systems interact in the new arrivals' journey from the first day in Sweden to being integrated. There are many lessons to be learned there, I promise. Only then and only then can we see the whole puzzle and put in the right measures, in the right phase and for the right target group. As you know, the group of new arrivals is not a homogeneous group. There are highly educated doctors, nurses and engineers, but also a large group of people who do not even have an upper secondary education. It goes without saying that the stakes must be different. But there are also parts that unite these people's journey into Swedish society: language, knowledge of how Swedish society works and rights and obligations. In our budget motion, we in the Center Party have many proposals to address the challenges facing Sweden in depth. But for Sweden to be able to cope with integration, a new approach is also needed in politics. Sweden should be able to expect more of the new arrivals, and the new arrivals should be able to expect more of Sweden. Swedish society must give newcomers an opportunity to start their new life in Sweden and, through jobs and languages, stand on their own feet. Integration policy needs to make greater demands and become more intensive and effective. Unfortunately, today is not enough time for me to go into all our proposals, but I will address the labour market aspects of tomorrow's speech. Madam President, I would like You're supposed to finish in the end, they say. I thought for a long time about how to do that, given the situation, and I thought about when last week I had a class in grade 5 visiting here in Parliament. One of the stops along the tour was the Women's Room here outside the Chamber, and there is a mirror with a sign under which it says: Are you Sweden's take female Prime Minister? In that room I was asked if I thought I would be a Member of Parliament when I was their age. That question aroused strong feelings in me, and I tried to hold back tears. The answer was, of course, no. When I was 11 years old, I lived in another country, grew up under difficult conditions, and carried many traumas. I did not think at the time that one day I would have the opportunity to stand in this Chamber and be involved in influencing decisions that could make a difference in other people's lives. The fact that I am standing here today despite my childhood in Tensta, a so-called alienation area, must nevertheless be proof that everything is actually possible and that we are doing and have done many things right here in our country. If we continue to believe in ourselves, our liberal democracy and our ability to give people the chance to realize themselves, the future will be bright. But it requires that we increase the trust in our society in our institutions and, above all, in each other.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1068	Madam President, I would like It has emerged from the debate today and is worth recalling again that the budgetary framework of the Moderates and Christian Democrats who have gone through it in the past has done so because they have been adapted to, and therefore have received the support of, the Swedish Democrats. The budget is a cleverly composed product seasoned with offerings to this neo-fascist party and its cloudy surrounding. It is an area which, for all its part, now also exerts a very strong influence on and within the other extreme parties on the right-wing conservatives, i.e. the Moderates and the Christian Democrats. Several speakers in this debate, including Annika Hirvonen Falk and my party colleague Ciczie Weidby, have addressed the closure of the Equality Agency. It's a kind of goodbye gift, one can say, to among other things the Flashback activist and SD member that we have seen revealed to be behind various misogynous tips and tricks online and who, as others mentioned earlier, before then have had time to exercise about the closure of the gender equality agency. I just want to say one thing about the process that has been. It is a rather startling process of preparation that we have seen. There are several of us in committee who have asked questions such as: Where are the tasks that have been transferred from other authorities to be followed up? The answer has been that we will have to take it in the debate in this House. Now we have had this debate in this House for a moment, and I would like to ask the representatives of the Moderates: how do you think it went to deliver those answers? They shine with their absence here – it's almost so that you get dazzled. I was going to talk about other things in this area. It is in this right-wing chaos budget, which was also released by the so-called middle parties of the Center and Liberals, other deteriorations of the same nature. It is a signal policy aimed at the most reactionary currents in our society, which at the same time also means cuts that have major, concrete negative consequences for the serious work of making Sweden a fairer and more inclusive country. In this area of expenditure, measures to combat segregation are affected. On the one hand, extensive resources for several hundred million SEK are removed annually, and on the other hand, another authority, the Delegation against segregation, is being reduced. I would like to make a small detour that also gives examples of this rogue and shaky process. During the committee's dealings, we were told that suddenly the Moderates, and perhaps some others, who have come up with the idea that these things that they want to remove the contributions from have already received some of the contributions paid or promised, and that one has to deal with in some way. At a sitting meeting you then realized that you can move 100 million from one grant to another. Well, to say the least, that's pretty unserious. In addition, the resources paid out shall be managed by the Authority Delegation against segregation, which shall be closed. It will be a fun task for the staff there; while working on their own decommissioning, they will also follow up on previously paid contributions. As I said, it is quite remarkable. Back to the actual content. It is therefore a question of closing the Delegation against segregation and removing 378 million, as it might be then, from work that would be long-term and to improve the situation in socio-economically vulnerable areas. It would be done in a long-term way so that you could follow up and learn new things. The right-wing people here think you can iron out; it's nothing to have. It is, of course, perfectly possible to make other policy priorities. It's kind of a bit what it's all about. It is also possible and perfectly reasonable to imagine that you should do things with other government structures – fine! But it should be things that you have thought through and that you argue for in an understandable way. But not! Just look at the report that governs what is happening here today. It is not exactly reflection that characterises the napkin sketch of the budget reservation. Let's go over the arguments. They are quite few and quite short. You can actually find them in one and a half sentences in the report. The Moderates, who have delivered the policies that have gone through, are of the opinion that segregation should be countered by reforms that lead to more people working. Well, you think, that's good to hear. What are these reforms? The report does not say anything about that. If you read the rest of the budget reservation, however, you can find out that it is a question of reducing the tax. This eternal panacea will solve all the problems, no matter who they are, even though we do not see anywhere – neither in Sweden nor internationally – that lower taxes solve all the problems. It also complements fiscal policy with substantial reductions in the labour market and other measures. Another argument you can find is the movement and improved integration. It is interesting that segregation, i.e. poor integration, should be managed through good integration. Wow! - as the kids would say. What's this all about? When it comes to integration – if we understand it correctly – people who move to our country over time can approach the standard of living, the labour market situation and the income of those who already live here. Any moderate policy that can be found, both in the budget and in the pipeline, is the opposite. It is tax policy for widening income gaps. It is a welfare policy that goes straight in and reduces the incomes of those who are already poorly off and need extra support. In this case, it is also a question of substantial cuts to the Employment Service, which affects precisely those who are far removed from the labour market. Finally, there is another argument: that more people learn Swedish and that more people go to school with full grades. That's great. I am not going to bring up the debates that have been here earlier today in the field of education and training, but let us note that the market fundamentalism that has led to very big problems in Swedish schools, particularly in terms of equivalence, is not something that this edge wants to withdraw – quite the contrary. It's something you cheer for, cherish and want more of. In addition, SFI, Swedish for immigrants, is not something you want to give early or value the quality of. Not even all of this, all these arguments... that can be found in one and a half rows... hold for a closer examination. They fall flat. This isn't just frivolous. It's pretty bad-minded. Instead of concrete measures, we want to focus on a kind of political-religious hope that both explicit and tried and tested deterioration, in the areas mentioned ourselves, will lead to improvements. It should be done by some kind of mysterious dynamic effects that have in principle only been observed at revival meetings in Timbro and like-minded congregations. It's not okay. This is not worthy of Swedish policy in general and not gender equality and integration policy in particular. Of course, the Left Party does not take part in the decision. We refer to our special opinion, which we have together with the Social Democrats and the Green Party.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1088	Madam President, I would like The gender equality agency has been in focus the last few days. It has also been the focus of this debate. Then we have to ask ourselves: Does Sweden really need a gender equality agency in 2018? The public debate has talked about contributions to menstruation certification of workplaces, money for a more equal discussion on nuclear weapons, and so on. Is that really where the emphasis in the discussion on gender equality should be? It is, in fact, a dumbing-down of the debate. Madam President, I would like What Sweden needs is a workable work against men's violence against women, honour-related violence and oppression and violence in same-sex relationships. The dissemination of knowledge about men's violence against women, honour-related violence and repression and violence in same-sex relationships was within the framework of the Gender Equality Agency. The mission to work against prostitution and human trafficking for sexual purposes was also within the framework of the Gender Equality Agency. National knowledge development and strategic cross-cutting issues related to honour-related violence and repression were also within the framework of the Gender Equality Agency. It is not work that can be waved away with concepts such as gender flum. It is about the real and actual vulnerability of women. That vulnerability cuts through all classes of society and all areas. Madam President, I would like Liberals have been a driving force in the creation of the Equality Agency. We maintain that it fulfils an important role as a state expert authority and therefore needs to remain. In the Liberals' budget option, it was still there. The Liberals presented their own budget bill. The Liberals also voted for their own budget bill. Liberals pursue liberal politics, nothing else. If the Authority were to be wound up, it is urgent that the tasks transferred to the Authority be returned to the authorities that were previously in charge. It is also necessary to ensure that no skills or experience are lost. Unlike others, I welcome Jessica Polfjärd's and Sofia Damm's speeches here today and the comments that have been made. Thank you for that. Madam President, I would like There are also other areas of gender equality policy. Combating honour-related violence and oppression has rightly been called the greatest gender equality challenge of our time. Not being able to choose what clothes you wear on your body, what you do in your own free time or your partner is the ultimate freedom. We in the Liberals therefore proposed in our budget motion that the work against honour-related violence and repression should be prioritised through a special effort of half a billion over four years. Madam President, I would like Much has been going on about gender equality in this debate. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight another important area that we describe in our budget motion. We have all seen reports on television about employees in, for example, pharmacies that are repeatedly exposed to attacks, discrimination and pure racism. This is partly an occupational safety and health issue, which the employer in particular has a responsibility to deal with, but which we all have a responsibility to counter. Everyone regardless of background should have the same opportunity to reach their full potential without being held back by prejudice or discrimination. Therefore, more effective anti-discrimination work is needed. Therefore, the activities of the Equality Ombudsman are central to a society free from discrimination. In our budget motion, we stress the importance of ensuring that DODO activities are conducted legally and effectively and that more individuals who are victims of discrimination are given the opportunity to redress. Madam President, I would like The current anti-discrimination law has soon been in place for ten years. There is reason to make an evaluation to examine whether the law is fit for purpose or whether there is reason to make changes to strengthen the individual's ability to assert his or her right.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1105	Madam President, I would like Initially, I would like to say that for a second I have no doubt about the commitment of either Maria Nilsson or the Liberals to these issues. We know that it was your Minister for Gender Equality who set up the investigation that was then carried out with the Equality Agency. What I ask myself is how the Liberals arrived at the practice that has now been established. During the time we have a transitional government, each party presents its own budget. Then the largest constellation – in this case the Conservative bloc – is allowed to get its way, even though there is no government in place, instead of gathering around the principles of a transitional budget without new reforms – in a situation where it has dramatic consequences in important areas. Much of the state's gender equality policy is now being slaughtered without an impact assessment and a plan. The same applies to environmental policy. There are also completely irresponsible cuts at the Migration Agency, which will only increase the costs of the state and people's suffering and so on. My second question is: what did Maria Nilsson hear in Jessica Polfjärds and Sofia Damms – now they are not in the Chamber – speech that I missed? Something was what Maria Nilsson welcomed, but I missed what they said that was so good for gender equality policy.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1109	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question, Annika Hirvonen Falk! This is my first line shift, so I'll do my best to handle it honorably. I'm a political scientist. I'm not a lawyer. I may be a political scientist, but I still do not really know how to answer the question of the transitional budget. A transitional budget is not a neutral budget. It is a continuation budget presented by the previous government. It is, of course, Social Democratic and environmentalist with the support of the Left Party. You are saying that it would be a practice to break this. As far as I know, we are faced with a parliamentary situation that we have never had before. It is difficult then to break practice because we do not have any existing practice. I cannot give Annika Hirvonen Falk a better answer than this. I would like to emphasise that liberals are pursuing liberal policies. That's why we put in our own budget bill. That is why we voted for our own budget motion.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1115	Madam President, I would like Maria Nilsson is quite right that there is no practice. There are some wordings which nevertheless support the idea that it should be a transitional budget that does not contain any new policy initiatives. Of course, nothing in this world is neutral. But the result of the current practice is that transitional budgets will not go through. This House will then vote for a budget to be managed by a transitional government that must not resign, but which must implement a policy that is in a hurry. Regardless of which party it is that produces it, a motion to Parliament is not made to become the economic policy of the state. The Ministry of Finance works for ten months each year to develop the state's economic policy. My second question was about what Jessica Polfjärd and Sofia Damm said. What was so great?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1118	Madam President, I would like Since this is a new situation, there is actually no practice to break. I think I'm gonna stay there. I don't want to talk about representatives who aren't in the hall. However, I understood that Jessica Polfjärd and Sofia Damm were clear that they wanted these assignments to return to previous clients – the County Administrative Board in Stockholm and so on – and that they wanted to leave it to a government to decide how it should be done. But I leave it to Jessica Polfjärd and Sofia Damm to further explain this. I can only stand for what I heard.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1120	Madam President, I would like In my speech, I intended to focus on the elements of segregation. Our political opponents do not seem to take developments seriously. They should take up the challenge and do something about the situation. We need a serious analysis of why the efforts so far have failed to break segregation. A serious discussion is needed here. There are some problems that come back all the time. Firstly, it is a matter of short-termness. Most of the actions have been carried out in project form and for a limited period of time. Projects can be good when new methods are to be tested or developed, but it is a failed form to solve structural problems. Secondly, we are talking about late action. Many of society's efforts are made when things have already gone wrong. Often it becomes expensive and it is difficult to reverse a development that has been going on for a long time. Thirdly, there is a lack of cooperation. The state, municipalities and civil society are making and making efforts to make up for segregation. Unfortunately, it rarely happens sufficiently coordinated and powerfully. Madam President, I would like That is why we Social Democrats believe that we need long-termism, early intervention and increased cooperation. The work against segregation does not have a beginning and an end after a few years. It is long-term work that is required. We need more prevention as early as possible, from preschool onwards. I studied very carefully the committee movement of the Swedish Democrats to understand how SD intends to combat segregation. Therefore, SD's proposal for compulsory preschools for only three- to five-year-olds becomes very difficult to understand for me. It is a proposal that they do not really believe in. You write: Hopefully this will lead to children bringing the language and an increased sense of Swedish society. You should not experience society as something alien, but you should have a relationship with it when you have grown up. It would be interesting to know how SD thinks. Hopefully it will help to make 3-5 year olds have an increased sense of understanding the majority society and help to get rid of segregation. Someone from SD will be happy to clarify this and make me wiser. I think of all the children who are one to three years old and all the six-year-olds. How have the Swedish Democrats found out that it is only three to five year olds who will attend preschool and then bring this with them for the rest of their lives? You also need to ask SD if segregation exists. How are they going to handle it? The state, the municipality, civil society and the business community must go in the same direction. It is unreasonable for public services to be reduced in socially vulnerable areas, while the municipality and other actors have identified greater needs for the presence of society. Madam President, I would like Against this background, the Social Democratic led government presented in 2016 a reform programme for 2017 – 2025. It was aimed at reducing segregation and lifting the socially vulnerable areas. It was the first of its kind and shows that we take the problem very seriously. What does the program contain? Well, it focuses on five areas: To this work, the government has allocated SEK 2.2 billion annually from 2020 to 2027 to reduce segregation in Sweden. My municipality of residence Botkyrka is 1 out of 32 municipalities that receive money from the government to reduce segregation over a ten-year period. I know that municipalities are central players in the work against segregation. Many municipalities, like my municipality of residence, are already actively and strategically working towards segregation and greater equality. It is mainly about various social and labour market measures that help to lift people through jobs and education. With additional government resources, municipalities can develop their work. Madam President, I would like There is – to use Prime Minister Stefan Lövven's words – no quick fix to reduce segregation, but this is a work that needs to be done thoroughly to get to all that contributes to increased divides in our society. However, with the help of the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and Christian Democrats want to phase out this work and reduce efforts towards segregation in our country. For me, it is absolutely unbelievable that these parties talk about security when they take away from their budget the greatest targeted effort to get to grips with and prevent future insecurity and combat segregation. Segregation is not just a budget line. It is about people and their opportunities to participate in society and to build their lives. It is about children with the whole future ahead of them, but criminal forces, like predators, are waiting for the right time to bring the children with them. We must take this very seriously, combat and deal with. Madam President, I would like I think it is irresponsible to phase out support for socio-economically vulnerable areas designed to strengthen the long-term work of municipalities, such as early intervention for children and young people, investment in education, increased security and employment, and efforts to strengthen democracy and civil society. Madam President, I would like Finally, we need to give hope and confidence in the future – as was said earlier here in the speaker's chair, and I would like to emphasise that – to all the young people who are growing up in poverty, to those who are outside the labour market and to those who are excluded from housing and education because of narrow-mindedness. We must combat discrimination and racism in society and in the labour market seriously. I therefore do not believe that the solution is a reduction in taxes.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1141	Madam President, I would like The Equality Authority has become a bat in the debate, as if an authority is the only correct answer to the question of whether or not to have an equal society. The Center Party does not support the budget reservation of Moderates and Christian Democrats. Nor do we support the government's establishment of the Equality Agency. When the government decided in 2016 that a new gender equality agency would be established, Statskontoret submitted proposals for how strategic, clear and sustainable governance, organisation and responsibility sharing could be achieved regarding the national assignments that the National Board of Health and Welfare, the County Administrative Board of Stockholm and the County Administrative Board of Östergötland County had in the interim target area of violence against women. Statskontoret assessed that there were several risks involved in changing the organisation and the division of responsibilities for the tasks of the relevant authorities, such as reduced productivity and efficiency. There was an imminent risk that skills would be lost and that forms of cooperation would have to be rebuilt. In the review, there was no indication that the benefits of a change in responsibility for the issues would outweigh the risks. The Government did not follow Statskontoret's analysis and proposals at all. It takes time to build up expertise and to establish collaboration and networks between authorities. There are therefore strong reasons for a government to take advantage of the skills, forms of collaboration and structures of knowledge dissemination that have been built up over the past 10 or up to 25 years in existing organisations. The Center Party therefore agreed with Statskontoret's conclusion. At the time of the introduction, the government did not listen to its own authority regarding the risks taken. In addition, by not anchoring and shaping the proposal broadly, an approach that has benefited gender equality issues for decades was abandoned. I tried, through talks in committees and other meetings, with interpellations in this House and articles, to get the Minister not to tear down the activities that worked but instead to build on what already existed and to supplement with strategic responsibility for the other gender equality objectives in other already existing authorities. Historically, the women's movement has been good at anchoring widely so that the work does not become politicised and disappears at changed majorities. Unfortunately, the minister responsible at the time did not listen, did not adjust the proposal and they did not anchor it broadly. Madam President, I would like What about it? The Director-General of the Authority visited us in committee a while ago. What was presented was work done or carried out on other units, with the difference that the Equality Agency takes credit for the work that other units do. This applies, for example, to the County Administrative Board in Stockholm County's work against prostitution and trafficking, which has been moved, the gender secretariat's work on gender equality within the authorities, which has been moved, and the National Centre for Women's Peace's work, which, however, has not been moved but decimated. The other gender equality policy objectives were not touched upon in the presentation of the Director-General to us in committee. There's still nothing happening. Where, then, is the added value? The Director-General described the agency's work in that our operations can be likened to the construction of the aircraft while we fly. Responsibility for this cannot be placed on the authority; it is, of course, placed on the responsible government that has introduced it under such conditions. It is therefore an activity that according to Statskontoret delivered productivity and efficiency that has been destroyed, and nothing new has been added. In addition, the agency has been faced with a number of other problems such as the risk of over 70% of employees in the new agency becoming ill from the job, according to an internal survey. There are shortcomings in the management, says the trade union ST. We in the Center Party are not satisfied with the fact that the agency was set up, nor with the Authority's flight so far. Madam President, I would like What does the Center Party want to see instead? In the past, there was no coherent responsibility for the achievement and follow-up of gender equality policy objectives. That responsibility needed to be clarified. So far, the Center Party agreed and agrees with the analysis. We believe, however, that the work on gender equality should be integrated into all authorities with a clearly stated responsibility and clear milestones linked to the gender equality policy objectives, formulated by the responsible ministry. The Center Party does not want to introduce another authority, but instead integrates the work and responsibility into existing authorities, not into the new Equality Authority. It shall be made visible and accountable in all parts of the State's activities. Much should be added, for example, to the Swedish Work Environment Authority. Madam President, I would like The Mediation Institute could be appropriate as responsible for the objective of economic equality. Similarly, responsibility for the various sub-objectives should be put in place where work on the sub-objectives is under way. There will then be another weight in the work that needs to be done. The work that the government was trying to move over or wing clipping through the creation of the new authority is to be restored. These include the important tasks of the National Centre for Women's Peace as a competence and resource centre for the goal of violence. We believe that this work and responsibility should be extended. We also want to see if it is possible to restore and permanent the County Administrative Board in Stockholm County's previous mission against prostitution and trafficking and to permanently and develop the County Administrative Board in Östergötland County's national mission to prevent honour-related violence and oppression. With such a structure, we believe in better and faster results for gender equality, even though none of the participating authorities have gender equality in their name. Madam President, I would like Inequality is present throughout life, throughout society. Pupils are limited by traditional gender standards in study and professional choices. Power and influence are unevenly distributed between the sexes, and we have gender differences in pay and career. Unpaid work, lower living income and thus pensions, social vulnerability, sick leave and suicide – the consequences differ, but in common, inequality costs. In order for the gender equality policy objectives to be achieved, we need to work in a structured way to integrate gender equality into all agencies' missions. Equality must become part of their regular work. As the Centre Party's budgetary options fell into the framework decision and the budgetary decisions are based on a coherent alternative, the Centre Party abstains from the decisions relating to the allocation of appropriations, not only in this part but in all areas of expenditure.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1159	Madam President, I would like I did not think that I would experience the setback that it means closing down the Equality Agency because active gender equality work can be carried out in many different places within agencies, universities and so on. Then nothing has been learned from history. There is a need for a blowtorch in this area – someone who ensures that the work is carried out actively in the different places, because it is for the grounds of discrimination equality that for the others: many are not aware of how to deal with gender issues, as in this case, i.e. relations between women and men. We have seen the need in an earlier turn. Gender equality work and women's power and influence grew up a hundred years ago, when we got the right to vote, until World War II. Then it stopped during the war, and during the 50's we got the housefruideal. Then there was anger that the work stopped. It was Group 8, and it was doctors and dentists who joined together in many different groups who said that now something had to be done. An idea emerged that we must have legislation. The Equality Act, for which liberals Gabriel Romanus and Karin Ahrland were the main drivers, came in 1980. However, it was seen that in order for the law to really have an effect, one must have a central institution – the Equality Ombudsman. The first was Inga-Britt-Törnell Törnell, who worked actively here for seven years. Among other things, the previously reprehensible gender research had a flowering period. It was important to see why it was so unequal between women and men. There were invisible structures in health care and all sectors that were behind it. Then we got a change in the legislation in 2009. We were given the Non-Discrimination Act, which would cover all the grounds for discrimination. However, the Equality Ombudsman did not get the muscles needed to clarify the importance of driving the work forward, not only in the field of gender equality but also for the other grounds of discrimination. This is what is behind the need to create a gender equality authority. Although I was critical of some tasks from the National Centre for Women's Peace being brought in there, I was not critical of the idea. The agency has now been operating for just under a year. Yes, it has faced opposition and difficulties, but I have no doubt that these can be resolved. I think it is wrong to phase out the Equality Agency, which we need as a blowtorch for gender equality work to proceed in all areas and in all sectors of society. This morning at the latest, the Swedish National Audit Office's report, which further underlines the need to strengthen integration efforts. We have an authority that can do this.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1165	Madam President, I would like Almost a year ago, we met in this House for a metoo debate. We discussed on the basis of the fact that inequality in our country had become brutally visible and what we could do together to change it. It was a very committed and unusually coherent debate that we should not let go of gender issues but continue to work towards greater equality together. We did so during the following year. In broad agreement, we adopted a new sexual crime law based on consent, and on 1 January a new expert agency for gender equality was launched. Some 50 people work there today. It is police, sociologists, journalists and prosecutors – a wide range of skills that are in the process of building a work for greater gender equality. It's an important thing. Since the Swedish gender equality policy, as Barbro Westerholm described, entered its second phase and in the 1970s began to work actively, there has been a constant Achilles heel, and there has been a lack of endurance. Temporary projects and initiatives have replaced each other. A permanent expert authority can resolve this. I speak from my own experience, because as a minister of an alliance government, I have been responsible for coordinating, monitoring and inspiring ministries and authorities and pushing through an issue that nobody has on the top of the agenda. It doesn't matter what authority or department it is: it's always something else that's more important. For me, this is, as Barbro said, denying what we have learned. Gender equality is very much about commitment but also about knowledge, research, methods, follow-up and goals. In what other area do we all support a number of very important goals that no one follows up and checks? For the Liberals, it is a major setback when we see that this expert authority is threatened with suffocation in its infancy. I also think it is worth pointing out that we have received a receipt from those we represent that equal opportunities issues are very important. In the last election poll conducted during the September elections, gender equality as one of the most important issues has climbed by 10 percentage points and is in third place. I and the Liberals think that when Parliament now takes a decision that means that the agency is being shut down, it will be a very clear signal in our country, outside our country and to our voters that we are lowering our ambitions in the area of gender equality. I would like to emphasise that what we have done so far has been good, but it has not been enough. It has not been coordinated, and there has been no structure. There are amazing activities, and many have mentioned them. It was an important thing for us in the Liberals when the agency was formed that the national competence team for the work against honour-related violence and oppression at the County Administrative Board in Östergötland would remain. We see great opportunities in perpetuating it. We have dedicated resources to this work. There are many other activities that are not in opposition to a gender equality authority. It is not that we need to do as much or less. We need to do more, and we need to do it better and more structured. The Liberals will continue to work to change the deeply unfortunate parliamentary decision to close the Equality Agency.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1174	Madam President, I would like I'm so tired. What am I tired of? I am not tired of sleeping poorly, but I am actually tired of listening to the Left Party, the Green Party and the Social Democrats. They constantly portray themselves as the good ones and as those who stand for equality. And those who are very ill-advised are apparently us Moderates. As has come to light in this debate, it is rather like we want to put an end to all gender equality policies at all. That is, of course, completely wrong. I can take as an example crimes against women. We will invest SEK 2 billion more next year in the judiciary, and most of it goes to the police. Why? Yes, it does because rape investigations are being piled up. It is not equal that rape victims have to wait for the rapes to be investigated. It's so long that evidence disappears, and you have to write off investigations. Before I entered the Riksdag, I worked 30 years as a police officer in Gothenburg. I've investigated felonies, and I've investigated crimes against children. There were a great many immigrant women who were abused and subjected to severe women's poverty in their homes. The sad thing was that some had been in Sweden for 10 to 20 years, but they didn't know Swedish. It's a real women's trap to not know Swedish. We have suggestions that you should learn Swedish faster. In addition to this, we want to increase the penalties for rape in the area of the normal rate of rape and for serious women's restrictions. We want to use a ban on contact with anklets more often. For example, the Left Party did not want that when we took a decision last parliamentary term. They felt more sorry for the offender, and this would restrict his freedom. We want to criminalise moral police officers, we want specially trained police officers on honour crimes and on violence against women. We want to remove the quantity discount. If someone commits three rapes, there will be full punishment for the first. Then you get the discount already at the second, and at the third it is almost free. We think that's crazy. We want full punishment for the three major crimes. Then sexual crimes have increased very much. It has also come to light in various investigations that there are very many foreign men who are guilty of sexual crimes. We want more of them expelled. I also note that we are talking a little scornfully about the RUT deduction, much like it is only the rich who use it. But who's getting these RUT jobs? Well, it's often immigrant women who don't have education and don't know the language. It is their chance to get out into work, earn their own money and learn Swedish. Then they have a much greater chance of leaving a violent home where they are beaten. This is a real gender equality policy. So don't talk disdainfully about RUT deductions! It is they who really need the jobs that get these jobs, and it is equality for real.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1180	Madam President, I would like We are now debating Category 22 Communications in the draft state budget. This is an important area of expenditure with expenditure of nearly SEK 60 billion. It is about important efforts to make the communications in our country work. Not least, it is about investments in a sustainable transport sector that will enable us to meet our climate targets, in particular the target of reducing emissions from the transport sector by at least 70% by 2030. At present, we are a long way from this goal. The Finnish Transport Agency estimates that we need to reduce our emissions by 8 percent annually in order to reach the target. At present, we are reducing emissions by just 2%. This is an important objective, as transport accounts for about one third of Sweden's total emissions. This is important, because the world's climate experts have again noted that reducing emissions is a matter of great urgency if we are to keep the increase in global warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius. We must reduce emissions for the sake of our children and grandchildren. But it is quite possible to achieve our climate goals in the field of transport. In this area of expenditure, for example, it is a matter of making public transport cheaper and better, and of shifting freight transport from road to rail and shipping. We also need to increase the number of passenger transport services on the railways. We need to invest more in both new rail and maintenance of existing ones. We need to build high-speed lines and connect our Swedish railway lines with the European ones. We need to give SJ new owner directives, where they are required to drive night trains to the continent and provide foreign tickets. A one-sided profit focus also needs to be replaced with focus on driving more trains at reasonable fares. The market experiment in railway maintenance must end. The aim shall be to obtain a Swiss-class railway in terms of punctuality, service and frequency. This, of course, will cost. However, it can be financed, including through an increase in air taxes and charges on long-distance truck transport. We also need to see cycling as a mode of transport, where bicycle infrastructure is expanded into coherent networks. More bicycle parking and loan cycle systems are needed, and the bike should be included on the train. Our passenger car fleet needs electrification. That is why we in the Left Party want a ban on the sale of new cars powered by fossil fuels. Overall, the car norm must be broken. The Left Party does not want new expensive motorways to be built that increase motorism and emissions. Our cities must be planned for walking, cycling, public transport, not according to the needs of the car. Biofuels will be needed mainly for heavy transport. But here too electrification will be necessary. More investment also needs to be made to create sustainable shipping with more sustainable fuels. These are just a few examples of issues that fall under the area of expenditure that we are now debating. The draft budget presented by the transitional government does not fully live up to the reforms that we in the Left Party consider necessary. However, we in the Left Party stand behind the transitional government's budget as the only reasonable thing in the current situation, where a transitional government governs until we have a new government in place. What has now happened, however, is that last week the Swedish Democrats and the Moderate and Christian Democrats hurriedly wrapped up budget reservation was voted through with the support of the Swedish Democrats. This is a 28-page hazelnut, which can be compared to the transitional government's budget of about 3 800 pages if we count on all the annexes. Due to its political content, the budget reservation of the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats has rightly been appointed a disaster budget. The Moderates, KD and SD reduce taxes for already wealthy by SEK 20 billion. This is financed by draconian cuts to the unemployed, biodiversity, climate investments, solar cells and electric vehicles, withdrawal of support for the construction of climate-smart rentals, increased costs for children who want to attend cultural school, withdrawn free admission to our museums and – as we heard in the previous debate – the closure of the Equality Agency. Yes, these are just a few examples of the consequences of this budget reservation. M, KD and SD! Why should tax cuts for the richest be financed by reductions in children, the unemployed and climate change? More specifically, we are dealing with cuts of SEK 489 million. It concerns reductions in public transport in rural areas, reduced road maintenance in Gotland and less money for the Finnish Transport Agency and the Swedish Transport Agency. In our area of expenditure we also find the reference to the aviation tax abolished by M, KD and SD. The Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats! What planet are you living on? In the midst of a burning climate crisis, abolishing air tax without other alternatives is like pouring gasoline on the fire. Why are you doing that? However, the most significant deterioration in this area of expenditure is that M, KD and SD halt the highly appreciated effort on free public transport for children and young people during the summer holidays. I myself have met many young people who have proudly waved their SL card – the public transport card is called this way in Stockholm – and then step on the commuter train to the beach with their friends or take the bus to football practice. I think that being able to move freely in public transport is ultimately a question of democracy and justice. The size of the wallet should not determine whether you should be able to go with your friends and swim or go to practice. An increase in public transport is also an environmental issue. The more we get used to travelling collectively, the more they will do so in the future. Emissions are also saved when young people can travel on public transport themselves instead of being driven and picked up by driving parents. Jessica Rosencrantz, Magnus Jacobsson and Jimmy Ståhl – The Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats! Why should not all young people have the same opportunity to travel on public transport? Why are you damaging the environment? Why do you make summer baths a class question? There is another important commentary on the budget that is now being voted through, and it concerns the form in which the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats are now acting. The whole thing could be likened to a football game: We have two teams, and the game will begin at three o'clock in the afternoon. Suddenly one team appears 15 minutes early, runs out on the field and kicks in a number of goals. That is exactly the case with the M-KD-SD budget reservation. After all, we have certain rules of procedure, i.e. principles for the development of the transitional budget, on which our seven parties agree. However, as soon as they can choose M, KD and SD to violate these rules. M and KD have left a joint budget reservation that is full of new policies – contrary to the agreement we have between the parties. In other words, they run out on the football field 15 minutes early and start the game without an opponent. The other team, i.e. the red-green majority, must not even fail this cheating game. Stefan Löfven and his government must not even resign. The Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats believe that the transitional government should administer their budget cutbacks. Jessica Rosencrantz, Magnus Jacobsson and Jimmy Ståhl! What is fair play in this? I am especially addressing you, Jessica Rosencrantz, and the Moderates. You Moderates are the great loser of the election. You lost 170,000 votes. You're the smaller block. You are incapable of forming a government. Yet you want to force Stefan Löfven to lower taxes for the richest, kick the sick and unemployed, abolish air tax, remove free public transport, halve climate investments and close the Equality Agency overnight. Is that how you're the grown-up in the room, Jessica Rosencrantz? Feel free to answer that. Madam President, I would like I shall conclude my speech. Of course, the reasonable thing would have been to wait for a new government. Then the political parties could present their economic policy as either a government leader, a negotiating party or an opposition. I very much regret that the committee is now proposing to reduce several important appropriations in relation to the transitional government's proposals. This means a lower level of ambition for our spending area and making it more difficult to achieve our important objectives. This applies not least to the possibility of reaching the sector target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 70% by 2030. I regret that Sweden now has a budget that is completely irresponsible in terms of both form and content. For this reason, the Left Party does not take part in the decision on this expenditure area. I refer to our special opinion, which we have together with the Social Democrats and the Green Party, and I call for the Centre Party's reservation to be rejected in the report.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1198	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for what I might not call questions but possibly attacks! There were very high notes here from Jens Holm – and some crocodile tears, I can say too. Nevertheless, I find reason to go up and respond to some of them. To begin with, I can say that it is rather strange to say that there are cuts at Trafikverket and Transportstyrelsen when Jens Holm is hopefully aware that this is a consequence of the fact that the budget bill has extended some efforts that would not otherwise have been extended in 2019. We are simply making those adjustments in accordance with the principles behind the transitional budget. My second point is free public transport for young people during the summer. We do not think it is a accurate way to help families with low incomes. What we are doing, however, is, for example, the reintroduction of leisure allowances to households with financial assistance, in order to ensure that these children receive additional allowances in order to be able to have the same opportunities as other children. These are therefore more specific and accurate actions. We are also lowering the tax on labour, which I am proud of, so that more people – and certainly not just high income earners, as Jens Holm suggests – can make money by working and gaining more economic freedom. As far as public transport for young people is concerned, I will also say that we are giving the county councils 1.5 billion in state subsidies. It is therefore up to each county council to continue to give priority to this reform, if it is the free public transport system that is being pursued. It is therefore 1.5 billion in general contributions to the county councils, and there is every possibility of continuing this effort.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1202	Madam President, I would like Thank you for those comments, Jessica Rosencrantz! It is undeniable that your tax cuts primarily benefit high-income earners; the so-called job tax credit has the effect that the more money you earn, the greater the deductions you get and the more money you get left in your wallet. It is also the case that those who do not have a job – those who are sick or unemployed – are the really big losers. Because they are not getting any money left in their wallets with your policy; they are only getting worse. I think that free public transport for children and young people was a fantastic reform that tied up the red, that is, justice, with the green, that is, the environmental and climate transition. So many young people have testified that there has been a reform of freedom for them. I am thinking, for example, of Iman Amiri, who is 15 years old and comes from Flemingsberg. She said this to the paper in the middle of how the reform worked for her: You can go out with your friends, go swimming if it's hot, into town, go bowling. It is also good for those who work for the summer. ..................................................... Iman Amiri lives in Flemingsberg, Stockholm County. I note that it was the moderator there who was involved in introducing this free public transport service for children and young people, which was financed by government money. I have to ask: why should you make it difficult for Iman and other young people to move freely in the Stockholm region and all other regions in Sweden just to save 350 million SEK?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1206	Madam President, I would like With the risk of repeating me, there is still all the possibilities for county councils around Sweden to offer free public transport for young people during the summer, as we provide large general contributions to county councils of 1.5 billion. So there is every possibility for Jens Holm to raise this issue with his party colleagues or, for example, the Green Party, which is in charge here in Stockholm County, and address the question to them if they consider it to be a priority action in Stockholm County. But what we are also doing, as I said and which I think is more accurate policy, is targeting our resources at the most vulnerable – at families with children, with low incomes or with financial assistance. For example, we now reintroduce a leisure allowance and extend it to include summer holiday activities. I think that's accurate politics for real.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1208	Madam President, I would like I note that if the ma n lowers taxes by about SEK 20 billion, as the Moderates, the KD and the Swedish Democrats do with this budget, there is unfortunately a lot that cannot be affordable. There will be draconian cuts in the environmental budget – we heard that debate yesterday. There will also be large reductions for the unemployed. As we can see in this area of expenditure, you cannot even afford to finance free public transport for our children and young people during the summer. This is a fantastic reform of freedom that allows young people to move much freer and be independent of parents who otherwise have to be driven and picked up. In addition, we establish a relationship and a habit of travelling collectively, which is hopefully something that you have with you when you grow up. So it is also a major environmental reform that you are now unfortunately slaughtering with your budget reservation. I'm sorry about that.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1210	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report of the Committee on Transport and Tourism 1. You know that the budget proposal submitted to Parliament on 15 November was decided by the transitional government. We developed special principles together with seven of the eight parties in the Riksdag. We Social Democrats have taken responsibility and continue to take responsibility for this administratively correct budget while awaiting the budget of reforms that will be presented when Sweden has a new effective government. I thought that other parties would take the same responsibility, but after the Parliament had supported other spending frameworks than those proposed by the transitional government, we are abstaining from the position on the allocation of appropriations in Category 22 and are instead giving a specific opinion in the report. Madam President, I would like People should be able to live and work throughout our country. The fact that we can transport wealth that exists around the country is a prerequisite for the Swedish economy to work, and being able to get safely, safely and in time to work or to school is equally important. That is why, in addition to the infrastructure plan in force at the time, we made additional investments in rail and road maintenance during the last parliamentary term. Therefore we bet so that the night train now goes to Jämtland every night. Madam President and everyone else, you are most welcome. Therefore, billions were invested in broadband expansion. A new target was also set for the whole country to have access to broadband. We know that access to this is as important as electricity and water for our companies, for our health care, for our school and for you and me, whether we live in sparsely populated areas or in urban areas. That is why we introduced a tonnage tax for competitive and sustainable shipping, and now we can finally see an increase in flagging. That's why we invested in decent conditions in the transport industry. We introduced a sanctioning fee for those road haulage companies that violate the cabotage rules as well as higher fines for infringements of driving and rest periods. We have made it possible for the police to lock the wheels of trucks – what is called ‘sticking' – and to seize vehicle keys and registration plates to prevent further travel unless the penalty fee is paid or if the truck is in unserviceable condition. Now our Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth, together with the transport ministers in the EU, has agreed on further tightening up. It is about that trucks must stay outside Sweden for at least five days before they can drive new cabotage transports in Sweden. These are new smart tachographs that will be introduced to ensure more effective controls. Under the new rules, weekly rest is not allowed in the vehicle and, in addition, the exemption for combined transport is removed. All of this is really important in order to create order and competitiveness in the transport sector. That is why we have also invested in road safety and decided on, for example, automated sobriety checks – what we call alco-bommers – which will be introduced in ports to reduce drunk driving in traffic. Furthermore, we have introduced winter tyre requirements on all trucks' wheels when winter road legislation prevails. This applies to both Swedish and foreign combinations that drive on Swedish roads. We have imposed a ban on talking or surfing with your mobile phone in your hand while driving. During these four years, we have also invested in many more areas. Madam President, I would like We have a great challenge, and it is urgent. It's about our climate. The transport sector accounts for one third of Sweden's emissions, which we in this Parliament have decided will decrease by 70 percent by 2030. Strong reforms are needed to make Sweden one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. Positive things have happened around the country, not least thanks to the government's implementation of the urban environment agreements and climate change, which means a major effort on public transport, bicycle and charging poles. Last time we had a climate investment programme, i.e. before the bourgeois government took over in 2006 and closed it, we invested in Jämtland in charging infrastructure. We then continued to do so, and it was the longest road that had charging infrastructure. It's called Green Highway and goes between Sundsvall and Trondheim. Madam President, I would like It is really smart policy to support local authorities' initiatives. In order to change Sweden, the government has listened and made major structural efforts aimed at both industry and the transport sector. The change of fuel is an important instrument that is about gradually replacing petrol and diesel in the tank with sustainable fuels, such as biofuels. I can also point to the electric road test in Sandviken or Autopiloten in Kista, with fully automated and electrified minibuses in public traffic. We see the flagship Viking Grace, which operates in Turku, Åland and Stockholm and is powered by both LNG and wind power. In Öresund, the world's first battery-powered ferry line in international traffic has just been inaugurated. We have also made a great, wonderful and important decision, namely that the infrastructure plan for 2018 – 2029 contains SEK 100 000 million more than the bourgeois government took with it. Of course – it actually took a lot. We have gone from taking over the deficit of 60 billion left by the bourgeois government after borrowing money for tax cuts to now having room for reform as well as infrastructure efforts. But after four years with a Social Democratic and Environmental Party government, Sweden has until now – for the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats, with the support of the Swedish Democrats, has not yet begun to operate – order and order the state finances. We have the lowest public debt since the 1970s. We have had the highest level of employment in Europe. We have had a high rate of housing construction, an increasing export and a school result that has finally turned upwards. There are 100,000 more people employed in welfare and 300,000 more going to work. There is now a large surplus to invest in reforms to build the whole of Sweden stronger. For us Social Democrats, the starting point is that what we do we will do to connect the country from Abisko to Österlen by building Norrbotniabanan and building more tracks between flats on Arlöv. We want to make efforts that strengthen our competitiveness with clear business policy priorities, but above all we want us to meet the challenge that we signed through the Paris Agreement. Madam President, I would like Consider my surprise when, together with the Swedish Democrats last Wednesday, the Moderates and Christian Democrats voted through a budget that clearly shows that they have lower ambitions in the area of infrastructure than the transitional government's administratively correct budget that must not contain reforms. You choose to give away money for free public transport for young people. It has been a highly appreciated reform. When the yellow vests in France put their finger on the fact that climate policy must be perceived as fair by all groups, the Moderates and Christian Democrats, together with the Swedish Democrats, choose to pull in on the very reform that both benefits low-income earners and steers towards a more climate-smart travel. Again, the Swedish Conservatives and Christian Democrats, together with the Swedish Democrats, go ahead of what builds a strong, sustainable and future-oriented Sweden where we stick together. Now that new reforms have been introduced for a lot of billions, there is nothing to be found in the report of the Committee on Transport and Tourism. This year's priority is to even reduce the allocation to Category 22 by a total of 489 million. Let it sink in! I would like to take this opportunity to wish the President and other members of the Committee on Transport a really good Christmas.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1238	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech, AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg! It was a bit of a will over it, I think, with all the excellent things that have happened. First Anna Johansson, then relieved by Tomas Eneroth, prepared and produced an infrastructure bill that we decided on here in the Riksdag. It was a government directive. The proposal was reviewed and decided by the Government of Löfven-Löwin-Löwin in June this year. Like the corresponding decisions taken twice before by the Alliance Government, the closure increased by just over 100 billion, so it was not exclusive to this plan, I would say, Madam President. However, as pointed out by the Finnish Transport Administration itself, the effect of the national decision adopted by the Government in June this year – the Finnish Transport Agency is the expert authority – is that it will be extremely difficult to maintain the standard on Class 5 and 6 roads. Class 5 and 6 roads are the most fine and low-traffic part of the state road network. There are very many of them in Sätherberg's constituency of Jämtland, I can tell the President. Then my question to Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg is: In what way did the transitional government meet the demands of the road uprising with several similar movements, speaking of yellow vests? How did the very legitimate demands of Jämtland and other parts of the country meet on a better road standard to maintain everyday life in the Member's home country?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1241	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Anders Åkesson, a very important question! I really live by the road networks 5 and 6. I live where the potholes are large and where maintenance is needed more than ever. You ask how we Social Democrats met this. In fact, we went to elections to spend 500 million more on rural roads from this year on, if we had been able to do so – a transitional government cannot, of course, bring forward reforms – until the end of the infrastructure plan period. We really met up with this as Social Democrats, Anders Åkesson. One interest that I think you and I really share is rural roads, accessibility and that Sweden should stick together.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1244	Madam President, I would like But, AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg, I know the potholes both in Jämtland and in Småland. In Jämtland even stumps get out of the way. You went to an election of 500 million extra dollars. A few minutes ago, AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg, you praised yourself for the huge investment of SEK 7 000 million in the latest national plan. When you had the real opportunity, not in a budget, to make a decision about a national transport plan, it was no more but less money for the fine-meshed road network with major problems, noticed by the Swedish Transport Administration. Why didn't you do anything when you sat on $7,000 million while you now promise to do something with fake money, $500 million? Answer the question!
i-BMeTVa9weVK4FLzTCb8bMQ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anders Åkesson, again! Why didn't we do anything? I think that both you and I know that there is a large maintenance debt in Sweden overall. It's been around for a very long time. I will not blame a bourgeois government. I think that all of us in this House are to blame for this. We also know that railway maintenance needs to be substantially upgraded, and that is a big investment. We added the 500 million to rural roads because we consider it extremely important that the whole infrastructure should work. I think that both you and I and everyone else here would wish there was more money for infrastructure than we see in the infrastructure plan.
i-BhTtZXjEgwELyKDVfaW44T	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs Anna-Anna-Caren, for your speech. I must say, however, that I am a little surprised when I hear this fire speech in order to protect Swedish countryside. When you look a little closer at the policy that the Red-Green Government has been pursuing in the field of transport over the past four years, you can quite quickly see that huge increases in fuel taxes and a national aviation tax are rather things that have made things more difficult for people and companies in Swedish rural areas. The Alliance government left behind an in-depth investigation into heavier trucks that could make the forestry industry and other transports around Sweden more efficient. It took a very long time for the Red-Green Government to proceed with the investigation, which suggested things that could also have made it easier for rural businesses and, for example, the forestry industry, which is so important to produce more biofuels. How, I wonder, Madam President, can it be said that the Red-Green Government has pursued a rural-friendly policy? Instead of introducing smart instruments for aviation, for example, requiring the inclusion of biofuels, it has chosen to impose a general penalty tax on those who choose to fly – without climate control in the measures. Madam President, I would like I genuinely wonder how one can claim that this is a rural-friendly policy.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1252	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessica, for the question! After all, I was on the parliamentary rural committee. The Social Democrats were the only party that had any member living north of the Dalälven River, and that was me. There, we reached a consensus on many things, such as service offices that are now being expanded, such as ending the urban fixation and moving both government agencies and government jobs out of Stockholm – it is at least 2,000 that have been relocated now. In addition, we agreed on extra money for rural public transport, extra money that this whole term of office has gone to rural roads and railways and to the sparsely populated trade so that you can keep your trade in sparsely populated areas. I do not know where Jessica was during the last parliamentary term, but if it is something that has started to turn around, it is rural policy. In the Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development, we fully agreed that the travel allowance needed to be changed in order to be more accurate for those who have the distances we have in rural areas. But the next day the group leader of the Moderates said that it was not possible because the change would mean that only the distance meant something and not the time, although we know that the travel allowance due to its design largely ends up in Stockholm. My question to Jessica Rosencrantz is therefore: should we continue to have a travel deduction system that does not benefit travellers and which punishes those of us who live in rural areas?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1256	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Sätherberg for the questions. I believe that there is every reason to review the travel allowance, but then, of course, it should be done in such a way that we still ensure that there are reasonable opportunities for people with long distances and long travel times to get to and from work. But the first thing about the travel allowance is that the Swedish Tax Agency estimates that even with the current system it is cheated for up to SEK 1 billion annually. Our first message on this issue is to ensure that those entitled to the deduction will be deducted and that there will be no cheating. I'm still a little curious, AnnaAnna-Caren. Does rising taxes on petrol and diesel, which increase more than inflation each year, make it easier or more difficult for people to live in Swedish rural areas?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1260	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessica. In the countryside we love the car but not the petrol. It is therefore important that the travel allowance is designed more for those of us who live in the countryside and who have a large distance and have to drive far and not for those who want to drive a short distance in Stockholm to reduce the time. That is the difference, and that is why the study on the travel allowance, which I hope we will decide on in this House when it is ready, is very important to us in rural areas.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1262	Madam President, I would like I, too, was a little surprised when I listened to Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg's account of the situation in the kingdom. I grew up near the countryside myself. Uddevalla is not a large municipality, and in most municipalities around us all depend on vehicles. About 82 percent of those who come to Uddevalla city centre travel by car. And to describe the kingdom as almost the kingdom of heaven, I must say as a Christian Democrat, becomes a bit difficult with regard to fuel taxes and other things. I am also surprised by the general debate on economic policy. 350 million in bus cards is money. 100 million in cultural money is also money. But why do you not mention the EUR 100 million in leisure money we provide, or the EUR 3.5 billion we give in free money to the municipalities? I'm an old municipal politician, and if it's something we don't like, it's pointed money. Now the municipalities get 3.5 billion in free money, and then they can meet the needs they feel to meet. As far as our budget is concerned, that is correct. We don't point with a lot of money here, and that's because they fall into other places. Research gets 300 million, and charging poles, to develop and deploy technology neutral, receives 250 million. As far as fuel is concerned – a debate that we will certainly have again, and I will talk about it in my speech – we are spending 100 million on research so that environmentally friendly fuels can be used more easily. So we do things in this area too. Above all, however, I am surprised by the rosy description of reality. I am not sure that all voters in line in the healthcare sector share this view.
i-9kSYu2S83GYMvSHEHi6qq7	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Jacobsson! There are, of course, major challenges, and health care is one of them. But you do not get medical care because you introduce a job tax deduction of SEK 10 billion or increase the cut-off point one by SEK 5 billion. That's not what's gonna fix the medical system. In terms of free public transport, I intend to tell Magnus Jacobsson that in 2010 I wrote a motion to the City Council of Åre, and in January 2012 a free annual card was introduced for children between 6 and 19 years of age. Why was it done? Well, not to give some a little extracurricular money, but to teach everyone to travel collectively and climate smartly. One result was that the parents started riding with the children instead of taking the car. At the same time, it was a major reform of freedom. The children could suddenly go around the municipality and go to hockey school and riding school and ski, which we all love, or do other things. So it was a reform of freedom, but of course it was also a reform of change, because we realised that we cannot have all these cars on the road without having to organise public transport instead. The government's contribution was 350 million, and you are making tax cuts of 20,000 million. Why are you prioritising such a reform completely different from that of a united city council in Åre?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1271	Madam President, I would like I have to admit, I'm a little surprised at Åre. Does Anna-Caren Sätherberg really mean that everyone in Åre could use public transport? It is great to make reforms that benefit those who live where public transport goes. But we Christian Democrats believe that a policy should be pursued that allows everyone to make use of the reforms. You're kidding me a little disdainfully about your free time money, but I know kids in my community who can barely afford to buy tennis shoes. Having a leisure card so that they can attend football or hockey training is at least as important as being able to ride a bus. I am absolutely convinced that when Sver ige's municipal politicians now receive 3.5 billion, they will strike a balance based on what their municipalities look like. I am not entirely sure that the Åre model would work in Uddevalla, but I know that free capital that the municipality and citizens can use together gives freedom. That is why we are going to lower taxes for people so that they can do what they want and give more money to the municipalities so that they can support in the best way.
i-6CDE6RnJWqp1g5VY1ypVU2	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Jacobsson! I didn't mean to be mocking, but I meant that an effort on free public transport to all young people is steering towards a different behavior. It's both climate smart and fair. Magnus Jacobsson said that Sweden's 290 municipalities receive 3.5 billion. We have not seen the whole budget yet, but if I understand correctly, money is deducted for other special-destined state subsidies. I therefore wonder how much additional resources Sweden's 290 municipalities actually get with the budget that the Moderates and Christian Democrats, supported by the Swedish Democrats, have voted through in the Swedish Parliament.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1276	Madam President, I would like Since, at the first stage of the budgetary process, the majority of Parliament has given a different direction to budgetary policy than we wish, we are abstaining from taking a position on the allocation of appropriations in Category 22 and are referring to our specific opinion. Madam President, I would like The Swedish democrats have invested heavily in the infrastructure. Unfortunately, our budget did not win the vote. Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to talk a little about the efforts we Swedish democrats had made if our budget had won in this House. There are questions that face daily: Where am I? Where am I going? How do I get there? Getting where you want and getting on time should only work. More recently, these issues have become increasingly topical for citizens. Never before has there been so much talk about infrastructure as today. People don't trust that they'll get there in time. Unfortunately, it is often the case that transport is delayed and connections do not work, which causes a great deal of trouble. It is important to think about the whole thing when talking about infrastructure. By total, I mean both freight and passenger traffic and how to carry something from point A to point Ö. Unfortunately, there are some who look in the drainpipes and concentrate on a traffic team. Then you miss the whole of the infrastructure. A trip can start by going to the bus that takes you to the train, flight or perhaps a cruise ship. Once there, it is likely that another bus, taxi, metro or something else will take you to the final destination. The whole chain has to work. The same is true of freight transport, which often starts at a factory. The goods are loaded onto a truck or train, driven out to a port, carried on a ship to another port, and then perhaps loaded onto a train or a truck to be driven to a factory or shop. Madam President, I would like I thought I'd focus deeper on shipping. With that, the infrastructure will be more complete. My colleagues will talk about road traffic, rail and air transport later. Now a deep dive into shipping, which has been heavy for a long time! It is now time to give the shipping a little flow. The Swedish Democrats have invested heavily in shipping to make it competitive. Strengthening shipping and maritime infrastructure creates greater opportunities for goods to be moved from the hard-to-use roads and the heavily burdened railways. What is striking is that we are not using inland waterways to carry goods. Along the coasts we have 50 ports, and most live near the water. Why don't we use them? The water is there — no strangeness! The harbours are there – there are no strange things there either! What, then, is it that prevents us from carrying more goods on the water? It is good for the environment, it does not shut down the roads and you can load huge quantities of goods on every ship. In fact, it is a mystery to me that no more cargo is carried by sea. Seafaring is not just larger ships sailing across the oceans or the lovely cruise ships serving our neighboring neighbours. We can be so much better at using shipping, and that is what the Swedish Democrats are fighting for. In 2014, the opportunity was given to operate on inland waterways, which can relieve road traffic by approximately 50 000 lorries annually on the route between Lake Vänern and Gothenburg. What has happened since then? Almost nothing at all. Why is that? Is that an unwillingness from the government? I don't want to believe it, given the profits we get from increased traffic at sea. What we know is that the fees are far too high. Inland waterways should not be subject to charges at all. Then you would get this traffic started. Getting coastal traffic started with freight is another possibility that is also held back by charges. Given the long coastline Sweden has, there are enormous opportunities to carry goods by sea. The problem today is that the Swedish Maritime Administration has a charging model that hits shipping hard. To save money, shipping companies build larger ships, generating fewer calls to Swedish ports. This in turn gives less income to the Swedish Maritime Administration through fairway fees. In order to balance the economy, these charges are increased and small shipping companies find it difficult to operate. Unfortunately, there will be a negative spiral where the last ship will take the full cost. The Swedish Democrats invest 1 billion annually in reducing and, in the long term, removing fairway charges. We'd like to remake the Maritime Administration's suit. The Swedish Democrats' ambition is for the Swedish Maritime Administration to be funded instead of being a business. We would also like to stress the importance of speeding up work to build new locks that enable traffic on Göta älv between Gothenburg and Vänern. In connection with this, we also want landslides to secure the river with the masses you blast to save costs, instead of doing this to two different projects. With the help of digitalisation, there are also opportunities to review how to streamline piloting and see if it is possible to use long-distance pilots on certain routes instead of physical pilots, who in all weather drive out to the ships and get up on the bridge to safely take the ships to port. The Swedish Democrats are investing 50 million in expanding the possibility for more vessels to join the tonnage tax system. We are also investing 250 million to help finance fairway depths in order to be able to receive the larger ships that are being built. The port of Gothenburg and the harbour of Luleå are two projects where it really needs to be dredged to manage to take more goods. The Swedish Democrats also have an effort to ISPS-ensure dryports, i.e. terminals that are not close to the coast but that can act as ports inside the country. There goods can be cleared and shipped as if it were out in the harbor. We also see the importance of improving municipal roads, which, among other things, lead to and from ports, in order to get better flow in the logistics chain. Through these efforts we make on shipping, the logistics chain becomes more complete. This will generate more Swedish-flagged ships, resulting in new jobs and reduced environmental impact. Madam President, I would like There are only winners of strengthening Swedish shipping.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1295	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jimmy Ståhl, for your speech! I like that you talk a lot about shipping and are passionate about that question. But when you read the Swedish Democrats' budget motion, and perhaps even more when you read your special opinion, which says about more resources for dry harbours, alco-boms, a market pot for shipping and fairway deepening, you can see that it is just what it is about. Last Wednesday you voted through a reservation written by the Moderates and Christian Democrats. There, the increase in appropriations for our area is 500 million less than in the budget of the transitional government that cannot even put reforms in its budget. There is a difference of 3 billion against the Swedish Democrats' budget motion, which says that there is an investment of 2 1⁄2 billion. You have voted through a budget which instead reduces the appropriations. Don't you need these bets? Isn't there a need? Was it more important to vote for these tax cuts – mostly to those who earn the most – than to meet the needs of the infrastructure?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1298	Madam President, I would like It is true that our budgets differ with regard to Category 22. We Swedish democrats presented their own budget which was 2 1⁄2 billion higher than the government's budget. We had an ambition, a dream, a desire for our budget to be heard in this House. When our budget fell, we had a choice. It was to let through the transitional government's budget or vote for the M-KD's. We compared these two budgets as a whole, and then the elections fell on the M-KD draft budget. Looking at the budget as a whole, we know that it is being invested in the judiciary and defence. Migration policy is closer to ours. It is invested in health care, health care and social care. It is in parity to remove the airline tax, just as is our ambition. We felt much more satisfied with the M-KD budget.
i-6xock6VWFw6XVppLERGB7U	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jimmy Ståhl, for the answer! So you are much more pleased that there will be 3 billion less infrastructure in the coming year than you would have liked. I know that the party leaders of the Swedish Democrats have clearly declared that if you are not all given influence over politics, you will not vote for a prime minister. The Moderates and the Christian Democrats know that. Is it Jimmy Ståhl's view that you have influenced the budget that you voted for that lowers your ambitions by SEK 3 billion?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1303	Madam President, I would like As far as the budgets are concerned, AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg, we felt that they were more in our line than the transitional government's budget did. Yeah, it's not on every level the same. I would have liked to have seen a much higher ambition with regard to Category 22. I'll admit it. Looking at the whole picture and how progress has been made under the rule of the Social Democrats, you can see that deadly violence has increased by 30 percent, personal robbery has increased by 100 percent, violations of the Arms Act have increased by 25 percent and sexual crimes have increased by 80 percent. There have been 44 fatal shootings so far this year. There have been 100 hand grenade explosions during the parliamentary term. We don't want that.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1305	Madam President, I would like The price you pay if you actively vote for a proposal is that you support that proposal. This is something that Jimmy Ståhl and the Swedish Democrats obviously do not want to pretend about. I listened very carefully to Jimmy Ståhl's speech. Jimmy Ståhl spoke about the big investments in shipping and other areas that the party wants to make. But the problem is, as Anna-Caren Sätherberg pointed out, that those investments do not exist. The Swedish Democrats have actively chosen to set them aside to actively support the budget reservation of the Moderates and Christian Democrats. Therefore, there is no effort on reduced fairway fees, as Ståhl talks about. There are no 250 million SEK for fairway depths. There is no extra support for municipal roads. There is no extra support for alcoboms. There is no extra support for security classified dry harbours and so on. That is all that the Swedish Democrats claim is in their proposals. You have actively voted in favour of another budget. What you have voted for is not an additional SEK 2.5 billion in spending, but a half billion cut. So it will be 3 billion less, Jimmy Ståhl, compared to your draft budget because you have actively voted on the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats. Therefore, I would like to ask Jimmy Ståhl the following: Does Jimmy Ståhl deny that Jimmy Ståhl and the Swedish Democrats actively voted for the budgetary framework of Moderates and Christian Democrats last week? Do you deny that this framework has implications for all other areas of expenditure, including our own category 22?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1310	Madam President, I would like That's right, Jens Holm. We actively voted for the M-KD budget. I'm not gonna deny that. We wanted our budget to go through. Our budget for Category 22 contains huge investments in infrastructure. Large parts lie on shipping. It is important to highlight these. If you look, for example, at Jens Holm's proposal and the government's proposal, I cannot see any major investments in shipping at all. As far as the budget is concerned, it is not just an area of expenditure. We are talking about a lot of spending areas. We do what we think is best for our voters. Comparing these two budgets, we have reasoned that when our budget fell, the budget of the M-KD was the best for our voters. We take responsibility for what our constituents want us to do. Then the M-KD budget was the best option.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1312	Madam President, I would like We understand that the Swedish Democrats like the M-KD budget reservation better. But then one must also be honest and tell us that the spending of 2.5 billion does not exist in the area of expenditure, but there are cuts of half a billion. There will be no extra road maintenance on Gotland. There will be no extra investment in public transport in rural areas. There will be cuts at Trafikverket and Transportstyrelsen, and there will be no free public transport for children and young people during the summer holidays. The Swedish democrats should be honest and tell their voters. It is the price that the Swedish Democrats are prepared to pay for financing major tax cuts for the richest. Obviously, they believe they have had a tougher migration policy. Otherwise, I do not understand why they have voted for a KD-M budget reservation. Why, Jimmy Ståhl, are you not being honest and telling your voters the truth about the politics you pursue?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1316	Madam President, I would like I can stand here proudly and say that we will have a budget that creates greater security. Hopefully we will put an end to deadly violence. We will see a strong fight against crime. Hopefully, the shootings will stop. We create security so that our older ones dare to go out. The budget must be seen as a whole. I think those who are watching this program understand that our budget did not win. I think the voters are so awake that they see what efforts we had made. In this case, I refer to the fact that we had made these efforts. If Jens Holm and his party and the Social Democrats including the Green Party had chosen to vote for our budget, we would have got a good budget.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1319	Madam President, I would like The Centre Party's budget motion against the transitional government's budget bill aims to achieve three things. First of all, Sweden must stick together. Then the labour market must be opened up to those outside. The regional rift that sets off against each other must be broken up. A well-developed and very well-maintained transport infrastructure throughout the country, and not only in spots of the country, must be created. It must be less complicated to be enterprising and to run small businesses. We all know that four out of five new jobs, which in turn bring prosperity, are being created in small businesses. Secondly, security must be real and real throughout the country. Wherever you live and wherever you work in Sweden, you must be able to feel safe. This, in turn, requires a well-being that works and delivers and exists throughout the country, and a police force and a chain of justice that can cope with both everyday crime and more serious crime. Thirdly, the green changeover must be accelerated. We all agree that Sweden should be able to set an example in environmental and climate policy. The Center Party is convinced that it is possible to combine increased growth in the country with reduced emissions and a reduced climate impact. Transport, which we are discussing in particular in this report and whose emissions are now not being reduced quickly enough, must of course be readjusted. For this reason, a green car bonus is needed for passenger cars, premiums for transport that reduce emissions and requirements for biofuel incorporation, electrification and other things for both air and heavy transport. Madam President, I would like Until a new government has taken office, Sweden is governed by a transitional government. It has now presented its transitional budget. The transitional budget has in turn been drawn up on the basis of a number of principles that have been reconciled with the parties in the Alliance. The Center Party's assessment is that the budget bill broadly reflects these principles and that the transitional government has thus acted in a manner consistent with its very limited mandate. This does not mean, however, that the budget contains the reforms that the Center Party believes the country needs so much. The budget is really just an extension of previous governments' decisions. The great need for reform in order to cope with a country that stands together, to ensure that security is built and to cope with the green transition remains. Madam President, I would like In the process we are in now in its first step of the budgetary process, Parliament has supported other spending frameworks and estimates of revenue than those proposed by the Center Party. The Centre Party therefore follows the practice and refrains from taking part in the decision on the allocation of appropriations. Instead, I choose here to describe the distribution of funding and direction of policy within our spending area, communications, as advocated in the Center Party's grant movement and the policy that the Center Party intends to pursue in the Swedish Parliament in the coming period. In the Center Party's budget motion, we emphasise the following orientations for long-term communications policy. We note that it is essential that a well-functioning, accessible and, above all, reliable and sustainable transport and IT infrastructure is an absolute prerequisite for living, living, working and doing work in the whole country. This approach does not only apply to passenger transport, but freight transport is just as important. The Center Party also does not want to set different modes of transport against each other. A cross-modal approach must always be applied in all traffic and community planning. Sometimes, Madam President, in the political debate, road to rail, shipping to air and so on. In real life, for people and businesses, the realization is great that for the whole life to work, the whole chain of different modes of transport must work from door to door and from point A to point B. Of course, the Center Party fully supports the decision that Sweden should achieve a fossil-independent vehicle fleet. According to the Center Party's view, technology development, efficiency, digitalisation, regulatory simplifications and a shift to e.g. electrified transport and bio-based fuels make it possible for communications to continue to develop and be good throughout the country without increasing the environmental and climate impact. On the contrary, it can be reduced. It is even the case that increased mobility and more transport work are in no way incompatible with high climate targets. To choose a policy that meets the climate challenge of preventing people and goods from moving and moving is, according to me and the Center Party, the wrong way to go. With regard to one of the modes of transport, the railways, we note that the expectation of delivering punctual transport is eroding. That's not good enough. The Center Party therefore prioritises in its draft budget both an increase in maintenance and an expansion of the Swedish railway. However, in order to pick up on the need and also in order to bring forward investments in our common transport infrastructure, whether it be rail or any other mode of transport, we need to finance this in a smarter way than we do today. In our exercise we have called it alternative financing solutions, which may contain different ways. However, compared to today, when we squeeze everything – investment, operation and maintenance – into the annual running operating budget, this means that we can make the necessary investments sooner than otherwise. Otherwise, my friends, we will always be at least one generation according to the needs of Swedish transport infrastructure. The Center Party defends the development of the whole country, and it is therefore of the utmost importance that the resources that we now decide to invest are also allocated fairly throughout the country. Finally, Madam President, with reference to the budgetary practice I used to make, I report that the Centre Party supports the specific opinion we have given in the course of the committee's proceedings. However, in order for there to be something to vote on tomorrow on this point too, I am in favour of the Centre Party's reservation, which is linked to the report. It is a request which basically involves the Transport Agency having the appropriations for operation and maintenance available more freely over the calendar year than they are allowed to do today. I am convinced, Madam President and friends, that it would facilitate the work of the Finnish Transport Administration to plan and perform maintenance more and better than it is today.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1336	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that I regret that Parliament does not support the liberals' environmentally friendly and forward-looking budgetary motion. We will therefore not be taking part in the budget decision on these appropriations to be taken later – probably tomorrow. Madam President, I would like A country's transport opportunities are a cornerstone for its development. It is therefore important that we put our infrastructure efforts in a holistic perspective and also think long-term about what we are doing. Our political decisions in the field of transport have a huge impact on our everyday lives, on our cities and different locations, and not least on our companies and thus on the opportunities to develop our well-being. Liberals do not want to limit the possibilities of travelling or transporting goods. We believe that it promotes Sweden that people meet and that companies have the opportunity and access to reliable transport. Instead, we focus on how we can achieve these reliable transports while at the same time achieving our ambitious environmental and climate goals. It is also about the goal of a fossil-free vehicle fleet by 2030. There is an over-reliance in policy to subsidise the new solutions. Liberals do not believe that it is we politicians who sit on the solutions or know what is best in the future to solve environmental problems. We believe that it is the various actors in the field of transport who can jointly find the best ways forward to achieve the common objectives. That is why we say that policy must support a variety of solutions, because we do not really know what solutions it is that will have a real impact. However, the transport sector must change to become a fossil-free vehicle fleet. Cars are a cornerstone of our transport system, but unfortunately they still account for a large part of greenhouse gas emissions. The transition isn't fast enough. Because of that, we want to focus on how the transition can be facilitated. The path of liberals is not to create a better environment through subsidies on purchasing, but rather to allow those responsible for emissions to pay so that it will be unprofitable to pollute our world. We are therefore proposing a reverse environmental car bonus which means that instead of subsidising electric cars, anyone who buys a car that goes on fossil fuels will pay more than the one who buys an electric car. At the same time, we politicians must now focus on what infrastructure efforts are rapidly impacting on climate emissions. The report of the UN Panel on Climate Change is appalling and calls for strong action. This is why the Liberals want to invest money in charging infrastructure along primarily our main roads in Sweden to enable a faster transition from fossil-dependent cars to electric transport and thereby reduce emissions. Another measure is to make it easier for travellers to make climate-smart choices. We want to develop a national digital platform for travel to facilitate the use of different modes of transport when travelling somewhere so that you can choose between, for example, public transport, car pools and rental cars. It'll make it easier when you plan your trip. We believe that this is a very important way forward. Now there are much more of different parts that are not compatible with each other. As I said, we do not want to restrict travel, and so does aviation. We want to increase the incentives for airlines to reduce their emissions through a tax on the CO2 emissions of aircraft rather than taxing the seat itself. We believe it has a greater impact on the climate. It is important to find the measures that really have an impact by 2030. Madam President, I would like Finally, let me be a little more personal. On Monday we celebrated the centenary of democracy. The most important part of a democracy is universal suffrage. I am very proud that my grandfather, Emil Lagerkvist, was involved in that debate and took the decision on universal suffrage. That is why it was particularly interesting for me to listen on Monday to the seminar on what will happen in the future about what future democracy will look like. It stated that the importance of knowledge and that everyone across the country can take part in what is happening in society are some of the most important things for us to maintain our democracy. This is one of the reasons why the Liberals are investing extra in ensuring that the whole country has good access to broadband, which is not the case today. There's a lot of difference. Where a lot of people live, it is more profitable, but there are large parts of the country that do not have access to broadband. Having access to broadband not only affects how we communicate and how we can absorb information, but also gives more opportunity to run companies across the country. Being able to live and work on sensible terms around Sweden is, in addition to universal suffrage, one of the most important parts of our democracy.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1347	Madam President, I would like When we are now debating Category 22 Communications, it is important to bear in mind that the budget endorsed by the Green Party, that is, the Budget Bill for 2019, also known as the Transitional Budget, is not a political budget. It is a budget based on the principles that the transitional government, in consultation with other parties, has put forward for the preparation of a transitional budget. But it does not correspond to the political will of any party. However, it would have been reasonable for this budget to have gone through to enable a future government to shape its policies. Unfortunately, it is now effectively hindered by the Moderates and Christian Democrats who, with the support of the Swedish Democrats and with the passive indulgence of the Center Party and Liberals, have voted for other budgetary frameworks. If the Green Party had put in a politically coloured budget, we would have liked to see a budget that has strongly steered towards a more sustainable and fossil-free transport sector. The budgetary frameworks implemented by the Moderates and Christian Democrats, supported by the Swedish Democrats, mean a major deterioration in the conditions for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and for achieving the Paris Agreement's objectives of achieving a temperature increase well below 2 degrees and demanding that it should stop at 1.5 degrees. The budgetary framework also makes it difficult to achieve our own transport sector target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the sector by 70% by 2030. According to Trafikverket, we would need to reduce our emissions by 8 percent annually in order to reach the target. Today, however, we are only at a reduction rate of 2%. In addition, Trafikverket is forecasting large increases in traffic, which will make it more difficult to achieve the objectives. During the previous parliamentary term, the Green Party and the Social Democrats have taken a series of measures to make Sweden a fossil-free welfare country. We have introduced the change of fuel, i.e. a reduction obligation, bonus– malus, air tax, electric vehicle premium and climate investment through the Climate Change Act. We have invested in increased maintenance of the railways and urban development agreements, which for the first time enable state co-financing in public transport and bicycle infrastructure. Of course, further action is needed – measures that we want to see a future government take. These are measures to improve the ability to travel by train by means of high-speed trains while increasing maintenance on the existing rail network so that a zero vision of train trouble can be achieved. These are also measures that improve the conditions for travelling by public transport and bicycle to a greater extent and measures that allow the last drop of fossil fuel to be sold in 2030. These are also measures that allow more goods to be transferred from road to rail and shipping. When the Moderates and Christian Democrats now present a party-politically coloured budget, they choose instead to reduce the conditions for reducing climate emissions. They remove the air tax so that once again the flight does not take responsibility for its climate and environmental costs. Although the abolition of the air tax itself is not decided in this area of expenditure, it is mentioned in the committee's report when, as a result of the abolition, the Moderates and Christian Democrats withdraw the aid that has been granted to non-governmental airports in Norrland. I would also like to mention that the Moderates and Christian Democrats cut off half, 840 million, of the Climate Investment Programme, which is the central programme for reducing Sweden's emissions. The support goes to hundreds of projects to reset Sweden: charging poles for electric cars, cycle paths, biogas plants, heat recovery etc. The projects that have been implemented so far lead to a reduction in Sweden's climate emissions of about 1.6 million tonnes of carbon dioxide per year. This corresponds to emissions from 750 000 passenger cars. In total, 40 per cent of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's total activities for nature, environment and climate are cut. This is not in this area of expenditure either, but it affects the conditions for transport and communications. The choice is to abolish the premium for electric vehicles and load-home support. It is now falling to Bil Sweden. It's a little comical; it's not always an actor who's on the same side as the Green Party. But we are grateful that it has also paid attention to this. As has been said, the greatest deterioration in the climate may not be in this particular area of expenditure. But if you look at the whole picture and what affects the climate and transport, you still have to mention them in this context. With regard to this area of expenditure, it is remarkable that what the Moderates and Christian Democrats are prioritising is the abolition of free public transport for young people during the summer holidays that the government has carried out. It is about SEK 350 million a year and has done a great deal for young people's opportunities for increased mobility. It has of course affected the ability to transport to both summer jobs and leisure activities. I would like to emphasise that it is important to establish an early habit of using public transport. It provides the conditions for a more conscious and sustainable transport behaviour later in life. The Moderates and Christian Democrats also propose to reduce the allocation to the Finnish Transport Agency by 5 million, as they do not want to see an extension of the review of the conditions for fossil freedom for state-owned ships. We know that the ecobonus will be stopped. They also propose to reduce the allocation to the Swedish Transport Agency by an additional 5 million, as there should be no extension of the commitment to compliance at environmental zones. In total, the moderate and Christian-democratic budget represents cuts of 489 million in this area of expenditure. The Green Party is very concerned about the possibilities for a new government to make efforts to reduce climate emissions sufficiently. Unfortunately, it will be difficult for a new government to meet in an amending budget the commitments that Sweden has to meet climate change and reduce emissions, as tax revenues have been significantly reduced. We need to turn the emissions curves downwards to be able to limit the temperature increase. As has also been mentioned before, the IPCC report on the potential to reach the 1.5-degree target can be dark-feared. It shows that the consequences will be great if we are not able to achieve that objective. Madam President, I would like Outside the Riksdag today, an older lady gave me a flyer. Perhaps more people received such a flyer. It said: We love our children and grandchildren. An increasingly warmer climate is a threat to their future. That is exactly what it is about: the future of our children and grandchildren. Don't forget that! Since the budget proposal's framework for the area was greater than the framework decided by the Moderates and Christian Democrats with the support of the Swedish Democrats, we in the Environment Party and the Social Democrats in the committee have not been able to reserve ourselves. For this reason, the Green Party does not take part in the decision on the expenditure area. Instead, we refer to the special opinion of the Social Democrats and the Green Party. I also call for the Centre Party's reservation contained in the report to be rejected.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1370	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Emma Berginger for her speech. I share the great commitment to climate and the environment expressed by the Green Party and Emma Berginger. The Center Party shares it with all our power. However, I note that in practical policy we sometimes look for ways to achieve common objectives. But that's probably why we are different parties in the Swedish parliament. Madam President, I would like On one point, however, I am a little picky. It concerns the budgetary process. I may, of course, have heard it wrong, but I think that Emma Berginger said in her speech that the financial framework that we now have to consider came about with the passive support of the Center Party and Liberals. I may have heard wrong, and then Emma Berginger will of course correct me. It was in this way, as I also said in my speech, that, in the first stage of the budgetary process, Parliament endorsed other spending frameworks and estimates of revenue than the Center Party had proposed. That is why we follow the practice and refrain from taking part in decisions on the allocation of appropriations, as we did in the framework decision. We voted yellow. We voted on our own proposal. Then we voted yellow. That's practice. Madam President, I would like If I did not hear it wrong, I would like to ask for an explanation of how the Green Party makes it a passive support.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1374	Madam President, I would like I can state that Anders Åkesson heard wrong. What I said was that it was under the passive indulgence of the Center Party and Liberals that it had been voted by the then mentioned parties – the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. Actually, it's not the same thing. I can also note that the practice referred to by Anders Åkesson has been clearly broken by the Swedish democrats who were in the speaker's seat earlier and spoke for a budget that was not then voted on.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1376	Madam President, I would like Then I heard wrong, which I am happy about, but not quite as wrong as I might be moved to believe. Even to claim that it was a passive indulgence is enough to go a little far in their assessment of how parties act in the Riksdag, when parties follow inboxed practice since the early 90s, i.e. vote on their own budget and if it falls you vote yellow. You don't do it. To have it passively indulged while having been able to enjoy a speech from me in the past, in which I pointed out what efforts the Center Party actually intends to make, is to go a little further. But then we might have met in half.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1378	Madam President, I would like I am nevertheless in favour of Anders Åkesson expressing such a commitment to the climate that he started the shift with. It would have been a good thing if we had both been able to have a little more impact in a budget that the Parliament had actually decided on.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1379	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. Since Sweden has a transitional government, the starting point for the 2019 budget bill was the budget decided by the Riksdag for 2018. It is fully in line with the principles we have come up with. At the same time, however, this would mean delaying the necessary decisions and extending some of the red-green policies. Social problems have not taken a break because Sweden lacks a real government, and our view is that Sweden cannot wait for reforms. We need to strengthen the Swedish economy, job creation and basic functions in society. That is why the Moderates and Christian Democrats have tabled a joint draft budget. I am pleased that Parliament has supported its framework and now also the committee on Category 22. We have heard how some parties try to mislead and claim that this would be a napkin sketch, as I think the Prime Minister did not quite say the other week. On the contrary, the draft budget is serious, well worked out and is mainly based on the Government's budget proposal. Of course, the red-green parties know that. But they choose not to mention it. However, we have made changes on a number of important points where Sweden needs a different and better policy here and now. Of course, it would have been free for the Red-Green parties to put their own draft budgets in Parliament, which we would not have opposed. Sweden has a transitional government. We don't have a transitional holiday. Madam President, I would like Let me say that Sweden is a sparsely populated country in the outskirts of northern Europe with long distances and a strong urbanisation to large and small cities. A functioning infrastructure lays the foundation for jobs and growth and is a prerequisite for Sweden and Swedish companies to stand up well in tough global competition. We need roads, railways, shipping and flights to tie our country together. At the same time, the transport sector faces major challenges, and emissions from domestic transport account for one third of Sweden's emissions. We must break the dependence on fossil fuels, promote technology development and use more rail and shipping to achieve our climate goals. The budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats therefore contain the second largest investments in the state's budget on climate and environment ever in Sweden's history. At the same time, our policy must take into account that Sweden looks different. Let me give you a concrete example. Me and my husband live in Stockholm. We just sold our car because we can do it. We have close access to public transport and to car pool. My in-laws, who live 20 km outside Ockelbo in Gävleborg County, are completely dependent on the car and would not be able to do the same. Policies need to take into account that people should be able to live and develop both in our cities and in rural areas. The previous government's transport policy has set traffic laws against each other and, in many cases, city and country against each other, and it has helped to increase the cost of our transport. It is a policy that Sweden and Swedish companies cannot afford. Instead, wise investments in infrastructure and smart instruments are needed with the help of new technologies and fuels so that we can transport greener while safeguarding our competitiveness. We do not have time or money for symbolic policies that do not bring us closer to climate objectives. When independent experts say that seven out of eight of the government's efforts in the field of climate change are ineffective, we take it seriously. In order to achieve the climate targets, it is important that we re-set our fleet of vehicles. In addition to bonus– malus and reduction obligation with demands for the involvement of biofuels, which we fully support, the Moderates and Christian Democrats in their budget have targeted support for the expansion of charging infrastructure along our roads of SEK 50 million in 2019 and SEK 100 million in the coming years. It is important policy for more people to dare to invest in, for example, an electric car. Madam President, I would like On platforms around Sweden people freeze while waiting for trains that are delayed or not coming at all. If more people dare to take the train, it will make a huge contribution to achieving our climate goals. After decades of underinvestment in rail maintenance, the alliance government doubled railway maintenance and today there is a political consensus that it is important to invest in rail, which I welcome. The Moderates and Christian Democrats also list the appropriations for the railways over the next three years. At the same time, I regret that the Red-Green Government has not moved on with the important issues relating to how we govern the organisation of the railways, because it is not all about money. The survey of over 1,000 pages produced by the Alliance government on the organization of the railway was hidden in a drawer at the Ministry of Industry by the Red Green Government. All you have to do is regret it. It is true, as has been said with the emphase of the speaker's chair, that in our draft budget we are removing SEK 350 million for free public transport for young people in the summer, which the Left Party got through in its budget negotiation with MP and S. But we give SEK 1.5 billion to the county councils in general grants. We also provide 3.5 billion in general grants to municipalities so that they can decide on their own priorities. If you wish to continue with the effort on free public transport for young people, you can do so. We also reintroduce leisure money to households with financial assistance and extend it to include summer holiday activities. Madam President, I would like The flight is crucial to tying our elongated country together with our world around us as well. According to many experts, the red-green government's inefficient aviation tax has limited climate benefits. It moves many of the domestic transports to cars and moves many of the international transports to Kastrup in Copenhagen. The Moderates and Christian Democrats therefore propose that the air tax be abolished from 1 July 2019. Instead, we hope for a demand for the inclusion of biofuels in aircraft's thoughts as well. We also want different take-off and landing fees depending on the fuel used. It is smart climate policy that aims to reduce emissions, not to reduce flying. Madam President, I would like Many people living in rural areas lack a functioning public transport system and have been affected to a large extent by the increase in the red-green government's fuel taxes, in which petrol and diesel taxes have been listed annually more than inflation. These tax increases the Moderates and Christian Democrats want to freeze. All who depend on the car for jobs and livelihoods should not be disadvantaged because they live outside the big cities or far from a train station. Madam President, I would like The Swedish road safety work and our vision of zero seriously injured or killed in traffic is an example in the rest of the world. One reason for many serious accidents is alcohol. During the time of the alliance government, experiments were introduced in several of our harbours with alco-bommers, which greatly reduced the number of drunk drivers who drove into the country. It was claimed in the pulpit earlier that the Moderates and Christian Democrats are not making any reinforcements in this area, which is not true. On the contrary, our budget means SEK 9 million in reinforcement in order to introduce automated sobriety checks in several of our ports to ensure that we continue to protect our important road safety work. No one should be able to drive into Sweden drunk. In a modern world where more and more services depend on connectivity, the digital infrastructure is as important as the physical one. Therefore, it is crucial to ensure continued fiber expansion but also infrastructure for the new generation Internet 5G. A future government must ensure rapid auctioning of spectrum bands required to expand 5G networks in Sweden and thus enable connected people, companies and products, including self-driving cars in the transport area. The Moderates want and know that Sweden can become a digital pioneer country. Madam President, I would like Sweden cannot afford to wait for reforms. I am convinced that with the right policies we can secure a reliable transport system, safeguard Swedish competitiveness and people's ability to live throughout the country while making transports green and sustainable. By combining growth and sustainability, Sweden can become an example for other countries, but this requires both and if more people want to follow suit.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1402	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessica Rosencrantz, for your speech! There are many things that I share about what we need to develop further. However, I do not see that Jessica Rosencrantz has more resources in her budget. I would like to quote a person who said this on March 31, 2018:中 We need good and safe roads so that people can get to work and companies get their goods delivered, no matter where in the country they live. Now we see that our roads are getting worse and that the money is not enough for maintenance and snow clearance. That's not good enough. Thus, the Moderates promise 500 million kronor a year for better roads. It is a powerful investment in our common road network. It is partly about maintenance of roads and bridges, but also about winter road maintenance during the colder months of the year. ..................................................... The investment amounted to SEK 500 million per year during this term of office, i.e. a total of SEK 2 billion. My question to Jessica Rosencrantz is then: Who promised the Swedish people that in this year's elections?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1405	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. That sounds like a wise person. I think it was me. We had more money for road maintenance in the Moderates' budget. But two different parties would agree on different priorities and now we have landed in a joint draft budget, which looks a certain way. I'm not going to go under the impression that more money is needed for road maintenance. I think we should come back to this House in the near future and see how we can further strengthen the Swedish road infrastructure. However, I note that people who depend on the road network and road transport around the country are very tired of a red-green policy that only makes it more expensive and more difficult to use the road network. I think AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg will have a slightly lower tone on this particular issue.
i-7y5YMGCskz5TXHiZU8KMLK	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessica Rosencrantz, for your answer! I still find it remarkable that the Moderates are going to elections to invest 500 million SEK more in the country's roads. It is an investment of 2 billion, which was proudly spoken of and which is still listed on the Moderate website. Is your answer that the Christian Democrats have strongly resisted the drive on the roads? Didn't they understand, as you did, that you needed this? Regardless of this, I would like to say something about the napkin sketch that you called thorough. Long-term and predictable business as well as public authorities and people want. The budget chaos that has not only existed in the Committee on Transport and Tourism does not show that it was well worked out.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1412	Madam President, I would like There has been chaos in the Swedish parliament, and nothing is in order when the Social Democrats do not get their policies through. I understand that this is an image that the red-green parties would like to pursue. In fact, every committee has had a solid process on this. They have invited staff from the Government Office, who have had to give their views on the various draft budgets. We have met the preparation requirements in its various parts. I therefore find it remarkable that people want to spread a false picture of the fact that there has been chaos in the Swedish Parliament, just because they do not get their own budget through. With regard to the former, I can only repeat what I said. Sometimes priorities have to be set among a number of important appropriations. In this case, the budget landed in this way. However, I am proud to represent a budget which really focuses on the fact that we need all kinds of transport in Sweden and which does not have the express aim of combating certain types of traffic. That was the explicit objective of the previous government.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1415	Madam President, I would like The Moderates were the great losers of the election. No party lost as many voters – 170 000 – as did the Moderates. In my eyes, the Moderates are now increasingly acting like a desperate, wounded animal. At first, it completely fails to form a new government. Then you test the budget track instead. It calls for the transitional government not to have a budget with any new political reforms at all. At the next stage, we are presenting our own budget, which is full of political proposals. They demand that Prime Minister Stefan Löfven, who must not resign because he leads a transitional government, should administer a budget from the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. I do not think this is very responsible, and it will punish itself for the Moderates. With regard to the content of this budget, it is deeply problematic that the Moderates abolish free public transport during the summer for children and young people. Camilla Bunke from Skånetrafiken says in the following way about how free public transport for young people has worked in Skåne:中 We have received many reports that it has been much appreciated and that Skåne's young people really have taken the chance to try public transport. ..................................................... Just like that, I think it's been all over the country. At last, young people have become accustomed to travelling collectively. I think it's behavior that's going to follow them in adulthood. It will be good for themselves, and it will also be good for the environment. I listened carefully to Jessica Rosencrantz's speech. She said a lot of nice things about the climate. But how are we going to save the climate when you abolish reforms that aim in such a direction, such as the reform of free public transport for young people?
i-6qqZghaRXoDRYGVi5BELax	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the question! Seven out of eight parties in the Swedish Parliament agree on the goals, but we do not agree on the means for achieving the climate targets exactly. When seven out of eight of the government's actions are considered ineffective, according to various experts such as the Institute of Economic Development, I think there is reason to question whether 1 billion for electric bicycle premiums, 350 million for targeted support for free public transport for young people or an inefficient aviation tax are the right reforms. At best, it is symbolic policy, and at worst, some proposals represent a policy that leads in the wrong direction. I am proud that through our draft budget we can expand the charging infrastructure along the road network to enable more people to dare to invest in, for example, an electric car. I am proud that we have suggestions on how to really replace the fuel in the aircraft instead of coming with point sticks to people who have a long way to the nearest city or workplace and saying that they should not take the flight because we do not think that you should fly in this country. On the contrary, we say to replace the fuel. I am proud that we are increasing funds for research into biofuels for aviation. I am proud that we have been pushing for and supporting reforms such as bonus– malus and reduction obligations with demands for the incorporation of biofuels into cars for a long time. I am very proud of our environmental and climate policy in a number of areas. As I said, this is the second largest environmental and climate budget that Sweden has ever had. Listeners can probably take statements such as a slaughter, a heavy cut, and all that we have heard from the red-greens with a certain pinch of salt. It's just rhetoric and not so much more.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1428	Madam President, I would like That doesn't make any sense at all. For example, in the field of climate investment, you halve investments through this budget. You want to abolish the air tax, which reduces emissions by about 180 000 tonnes. This is as much as the total emissions from Malmö City's cars. Then come up with a better idea! But no one has seen such a thing so far. The Moderates dream of a biofuel blend, which is not here and now. That's why the airline tax is needed. The free public transport for young people led to 3.5 million new public transport trips among children and young people only in Skåne County, thanks to the fact that we made public transport free in summer for children and young people. These are reforms that the Moderates and Christian Democrats, supported by the Swedish Democrats, abolish. This is not taking responsibility for Sweden's future.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1432	Madam President, I would like With SEK 1.5 billion in general government grants to county councils, there is, as I said, every opportunity to continue this investment in public transport if you think it is a priority. As far as air traffic is concerned, this House addressed an announcement to the government that it must ensure that tools are put in place to obtain biofuels for aviation. Before the announcement was made, the airline tax was the only thing we had seen from the government. There was no serious discussion about how we could replace the fuel. It was this House that addressed the announcement to the government. Lately, an investigation was set up under the direction of Maria Wetterstrand. It will come in March next year, and I very much look forward to reading its conclusions. I hope that soon thereafter we can move forward and get smart instruments in place to reduce emissions from aviation. But then we have already abolished the inefficient and harmful aviation tax imposed by the previous government.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1435	Madam President, I would like It is a dark picture of Sweden that Jessica Rosencrantz paints. She says that we are a sparsely populated country in the northern corner of Europe, despite the fact that the southern part of Sweden is at least as densely populated as large parts of Europe in general. I find it hard to understand what Jessica Rosencrantz has against Kastrup, which is the regional airport that most actors want to turn to. But that's not why I took the line, but I'm really curious about how the Moderates want to work to reduce our climate emissions, now that they choose to remove the airline tax without having a proper plan for how the aviation emissions can be handled otherwise. We know that the biofuels referred to by Jessica Rosencrantz will not be sufficient and that we will see problems in terms of the quality of biodiversity in Sweden's forests, which we need to protect. I also wonder how the SEK 50 million for charging infrastructure will be able to respond to the SEK 840 million that is chosen to reduce climate change investments with and to a large extent has gone to charging infrastructure. The report mentions that it would have preferred to have completely abolished the climate category, but that it had some elements listed earlier. My question is as I said: how do you want an effective climate policy that cuts greenhouse gas emissions, especially given that you want to tax-free flights and invest heavily in roads?
i-W8rcCVWhw3xVsSmaEdKn5a	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Emma Berginger! I Emma Berginger that it takes more than two minutes for me to describe our entire environmental and climate policy, because it is quite extensive. Nevertheless, let me say proudly that, for example, we are adding 1 billion to the green industries, which are incredibly important in order to produce the biofuels that Emma Berginger described. We also provide EUR 1 billion in multilateral climate aid, in addition to the clean environment and climate budget. In the case of aviation, for example, if you are going to answer that particular question, there are a huge number of measures to be taken. For example, there is a Single European Sky, which according to various assessors is said to be able to reduce emissions by 15% when we can suddenly start flying straighter instead of taking detours in the different national airspaces, there are demands for biofuel incorporation and there is the Norwegian model with different take-off and landing charges depending on fuel. I also take note of what the European Commissioner for Research on Aviation says. He describes that within ten years we will be able to have electric aircraft as well, alongside aircraft involved in biofuels. I have faith that technology will solve some of the challenges, but I also have a conviction that politics must press ahead with the right tools. One way is, among other things, the involvement of biofuels.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1443	Madam President, I would like I also look forward to the investigation led by Maria Wetterstrand on biofuels in aviation. At the same time, I can say that, with the knowledge we have today, we know that biomass is not enough if we are to continue to increase aviation at the rate we are doing. Then we know that the climate benefit of blending biofuels will be absorbed by 2030. I think we should work on the instruments that we have available today. Aviation tax has been such an instrument. Then the Green Party would have liked the climate-management effects of the air tax to have been even higher. I note that it is extremely problematic to opt for the removal of the indexation of fuel taxes that Jessica Rosencrantz mentioned earlier, as the removal of indexation actually undermines the tax.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1445	Madam President, I would like As I said in my speech, I think it is important to ensure that people in both rural and urban areas can get their lives together and get to and from work. This requires well-thought-out instruments. I am aware that the Green Party quite often formulates its policy based on what works in Stockholm City. For me who lives here I can say that it works very well, but Sweden looks different. I believe, for example, that greatly increased taxes on petrol and diesel are hitting those who do not have public transport. Then I do not think it is a way forward to raise these taxes by more than inflation each year. I do not think it is a way forward, if you want to achieve real climate benefits, to have a tax on the aircraft seat but not on the aircraft fuel. This is, among other things, the latter we want to achieve by renegotiating the Chicago Convention so that it will be possible to tax aviation fuel but also to safeguard the global agreement that is now in place on aviation, where we can actually reduce emissions. Sweden accounts for a relatively small proportion of emissions.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1448	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that it is very unfair: I have a strong supporter in this debate. It's my daughter, 12 years old, who's been having fun sitting here listening to us. But I'm going to go over to my speech. For most of our history it was lakes, rivers and seas that were our main trade and transport routes. Villages, shopping and towns grew up where different streams met roads. During the 1800s this changed when the railway created completely new transport routes, but the basic principle remained: Where the railway met watercourses and roads the cities continued to develop. T-Forden's entry into the market combined with cheap fuel was the major traffic reform of the 20th century, which allowed trade to take place on ever larger routes. Every new mode of transport changed the conditions for us people while the basic principle never changed, namely that it is trade and not work that creates welfare. During the beginning of the 21st century, part of the trade has moved to the Committee on Economic Affairs, but also the same universal principles apply. Countries, cities, villages and businesses that are well-functioning are better placed to trade than others. There is thus a pattern where new innovations lead to new trading venues. We in Sweden have been relatively good at catching up on these innovations. We created trading companies that traded with China during the 18th century, we borrowed money and built railway during the 19th century, we improved our roads during the 20th century and we were relatively successful with digitalisation during the early 2000s. All of this has contributed to the fact that today we have a welfare state that provides our citizens with education, health care, pensions and more. Madam President, I would like Today we are discussing Category 22. Today's decision will affect us all, and it will give our children and grandchildren the conditions for prosperity. Sometimes when we cross different budgetary frameworks or individual stretches on a road or railway, we should raise our eyes and ask ourselves how our future will be affected. What are the economic, ecological and social impacts of the initiative? Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats and the Moderates are presenting a joint budget for 2019. To a large extent, it coincides with the transitional budget. With us we have looked at this a little bit: there is 21⁄2 percent difference. I am not sure that the world is falling apart for this huge difference between our budgets. On the other hand, we are abolishing free public transport for young people and abolishing air tax in its current form. That is why we are also removing the additional compensation for smaller airports that were introduced at the same time as the air tax. In our view, the current aviation tax is inefficient and affects, above all, those who live outside our major cities. It is important that Sweden continues to be at the forefront of the green conversion of air traffic. We therefore propose, together with the Moderates, the introduction of mandatory inclusion of renewable fuel in all aviation fuels. We also believe that starting and landing charges should be environmental and climate governance to reward those who use efficient engines or more renewable fuel. We want Sweden to take the lead shirt to renegotiate the international agreements that currently put an end to more general aviation taxes in Europe, for example. We set aside 100 million in Category 20 to focus investments on research and development of biofuels for aviation. In order to reduce CO2 emissions, we invest in expanding charging poles, which facilitates the conversion of the fleet. We are all aware that we need to reduce our CO2 emissions. This presupposes, however, that we have the support of the citizens for these changes. For example, when you tax the countryside through high fuel costs on vehicles that people have to have to do their job or drive children to various forms of leisure activities, it is wrong. Madam President, I would like Instead of penalising the rural population, we Christian Democrats want to make structural changes. By electrifying our major roads in southern Sweden, we can halve carbon dioxide emissions from heavy truck traffic. If we build new high-speed rail, double tracks between Stockholm, Karlstad and Oslo and between Oslo, Uddevalla, Gothenburg, Malmö and Copenhagen, we can move goods from truck to train and get more people to choose trains instead of flights within the Nordic region. The Christian Democrats are aware that structural investment requires new financing models. Just as we were unable to expand the railways in the 19th century through state funding, we will not be able to build all that we want with today's funding. The interaction between municipalities, regions and states will be the norm rather than the exception. Various forms of bompeng to finance specific sections will be necessary. If we do not find other financing solutions, we risk getting caught up in good projects just because parts of the decision-making process cannot be involved in financing the individual route. This has happened, among other things, in Stockholm, where most agree that you need to complete the ring road by building the Eastern Link. However, because of various political locks, one does not get to grips. It is an example of a stretch of road that could have been solved by, for example, a bogeng. I think some people are thinking about the concept of bompeng. But I live so close to Norway that I know how it works. Madam President, I would like In addition to these projects, the Christian Democrats believe it is important that we work with the projects that are close to the users. Developed public transport, municipal and regional cycle strategy, support for individual roads and measures for minor changes in the traffic system are things that facilitate people's everyday lives. This is why we allocate SEK 3.5 billion to municipalities and SEK 1.5 billion to regions and county councils. It is therefore important for our authorities to capture these everyday needs. It is in everyday life that we gain confidence in infrastructure policy. That is also what enables us to make the major structural changes. Everyone who lives and builds in Sweden is affected by the measures we take within the traffic system. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats believe that shipping is an important part of the transport system. Freight flows between different countries and continents are increasing. We must therefore have a maritime strategy that encourages flagging, long-termism, stability for the industry and the development of our ports. Future shipping will require modern ports that function as a logistics centre, where transhipment between boat, rail and truck functions well. It is important that our authorities work for the coordination of the different modes of transport when Sweden's ports are developed. Madam President, I would like One area that must be mentioned in this debate is road safety. There are many of us who move in the traffic environment. That is why we must constantly work to develop the safety of our road users. Walking and cycling routes within and between municipalities increase the safety of road users. Recurrent traffic and alcohol controls increase safety for all of us. Rebuilding and renewal of our road networks, which take into account all road users including motorcycles, contribute to reduced injuries and deaths. Many of the road safety measures I mention not only have the effect of increasing safety, but they are also good for the environment. Madam President, I would like I am pleased that we have been able to settle with the Moderates on this year's budget. I'm even proud of it. I am pleased to hear that. However, I hope that future budgets will be negotiated with all alliance parties. We have worked together over the last decade, and we have the conditions for working together in the future as well. I like my alliance friends. I'm proud of them, too. I therefore support the proposal contained in this report.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1464	Madam President, I would like I am trying to understand why it is so important for the Christian Democrats to abolish air tax. Magnus Jacobsson said that it is inefficient and that there are other measures that you can take, such as using biofuels, and that you can generally research new technologies. I can agree that the air tax is not enough for us to deal with aviation emissions. And we should remember that this is Sweden's, the western world's and perhaps the world's fastest growing source of emissions. If we do nothing now against aviation emissions, we have a cuckoo that will grow so big that this source of emissions will be bigger than anyone else. Then I think that a flight tax is, in any case, a way of dealing with these emissions. It actually reduces emissions by 180 000 tonnes – as much as the City of Malmö's cars. I think that the Christian Democrats will then have to show a more effective way of reducing aviation emissions here and now. Dreaming about biofuels can be done. But they're not here right now. Biofuels also have the problem of competing with other things that they want to do on the land where biofuels are grown. Magnus Jacobsson said that instead they want a landing and take-off fee. That doesn't sound like a bad idea. But then the Christian Democrats will have to present a landing and take-off fee that is at least as effective as the existing flight tax. We should also remember that the Christian Democrats wanted to abolish air tax as of 1 January. However, I do not see any concrete alternatives from the Christian Democrats to reduce aviation emissions from 1 January. What suggestions do you have here and now and not dreams in the future?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1467	Madam President, I would like Traffic systems must be seen as a whole. Throughout the Left's policy is to disadvantage rural areas and benefit those living in urban areas. This applies regardless of whether we are talking about bus cards, airline tax or increased fuel costs. Throughout, they have one and the same effect, namely that the countryside is affected and that those living in the cities benefit from it. Air transport accounts for about 3% of CO2 emissions. We can, of course, chase these 3% as much as we like. Or do as I do in my speech and note that Sweden has been extremely good at taking on new technology over the past few centuries. Here I think we could get very far together if, for example, we start talking about CO2 emissions as a whole. Then it is probably much more effective to see if we can find financial solutions to electrify more of our roads than to keep on taxing the countryside. It is this type of system thinking, when you go into the small and do not take into account who is affected, who is at a disadvantage to Swedish environmental policy. We have to pursue CO2 emissions as a whole. Then we shall go in where it is effective without penalising the countryside.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1469	Madam President, I would like I really don't understand anything. We have to do things that are effective. Yes, we have an effective instrument here, and the Christian Democrats say that you should do other things but do not present a single concrete proposal. Nor do I understand the talk that rural areas are being penalised when it is the Christian Democrats, the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats who, in their budget under this expenditure area, cut down on earmarked public transport spending in rural areas. It is also the Christian Democrats, the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats who are cutting down on earmarked investments in free public transport for children and young people all over the country, which is something that allows young people themselves to travel collectively so that parents do not have to push them across. This is something that Magnus Jacobsson himself touched upon in his speech. I do not hear anything about concrete proposals from the Christian Democrats on how to reduce emissions from the aviation sector or other areas. That disappoints me a little, Madam President.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1470	Madam President, I would like It is quite obvious that we are talking past each other. I'll take it slow. In the field of aviation, we are talking about more fuel and about taxing in a different way. We are therefore prepared to take action in the field of aviation as well. However, we are not prepared to take measures that affect large parts of the countryside. The same is true when it comes to raising fuel prices. We are prepared to look at models that can be effective in moving from environmentally hazardous transport to environmentally sound transport, such as electricity. But we are not prepared to impose penalties on the countryside. If we are serious about what I am referring to in my speech, that is to say that in a serious way – preferably together and preferably across block borders – we are looking at how we could move forward with electrification, just as in the 19th century the railway was built, more electricity will be needed. The question then is: will the Left Party block nuclear power development?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1472	I would like to point out that questions should not be asked in a final reply. However, I note that Jens Holm wanted to reply and was not allowed to reply.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1473	Madam President, I would like I'm a little curious. Jessica Rosencrantz promised in the election an investment in rural roads of 500 million SEK, and she said in the line shift with me that it was a tough negotiation. On the other side, of course, was Magnus Jacobsson. This makes me curious and I have to ask: What does Magnus Jacobsson have against an investment on the roads with SEK 500 million?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1474	Madam President, I would like I think we should be a little more honest with each other; quite rightly, budget negotiations are not going to work either, but I suspect that you have a budget group that is negotiating. I have not really been involved in every single comma in this negotiation, I will note in all humility. Like the Moderates, however, we have, of course, had a number of areas on which we have focused. For us, it has been health care issues. One issue that has been very important to us is aid, and another important issue has been to ensure that municipalities are able to ensure that refugees can remain in their homes. I am extremely pleased that the SD, of all people, voted in favour of this. So we have had questions that we have been pushing. Then there's that – everyone who sits here knows, and it's the same in the county councils – that we're presenting a one-year budget. However, in the Committee on Finance, we are still pointing to a three-year budget, and the big investments are coming in 2020 and 2021. I hope, of course, that we will have a government that will be able to implement them in 2020 and 2021. However, as far as the 2019 budget is concerned, it is quite correct that the Moderates have not got this through. We have got through other things, for example 2 billion to short queues in the care. We Christian Democrats have given priority to this. We have prioritised the soft values – but also ensured that the infrastructure is not damaged.
i-L8pRkoBFGWdRMthV9ZppL6	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your honesty, Magnus Jacobsson! Magnus Jacobsson also said in his speech that the overall contribution to Sweden's 290 municipalities was increased and that, if I understand it correctly, it would be an increase of 3.6 billion. But then I have to ask Magnus Jacobsson: Is it really a supplement, or is it eaten up by removing special-destined state subsidies to our 290 municipalities? What is the addition to Sweden's 290 municipalities?
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1479	Madam President, I would like Now I do not have all the committees' compilations, but if I remember correctly, it is about 600 – 700 million in targeted subsidies that are removed. Then you bring back 3 1⁄2 billion, so that's 2.8 billion. Then there is EUR 1.5 billion for regions and county councils and EUR 2 billion for short queues in health care, which, in our view, Christian Democrats are one of the really big failures. There are, of course, measures such as the police, the rule of law, customs and many other things that are important to us in the Committee on Transport. So that is a plus, although I cannot say exactly whether there are 600 or 700 million withdrawn; in that case, I have to look at each committee separately. But it's a huge plus, and that's why the debate gets so weird. 100 million people are being yelled at when we actually bring in considerably more money.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1481	Madam President, I would like I was going to start by saying that I feel pride when I look out over this Chamber – and especially when I go abroad to represent Sweden. Madam President and I have recently been to Georgia, and when you visit other countries and see what political problems there are, you actually feel proud of Parliament and our Parliament. We have principles, and we stand for stability in our society. Or I knew until now when we're going to decide on this budget, I'll tell you. It is now the case that some parties here – such as the Moderates, who have lost every third electorate in eight years – feel that they must act despite the fact that we have agreed on some principles. They just have to act, and then they sign up with some others and get support far right away. They receive support for something that does not really stand for the Swedish principle or the Swedishness of this Assembly. In this way, Madam President, I have lightened my heart a little bit about this. So we now see things that can happen in other countries also in the Swedish Parliament. It's a small part, but you can see that it's happening here too. Madam President, I would like Not only do I feel pride as a Member of Parliament, but I also feel pride as a Social Democrat. In the last parliamentary term, we achieved a great deal in this area. We have achieved such concrete things as cabotage offences, squeezing and fines. It has even increased the clamping time to 36 hours. We have taken things and done something proper, in many areas. However, there are some things that characterize how we work in our society, and that is that we have developed four strategies. It is the cycling strategy, and it is a maritime strategy. We have developed a flight strategy, and we have developed the good strategy. This is important, Madam President, because it is about authorities, industry and interest groups working together to develop a strategy. We agree on something in one area together. We have therefore set ourselves a number of objectives here, in which we agree that we will work in this area on the basis of the conditions we have jointly arrived at. For example, the good strategy is an area where after many years we now have a clear and clear objective for how to make transport work. It's about how we move transport from roads to shipping, for example, and how we should work on these issues. It is very important for us to achieve a reduced climate impact from our transport. However, we have not only done things with regard to strategier. Now there are suddenly moderates and Christian Democrats saying in the debate that they have been for the countryside. Yes, we invested 800 million in the development of rural public transport in the last parliamentary term – 200 million each year. We have invested and invested, year after year, to develop public transport in rural areas. We have also invested in free public transport for young people. When the Moderates and Christian Democrats talk about the countryside, they talk about flying to Stockholm, or wherever they mean. But we also need to make everyday life work in rural areas, which means getting to work and back. It's not just flying from the countryside to the big cities. In fact, it is the case that big city dwellers use aviation more than people in rural areas. Now it's said, so you understand it. Free public transport to all young people throughout the country is a fantastic measure, but I understand that it is being removed. When we discussed self-driving cars during the last parliamentary term, the Swedish Democrats took up epatractors, and it is probably epatractors that become the alternative to public transport in the country. I think it is unserious to abolish this possibility. We are trying to get young people to understand the importance of travelling collectively and to give them the opportunity to use public transport and get into that habit. But this measure is rejected. Probably it is the epatractor that is the alternative. Madam President, I would like We have a great many challenges ahead of us. We have said that we will decide on the biggest investment in infrastructure in modern times; 712 billion will be invested in 10-12 years. For us to be able to do so, we need competence. We need to train people to expand infrastructure, and we also need labour to use all modes of transport. That requires resources, Madam President. Resources are needed to train and expand qualified vocational training and higher education. Then you do not need 20 billion in tax cuts. Madam President, I would like Another challenge that is included in our strategies, as I mentioned earlier, is that we need expansion in the area of biofuels. We have some demand for biofuels, but we need to expand production. You cannot do that if you have the vision that the Moderates, the KD and the Swedish Democrats have on our social needs.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1494	Madam President, I would like I was surprised when I was listening. I have been privileged to sit on the Public Transport Board in Västra Götaland and on the Regional Development Board and have also been a municipal politician in a half-sized municipality in the country with slightly smaller neighbouring municipalities. The focus on public transport is very beautiful, but it has no effect on those who do not have a bus that goes from point A to point B. This is where it gets so stupid! You stand and describe how extremely positive this is. Of course, it is very good for them in Gothenburg, but it has no effect for those who travel from one rural municipality to another municipality when the bus does not go or when the last bus goes home at nine o'clock or something similar. It has not had such effects, but it has clearly been an initiative for big cities and medium-sized cities. Once again, it has been an initiative in which the rural population cannot take part in the impact. That is where part of our criticism lies. It will not be possible in all smaller municipalities to have about as good public transport as in Stockholm. It won't work that way. That's why it becomes so unfair when you raise the fuel prices for those who are forced to have a car. At the same time, large discounts are given to those living in cities, where public transport is available. You've torn this country apart! It is not a good policy from a fair point of view.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1499	Madam President, I would like I don't think Magnus Jacobsson really understood what this is all about. After all, we have invested so much in rural areas in relation to both the previous alliance government and what you are now doing in this budget. We have invested so much money in the possibility of public transport. Where there is public transport in the municipality, you should try to develop the method so that more people can use public transport, based on the public transport you have. My own municipality of residence has gone much further than this. It costs 50 SEK – you buy a card and can go the whole month for 50 SEK. This has made the buses suddenly filled with people; they no longer go empty but are filled with people. That is why it is important that the 800 million that we set aside in the last parliamentary term to invest did not come from above. It wasn't like we said, "Now you're gonna have to do this." Instead, one could start from one's own premises and develop what one has. Madam President, I would like There are certainly, as Magnus Jacobsson said, differences between municipalities and between regions. There are different conditions. That is why we invested money so that we could invest on the basis of our own conditions in order to build better public transport.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1503	Madam President, I would like I want to be careful here: I do not question your good intentions, Jasenko Omanovic. I do not question your will or your desire to do good. I'm just questioning the effect. When a system has been put in place to consistently raise fuel prices while having 350 million for free travel for 2019, which naturally means that a few more will travel during the summer than otherwise would have been the case, it means that those who do not have a functioning public transport – and it is large parts of Sweden that have very much less public transport than in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö and other major cities – are disadvantaged by this policy. They are being taxed, and that is why, among other things, we have been so critical of this very thing.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1505	Madam President, I would like I have to say to Magnus Jacobsson that the investment made with 350 million for young people, or the investment that we made so that, on the basis of their own conditions, they could create better functioning public transport for the inhabitants where they are, is much better for rural areas than tax cuts for those who earn over 42 000 SEK a month. What you are offering, Magnus Jacobsson, is tax reductions for those who earn over 42 000 SEK a month. It doesn't help most people in the countryside. It doesn't help nurses living in the countryside.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1507	Madam President, I would like It is quite interesting to hear Jasenko Omanovic standing here and ralliing over Moderate election results. When I last looked at val.se, the Social Democrats sank as a stone – 13 mandates disappeared. The Swedish Democrats picked up these 13 mandates, for which we are very grateful. Speaking of the rallies over rural epatractors, we think this is a good initiative. It is an initiative that benefits rural areas. Last time I looked, the rural buses stopped walking very early, and there are not many options for young people to get home. Then the bus may not be the highest option on the agenda, because then they will have to choose to walk. That is why we Swedish democrats have invested precisely in A-tractors and epatractors so that young people can travel much faster in a very safe environment. Then I have a small question for Mr Jasenko. I have noted that Jasenko lives in Västernorrland. How does Jasenko get to work here in Stockholm? I suspect he does not ride trains, as I do from Gothenburg. But it would have been interesting to know. As I said, we need lots of different transports. But making it difficult for flights, which I suspect Jasenko uses, is not a good idea for those living in rural areas. I see that there are also high-speed trains up to Härnösand, and it takes four and a half hours.
i-4KrrPR8CPeENCydoi1mm5e	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jimmy Ståhl, for the question! First of all, I don't mind the epatractor. But your policy is that you invest 20 billion in the rich. An epatractor today costs over $1,000, and no assistant nurse or fireman has the opportunity to buy one for his children. Only those who can afford, the ones you pour money over, can buy epatractors. However, the youth who does not have parents who are wealthy is directed either to travel collectively or, if possible, to ride a bicycle. The policy you are pursuing is very unfair, unfair to workers' children and unfair to the countryside, because those you are pouring tax cuts over are here on Östermalm to a much greater extent than anywhere in the countryside. That's why it's very unfair. Madam President, I would like I'll answer Jimmy Ståhl's second question about how I personally come here. On Monday I came here by train from Härnösand. It'll take four and a half hours. Flying is much faster. If I don't have time, I'll definitely use the flight, because we have both flights and trains. On the basis of the conditions, I use what is possible for me. But above all, I want to use trains if I can do it in time.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1516	Madam President, I would like It is quite interesting to stand here and listen to Jasenko Omanovic. I see and hear that Jasenko has taken over the rhetoric of the left: it is ugly to work and ugly to make money. That logic doesn't make sense. Of course you should make money if you work. I'm very happy that Jasenko chooses to take the train when he has time. I am also pleased to be able to tell Mr Jasenko that there are actually epatractors that do not cost hundreds of thousands of questions and that the young people themselves can build up for a rather cheap money.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1519	Madam President, I would like I can only regret that Jimmy Ståhl has not understood that his tax cuts only benefit the rich and not those who build their own epatractors – the children of the workers. Jimmy Ståhl has said here in the speaker's chair that they looked both at our budget and at the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats and felt that theirs fit better. That is why they voted for the M- and KD-budget. I wonder why people actually vote for the Swedish Democrats when they can directly vote for M and KD, because SD is voting for their budget anyway.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1521	Madam President, I would like Since, in the first stage of the budgetary process, the majority of Parliament has given a different direction to budgetary policy than we wish, we are abstaining from taking a position on the distribution of appropriations in Category 22. The Swedish Democrats underline the role of road traffic in Swedish society. However, our strategy for a competitive Swedish road infrastructure does not only extend to roads as a means of transport, as we believe that all modes of transport should be included and included in comprehensive transport and infrastructure planning. Our draft budget included efforts in a number of important areas, which went beyond the draft budget of the transitional government. I will mention some areas that we see as important for a competitive road infrastructure system. In a well-functioning and sustainable society, the right conditions should be created for the road network to be able to interact with other modes of transport, whether we are talking about the supply of food to a local store in the Swedish countryside, heavy transport to industry or regional freight or passenger transport. But also important societal functions such as defence, rescue services, medical care and police are in great need of functioning roads. Madam President, I would like I am one of the few in this House who has had death as a client. During my years at the traffic police I had time to investigate about 300 serious traffic accidents involving dead or severely injured people. I've been sitting with injured and shocked people trying to comfort them when they've been through something terrible. From my own experience, I know how serious accidents affect those affected, their relatives and close friends. I have met children who have lost parents, and I have met parents who have lost children. These experiences have of course affected my colleagues and not least myself. My time with the traffic police has increased my commitment to increasing road safety, and I hope, of course, that more people in this House will be committed to increasing road safety. According to the latest report I read about the cost to society of every person killed in road traffic, it is a total of SEK 46.6 million. SEK 46.6 million is the social cost for every person who dies! But human costs are not counted in money, for the loss of a family member, friend or colleague is far greater. Roads have become safer since the 1960s and the number of fatal accidents has been significantly reduced by various measures. In a historical perspective, Sweden has made great efforts to increase road safety. The positive trend we have seen in the accident rates has unfortunately stopped, and signals indicate that the number of accidents is increasing, which will give a gloomy result for 2018. At the end of November, a total of 287 persons were killed in traffic. This compares with 2017, when 253 people died in road accidents. We also see an increasing trend in drug drivers in connection with accidents. In 2017, 81 people died in alcohol or drug-related accidents. That's about 32% of the dead. In order to increase road safety, there is not a simple and rapid solution, but a number of measures need to be taken here. We Swedish democrats proposed in our budget motion SEK 345 million in addition to the Government's draft budget. We also proposed 500 million for municipal roads – money that would have been very useful in improving road safety. The Swedish Democrats are also proposing to invest in a special unit for the control of professional traffic, a unit of specially trained officials who possess a competence in traffic law that the regular police lack. For several years, the Swedish transport industry has been exposed to unhealthy competition. Serious operators in the transport sector are becoming increasingly difficult to pursue, and several companies have also gone bankrupt as a result of the current situation. The cause of the bankruptcies is not a bad business, but the answer is found in the unhealthy competitive situation that prevails. The criminal networks, as is often the case in these cases, are flying under the radar of the authorities and are able to conduct their criminal activities calmly. Criminals have also effectively infiltrated our logistics flows, for transport is an important part of criminal activity. Another problem in the transport industry is manipulated tachographs. It is a breach of the rules that is increasing dramatically and a cheating that eliminates competition. Not least, it has serious consequences for road safety. Imagine a driver sitting behind the wheel of a heavy vehicle and literally driving around the clock. What are the consequences for road safety? On one occasion while I was still in the traffic police in Skara and was out in control of professional traffic, we stopped a driver who had been driving for 55 hours without an approved daily rest period. 55 hours! And today's digital technology offers great opportunities to extinguish the tachograph completely, which means that you can basically drive around the clock without anything happening. At the end of November, an article was published in several newspapers, where the police note that a vehicle with a manipulated tachograph can drive in between 500 000 and 600 000 SEK extra. It is easy to understand how attractive it is for less serious hauliers to pick these low-hanging fruits. The risk of detection is in principle zero as the number of heavy traffic controls is extremely limited. Talk about distorting competition! Another proposal we Swedish democrats have put forward is a return of controls in companies' premises from the Swedish Transport Agency to a roadside inspection group. Since the Transport Agency took over these checks on 1 January 2011, it has repeatedly been shown that it is not competent to do them. You simply do not reach the conscious cheating. If the deliberate cheating is to be taken, it must be taken out on the road. Both the bus industry and the haulage industry have repeatedly pointed out how wrong these controls beat when the control methods of the Agency do not catch those who cheat. With a special roadside inspection team responsible for controlling professional traffic, it is possible to quickly and effectively control and, if necessary, prosecute those involved in tachograph fraud or other criminal activities. A special roadside inspection team also ensures that the personnel have the right competence for the task. A special roadside inspection team can quickly enter a company and carry out a so-called ‘business control' when they detect irregularities during a roadside inspection. I cannot help commenting on this with A-tractors because I come from a district that is literally deluded by A-tractors. One of the missions I had when I was working in the traffic police was just checking these. An A-tractor does not cost 100 000 SEK, but it is usually an old Volvo that is rebuilt by young people. It is in itself quite good that they employ themselves with a little mechanical knowledge, but sometimes it gets a little wrong. But an A-tractor doesn't cost $100,000.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1542	Madam President, I would like Digitalisation brings people closer together, and the digital infrastructure is essential for us to live, live and work throughout the country. For the Center Party, it is the fifth mode of transport, which, along with roads, railways, shipping and air transport, makes it possible to live, work and employment throughout the country. If we are to reach the broadband targets that are set, we need to speed up. One way is for Trafikverket to have increased responsibility for broadband issues in the large infrastructure planning – this in order to get the planning of IT in a clear and good way in, among other things, pre-study and investigation and in the four-step principle. Thanks to technology development, the applications of phones and tablets are increasing. Increased coverage and increasing transmission speeds are needed to enable internet-based services to be used everywhere. Especially in sparsely populated areas, mobile coverage can be of great help before fibre can be fully expanded. A well-functioning infrastructure for mobile telephony and broadband services is a prerequisite for continuing to provide the opportunity for people to stay, run businesses, perhaps take part in teaching, practice culture – perhaps in community farms or People's House – and to maintain social contacts also in the rural areas of our country. Within the Rural Programme, SEK 3.25 billion was allocated for the expansion of broadband in rural areas. This money was to be used between 2014 and 2020. So-called village law solutions and fibre associations have been started up with great non-profit power throughout the country. This has driven and led to a cost-effective expansion. The interest in this money has been great, resulting in the fact that the funds allocated have not been sufficient for more than two thirds of the applications. In order for the ongoing digitalisation of the whole of Sweden to continue, the Center Party has proposed that an additional SEK 1 billion be allocated for an improved broadband infrastructure throughout the country. Madam President, I would like Something we have not yet touched on in tonight's debate is the question of the postal market and the package. As we all know, the postal market is undergoing a significant change. Technology shifts and faster communication have changed the need for large letters volumes. Rapid electronic communications have contributed to a reduced number of letters. At the same time, more and more packages are being sent. Because of this change, the letters sent may not have to arrive after a day, but it may be enough for them to arrive after two or three days. In order to meet this change, the co-distribution of mail, packages and newspapers would be both time- and cost-effective. This would also be positive from an environmental point of view, as fewer transport is needed. Newspapers and letters today have different times for delivery to customers. Our proposal involves the joint distribution taking place according to the time schedule of the current newspaper distributors. The proposal would also help to maintain and perhaps also increase services in rural and larger urban areas. Madam President, I would like The Centre Party does not take part in the decision on the allocation of budget appropriations because Parliament has already decided on a financial framework that is different from what we want. The views of the Centre Party on the allocation of appropriations are set out in the special opinion on our budget issue.
i-3a9f6152b54fe6a0-1551	Madam President, I would like The expression, like the train, is an accepted concept and a parable of something that goes well and that goes away. However, given how bad the situation is with the Swedish railway sector, the question is whether the expression should be, instead, like the car. Nowadays, comparisons with trains are more to see as something negative than positive. At the stations the calls are made about track faults, contact line faults, track line faults, track running, cancelled trains, train meeting and switch faults. Yes, the list can be made very long. We can see how government after government used rail maintenance and railway investment as some form of budget regulator. It is something that has suffered in the search for funds to finance the costly mass immigration. One thing that has also suffered is the number of workers on the track, out in reality. While the number of managers and administrators at Trafikverket has increased, the number of workers in the infrastructure has decreased for a long time. In addition to the fact that this involves maintenance and investments, it also affects snow preparedness. Although all important gears are equipped with elements at the exchange tongues, they do not have snowstorms. They don't have enough ice lumps to fall into their tongues. The switchboard cannot then be changed. You can't do that in control. These lumps must be manually removed by staff. When, year after year, the number of workers out in the tracks is reduced, it is not only maintenance that suffers, but also snow preparedness. According to Traffic Analysis, the number of workers in the infrastructure decreased from 2,708 in 2012 to 1,789 in 2015. Thus, about a third of the workers disappeared in this short time. This is not sustainable development. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats want to cut in the Swedish Transport Administration in favour of increasing the number of track workers and the number of training places in the railway sector. We also want to increase control and advice over the railways with a withdrawal of maintenance in our own direction. In the Swedish Democrats' budget, strong efforts are being made to improve the rail network directly. We have committed 1 billion annually to a so-called market pool. The aim is to be able to implement actions in addition to the national plan. This railway billion originates from the industry's desire for resources in order to respond quickly to the transport needs of the market. These could include the removal of bottlenecks, the construction of meeting tracks, the establishment of double tracks and similar measures. We Swedish democrats are also concerned about the forced establishment of Ertms on it for our ore exports so important Malmbanan. That's the next one. For several years, childhood diseases have hit the Botnia Line to a very large extent, and we fear that the same fate will be met by Malmbanan. Postponing this introduction would be desirable. Madam President, I would like In Sweden the democrats' Sweden you should be able to trust that the trains go and that they go on time. That is why, in addition to the annual billion, we are also allocating EUR 25 million annually to a reinforced overhead contact line maintenance. In many places there is still contact line that is 50 - 60 years old and would have been replaced 15 - 20 years ago. The wear and tear of trains and weather causes the overhead contact line to fail. The rate of recovery must be increased. We also want to see strong investments in safety through suicide prevention. Several miles of mirages must be added. Several miles have already been built, but there is much left to build. We want to eliminate more unattended transitions and accident-stricken level crossings. Every passenger accident is a tragedy and creates major disruptions in train traffic. Some other things in our policy that I would like to highlight are better mobile coverage along our railway routes, no to the Swedish negotiation, increased penalties for sabotage against railway installations, such as copper thefts, increased penalties for track running and that SJ should be required to open its reservation system to other train operators. The latter is very important for operators other than SJ to be able to cope with the situation; they do not have access to this sales channel. Madam President, I would like It is with great pleasure that I can see that the airline tax will be abolished with the help of the Swedish Democrats. Not only in ours, but also in the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats, this is an important point. Air transport is important for both domestic and international traffic. This tax charge laid down as a wet blanket over the aviation industry. We have already seen how Norwegian has closed down two US lines and how the line Stockholm – Skellefteå and SAS Gotlandtrafik have been under immediate threat. We see a need for several airports to expand capacity and to enable the operation of larger aircraft. In order for Sweden to assert itself internationally, we need to be able to handle the traffic volumes of the future but also the next generation of flights, which are increasing in size. We see Arlanda's importance as Sweden's largest airport. Arlanda is a hub for international and national business trips and is thus also a hub in Sweden as a growth engine. The Swedish Democrats have therefore proposed investment aid of 500 million annually to airports for the necessary adjustments. We also want to increase resources to the police at airports to strengthen security. To strengthen security, we also want to allocate more resources to adapt to US pre-clearance. For this we want to spend 25 million a year. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say a few words about bonus– malus, which has also been on the agenda here. The Red-Green Government has introduced a new vehicle tax system for cars, light buses and light trucks, the so-called bonus – the Malus system. The aim is more or less to create such large costs for households that you are forced to drive in small and impact-weak cars and of course to raise more money to the treasury. We are strongly opposed to this. We want to abolish this system, which scrotums the households. The vehicle tax is digging a deep hole in the economy for those who are going to buy a new car. In addition, the bonus is rarely passed on to families with children, as the type of car in demand rarely meets the family's requirements for electric cars. Instead, the bonus comes to the rich, who can afford to spend $100,000 to 300,000 more on purchasing a battery - powered car. A subsidy on these electric cars is also in danger of countering this objective, as the subsidy itself may not put downward pressure on the price. In addition, this subsidy leads to totally undesirable effects. Every fifth electric car exported this year has left the country within six months of its first registration in the Vehicle Register. Some companies have combed millions in super-environmental car premiums to export the cars out of the country after as short as 13 days. This is shown by the study of electric car exports carried out by SVT's Plus programme. To clarify the effects of bonus – malus I give a few examples. An ordinary Škoda Octavia 1.8 TSI receives an annual tax of SEK 5,976. A four-wheel drive and diesel-driven Opel Insignia Tourer receives a vehicle tax of SEK 11,728 a year. For the car enthusiast who wants to buy a Ford Mustang, the vehicle tax would land at over $21,000 a year. Usually these cars are driven for short distances, 200 to 300 miles [300 km] a year. Thus, this corresponds to a cost of between 50 and 100 mil (U.S.) for these cars. Add to this a constant increase in fuel prices! In the world of Swedish Democrats, a family should be able to afford to own a larger and safer family car, which can pull a caravan, can make safe overtakings and is spacious, without digging big holes in the family economy. That is why we are proposing in our draft budget the abolition of bonuses – the Malus system. We are strongly opposed to the tax policy of the Social Democrats and the Green Party. You want to punish the Swedish households' car ownership. In our Sweden, it is not only the well-known who can afford to own a car. The car is a necessity that we believe everyone who needs to be able to afford. Since the majority of the Swedish Parliament established a smaller financial framework than the Swedish Democrats' current Transport Committee, we choose to refrain from taking part in the decision.
