i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-10	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Oscarsson has asked me whether I share the police's and Tullverket's problem description, which Oscarsson describes, and whether I intend to strengthen Tullverket's powers to search for stolen goods. Mikael Oscarsson has also asked what measures I intend to take in connection with the problem of foreign theft gangs from certain countries that the police have highlighted and that the asylum system is being misused in order to commit crimes. Finally, he has asked what plan the government and I have to reverse the burglary speeches. Sweden needs to become a less attractive country for foreign crime networks that come to Sweden to commit organised criminal offences. Against this background, the government presented an offensive package of measures in this area at the beginning of February. The measures aim, among other things, at increased cooperation between authorities, possible criminal law measures with a stronger view of housing offences and systematic theft, as well as increased international cooperation. Combating organised crime is primarily a police issue, and action against this type of crime is an important development area within the Police Authority. The Government has commissioned the Police Authority to increase its capacity to combat organised crime committed by foreign crime networks. Within the framework of the mission, the Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Coast Guard will also analyse whether the authorities through closer collaboration between them may make it difficult for foreign theft leagues to commit crimes in Sweden. An initial interim report shall be submitted by 8 June at the latest. With regard to the issue of persons without need for protection seeking asylum, it is possible for the Migration Agency to give priority to applications that are deemed to be manifestly unfounded. At the end of February, the Finnish Immigration Service introduced a new model for the management of Georgian asylum applications, which has made it possible to dramatically reduce the processing time. After a record number of unfounded geor gic asylum applications in Sweden, we see a sharp downward trend in March and April. We are now down to the lowest levels since 2013. Although developments may need to be analysed more carefully, I believe that the work at least so far has produced very good results. In order to solve cross-border problems, we also need to cooperate across borders. The government is therefore conducting bilateral dialogues with a number of countries of origin concerned that citizens from these countries who have been convicted of crimes in Sweden should serve their sentences in their home country and not here. Such measures send important signals and are expected to make it less attractive in the long term to come to Sweden and commit crimes. Sweden is also actively involved in the operational cooperation that is ongoing within the EU to combat organised crime.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-15	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. As a member of the Swedish Parliament for the Christian Democrats in Uppsala County, I focus primarily on Uppsala County, not least when it comes to security issues. During this parliamentary term, I have had occasion to raise and discuss these so important issues on a number of occasions. In Uppsala, every other Uppsalabo feels insecure. The figure is higher among young girls, and it is unfortunately not so strange. In Uppsala we have major problems with gang crime, more shootings, the use of hand grenades and cars are burned up. The drug trade has a large turnover. In UNT, almost every day there are new reports on the growing problem of crime. Not least, it's about foreign theft leagues. Unfortunately, the theft leagues feel that Sweden is attractive to operate in, it is almost like a kind of paradise. The police do a good job, but they are too few so they should get the best possible conditions. Last year we had nearly 23,000 burglaries. About 3% is cleared up. In our neighbouring country, Finland, there were about 3,000 burglaries, of which 24 per cent were cleared. There's a huge difference. There are 5 1⁄2 million inhabitants in Finland and 10 million in Sweden. There are things we're doing wrong. One important thing is our borders. Here I would like a straight answer on what the Minister of Justice thinks about border police. In Finland, the border has never been abandoned in the way that Sweden has done. Finland also has better cooperation and greater powers to stop stolen goods coming out of Finland. Then my question is: what does the Minister of Justice think of the need to restore the border police in principle? Today, there is almost nothing. In one case after another, stolen goods are brought out, and there are very few controls, more or less sporadic. This is not acceptable. It's not enough to give someone a mission. This is something that needs to be addressed. Then there's another thing. For these theft leagues, penalties are important. We have approximately the same penalties as Finland, but in Finland the high penalties are imposed. In Sweden, it is the recurring lowest penalties that are imposed. Inbritt can give between 14 days and 6 months. If it's rough theft, it can give between 6 months and 6 years. All the time, we're on the lower penalty. Is it not time to commission the Crime Prevention Council to look at what it really looks like with the sentences imposed? What are the consequences for these theft leagues that repeatedly engage in stealing? They feel that it is very easy to operate in Sweden, not least because of the low penalties.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-24	Mr President, I would like to First of all, it is completely wrong to claim that Sweden has abandoned the borders. We have border controls in southern Sweden since 12 November 2015. They are now being carried out almost 100%, that is, virtually everyone who enters the country is being controlled. So to say that we have abandoned the border is completely wrong. Just recently, we also extended these border controls to you in the light of the terrorist threats that exist in Europe as a whole. We need better control of those who move across our borders. As a side effect of this, burglary in southern Sweden has also decreased. Some time ago we heard that they have fallen by 30%. This is due to – which Mikael Oscarsson is right in and which we all know – that a large proportion of the burglaries that take place in Sweden have their roots in the leagues that operate outside Sweden but operate in Sweden. We know which countries they are: Lithuania, Poland, Romania and Georgia. For some time now, we have been working very intensively with these countries. When we talk to the countries' representatives, they feel that it is a common problem that we must try to resolve jointly. One issue that has been raised in the past is precisely how Georgian crime networks use the asylum system. They come to Sweden and seek asylum. During the time these people are in favour of an asylum trial, they commit crimes. None of them are granted a residence permit because they do not need protection. But while they're here, they commit crimes. This was one of the issues we raised with the Georgian Home Secretary when he was here some time ago. I met him and said we can't accept this. We have seen an increase in the number of Georgian asylum seekers for totally unfounded reasons. These have been linked to different crime networks. We had a peak week 7 this year when 74 asylum seekers came from Georgia. It was great this spring. The Georgian Minister for the Interior promised that he would take action against this, as has now happened. These figures have now fallen dramatically. The latest weekly number we have is 3. So it has gone from 74 asylum seekers from Georgia to 3. This is because of both the measures they have taken in Georgia and what we have done. In Sweden, we have also made sure that the processing times are shortened. In the past, these asylum applications were placed in the usual pile being processed. Now these are in a fast track. The processing time has been reduced from sometimes several hundred days to today 22 days. I regard this as a very great success in terms of cooperation with Georgia. We also received a promise from the Georgian Minister for the Interior that they will begin to receive the Georgians that we in Sweden judge for these crimes so that they serve the sentences at home and not in Sweden. This is, moreover, a strategy that we are pursuing against all the countries we are talking about: we want to ensure that people serve sentences in their own countries. We are also deepening police cooperation with these countries. Furthermore, we have a strategy which means that we are increasingly trying to prevent the export of stolen goods. This is the background to the mission that we gave to customs, the police and the Coast Guard and that they will report to me on 8 June.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-30	Mr President, I would like to Foreign theft leagues are a huge problem. They account for up to 50% of burglaries. We have had major problems from the countries listed by the Minister of Justice. Now there has been a reduction from Georgia, which is a good thing. Unfortunately, we do not see any reflection from Poland and Romania, and a special effort made has unfortunately meant that the places in the detention centres are over. There are challenges with that too. I'd like to come back to the punishments that get so low. Is it not reasonable to look also at the crimes committed by these people and the crime they have been responsible for in their home countries or in other Schengen countries, if they are caught because of gross theft? This is now being ignored. Shouldn't you be able to weigh it all together? That is a concrete question from me. Then there is the issue of temporary social security numbers, which are also part of this crime. The Minister of Justice and I have discussed this before. The police have looked at 512 temporary social security numbers, so-called coordination numbers. It was discovered that these were the owners of 29 000 cars. The police want a limit to be made so that it is only possible to own one car per person and not like now that you can have 100 or sometimes 1,000 cars. There are cases where you have 2,000. The police also want you to legitimise yourself and not just be able to register a car and get a temporary social security number. Shouldn't we be able to do what we did in Norway? There the coordination numbers are temporary. In Sweden they just roll on. I raised all this with the Minister of Justice a year ago. Is something coming for change? In a year, such a thing would be reasonable. Nevertheless, the government has had the basis for two years, and this should have been arranged a long time ago. As far as borders are concerned, I was referring to something which was in UNT on 3 March this year: Although the gangs ship large quantities of stolen goods from Sweden, Customs is often hand-held. – Legally, we do not have the right to intervene when we suspect that someone is trying to remove stolen goods from Sweden, says Jonas Karlsson, expert at the Swedish Customs Agency. "It is illegal to steal, but the actual exit of stolen goods is permitted. If the law was rewritten so that the shipment became a smuggling offence, we could arrest the suspects. ..................................................... This is what I'm talking about. After the debate, we could go down to the harbour in Stockholm and see what I am referring to. I'm sure the Minister of Justice has already heard from the police and the National Operations Department that this is anything but workable and anything but satisfactory. It is too easy to remove large quantities of stolen goods from Sweden. The question is how does the Minister of Justice see that it is still at the end of May 2018 so beneficial for foreign theft leagues to operate. After all, the Minister of Justice says it's going to be harder. But why have the measures not been put in place?
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-39	Mr President, I would like to After all, we have taken the measures that I have just outlined. We have now started good cooperation with the countries we are talking about. This applies, in particular, to Georgia. With Romania, we are currently negotiating that they should ensure that Romanian citizens convicted in Sweden are allowed to serve their sentences in Romania. The same applies to Lithuania. I have personally had bilateral talks with all these countries during this time. We are now in the spring about to resolve these issues. Mikael Oscarsson raises a number of issues. As far as the penalties are concerned, we have set up an investigation to review the penalty value for burglaries and systematic thefts such as these. The report will be presented at the beginning of next year. So we are on our way in that part. Among other things, one should review what Mikael Oscarsson points to about the penalty value and the heeling regulations. It may also apply to access bans to shops. Someone may have been inside and stolen there before, and then the shopkeeper should be able to ban people from the store in the future. There is, as I said, an investigation in place. This also applies to vehicle registration. Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth has set up an investigation to make sure to make just such restrictions that I think Mikael Oscarsson is looking for. It would also have a major impact on the goalkeeper's problems. Mikael Oscarsson also mentions that there are a large number of people in custody. That's right. We have 260 more in custody this year than last year, and we have 98% in custody. It is, among other things, an effect of the force that the police did last year. Earlier years – not least during the period of the previous government – these people ran into the city and committed crimes. Now they are in the cage as a result of the punitive measures that we have imposed, for example for serious weapons crimes. Mikael Oscarsson's previous post mentioned shootings. So far this year, the number of shootings appears to have fallen by about 25 percent. The number of deaths resulting from shootings has almost halved so far this year. This is due, among other things, to the strength of the police, but probably also to the new tightening up of the legislation that we have gone forward with. We are by no means finished. We must continue to work on this, and this must, of course, be done on a broad front. But you should also nuance the picture a little. Mikael Oscarsson mentioned some figures regarding the burglaries. It is true that if you go further back and assess how the number of burglaries has developed, we see an increase. But it's not really about the last few years. Breaking into a villa has decreased by 6 per cent since 2015. I believe that the border controls introduced in southern Sweden led us to have this effect in the breaking-in statistics overall because the risk of detection then also increased for the type of criminal networks operating from, for example, Poland and Romania. On 8 June, we will receive a report from Customs, Coast Guard and the police. If the authorities believe that it is necessary for us to proceed further with, for example, legislative or regulation amendments in order to facilitate their work, I am of course very keen to do so. Here it is important to ensure that you have both the resources needed and the legal and regulatory conditions needed to crack this kind of crime.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-47	Mr President, I would like to As a matter of fact, the number of house invasions has increased by 43 percent in ten years. In Uppsala, the situation is even worse. There, burglaries have increased by 60 percent in the last two years alone. It is a terrible expression of everyday crime, which is sometimes used. It is a disaster for individual people with the purse-switching, all these huge amounts of shop-stealing, which is a problem not least in Uppsala, the burglaries in houses and car-incidents. This is grossly offensive and a disaster for the individual. Now the Minister of Justice says that this is going to be analyzed regularly and that you should look at the penalty values. There's something to be done next year. But now we need more action than this. For foreign theft leagues, penalties are an essential part. Is it that you only get one month's punishment if you defy an expulsion and come back again, it is clear that it is something you calculate with. In other countries there are completely different penalties. Now I would also like to hear an answer about the fact that customs is not allowed to arrest persons who are carrying suspected stolen goods and are not allowed to seize the goods. We here in Parliament and everyone who is listening to this hears that it is a Baroque situation we have. The law enforcement agency has to stand and watch while thieves drive trucks with stolen boat engines, forest machines or whatever it is. We can't have that. And what about the cameras that other countries have? It's something we've talked about several times. Now we have to rely on other countries to have these ANPR cameras. How long will it take? Norway, Finland, Denmark, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania have it – all our neighbours. But Sweden does not have it. Why?
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-52	Mr President, I would like to Even when it comes to camera surveillance, we're on the move. There is a process that is about us being able to introduce what we call border controls with smart cameras that, for example, can recognise registration plates. It requires some legislative changes, and it also requires investment, because setting this up is not free of charge. But this too, there is a process under way to do. It is wrong to claim that it is not a crime to take care of stolen goods, for example, to take them out of the country. Actually, it's the other way around. This could be some kind of fence. We're not going to spread the image of having to deal with stolen goods, because it's not. In just a few weeks' time, as I said, customs, Coast Guard and police come back to the government with an account of what they have done so far to sharpen their eyesight and be able to clear up more of these crimes as well as their need for additional tools to be more effective. It can certainly be that they need some legislative changes, and it can certainly also be that they need additional resources. This government has invested more money in police operations than any other government has. Only the increase this year of $2 billion is the biggest increase any government has made in law enforcement in at least 20 years. I would say that this increase in resources is very important. We will continue to ensure that more countries can receive them and be sentenced for crimes here in Sweden so that they serve their sentences in the home countries. We will continue to work closely with Georgia so that the crime networks from there will no longer be able to operate in Sweden. We will also take measures to prevent the export of stolen goods. This is, in fact, one of the most important criminal policy priorities of this government.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-57	Mr President, I would like to Jan Ericson has asked me whether I would like to take measures to increase security and improve the working environment for postal staff and others, and to ensure that postal deliveries can take place to the extent that they are intended, including in our suburbs. The causes of the problems in the affected areas are complex, and developments have been going on for a long time. Getting to grips with crime in these areas requires long-term and strategic work. This includes targeted actions against criminal individuals and networks, while strengthening crime prevention and security-building. The Government has taken several measures to ensure that law-abiding citizens feel safe and that important social functions can perform their tasks in the vulnerable areas as well. The Government has, among other things, commissioned a special investigator to consider and propose the changes needed to achieve modern criminal law protection for bluelight personnel and other societal functions. The so-called Bluelight investigation proposes, among other things, a new basis for enforcement, which means that the court should take particularly serious account of cases where the accused has assaulted someone by force or threat in or on account of his or her professional activity. For example, through the proposed penalty base, postmen, in the same way as other professions, receive increased protection. The interim report of the Bluelight investigation has been referred. In the field of crime prevention and law enforcement, it is essential that police work in the affected areas is further strengthened. In order to give the Police Authority the opportunity to increase its presence in vulnerable areas, among other things, the Government has proposed and announced a historic investment on the Police Authority in the 2018 budget bill of a total of SEK 7.1 billion over the next three years. The Government has also proposed in the 2018 spring amending budget an additional SEK 200 million for the Swedish Police Agency, which can be used for protective equipment and body-borne cameras.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-62	Mr President, I would like to In early March, a postman was robbed in the Hässleholmen district of Borås. Five masked young men took the keys to the mailman's vehicle and disappeared. This is just one example in the last few years where postmen have been attacked in the course of their work. Last year, several attacks on postmen, newspaper messengers and couriers were noted. In a news report in Ekot in December, Postnord stated that threats and violence against mailmen have increased. Another news from last year announced that Postnord temporarily suspended the delivery of mail in an area in Norsborg after a knife robbery against a female postman. Some time ago I met entrepreneurs who work with e-commerce. They stated that Postnord of and to have lists of addresses where they do not deliver letters and packages to the door. The recipient may instead pick up the mail at a nearby post centre or in a shop, even though the consignment would normally be delivered to the dwelling. I therefore requested a report from the parliamentary investigation service on how common it is that Postnord and other companies that deliver mail and packages refrain from visiting certain addresses due to threats or disturbances. The answer was that both Postnord as well as Bring Citymail and Post- och telestyrelsen state that there is a temporary suspension or change of delivery of letters and packages due to health and safety problems. Where there have been threatening situations, police have been involved and distribution procedures have been temporarily changed. For example, changes in routines have consisted in the delivery of mail and packages only in the morning when it is usually calmer. There have also been cases of double postmen being put in or postmen being accompanied by police on certain occasions. Notification to the Swedish Work Environment Authority is made according to Postnord only on certain occasions, depending on how serious the incident has been. A check at the Swedish Work Environment Authority that I did shows that the number of notifications has increased in recent years. In total, over 30 more serious cases have been reported in the past five years by just Postnord – cases involving threats, violence or robbery of employees. Of course, the problems of threats and violence in exclusion areas do not only apply to postmen, but also to newspaper messengers, couriers, taxis, transport services, caretakers, bus drivers, tram drivers and many others, not to mention blue-light staff, which the Minister touched on in the previous debate. Then I have not even mentioned all the store owners who are forced to close their stores due to threats, robberies or thefts. No one should feel threatened at work. Being able to get your mail, your packages and your daily newspaper, take part in public transport or travel services and get access to a convenience store is part of the security and welfare of all people in our society. This must never be allowed to be eliminated by threatening or criminal gangs. The government must take this seriously. The Minister of Justice spoke in the interpellation response of his actions to make law-abiding citizens feel safe and to ensure that important social functions work in the vulnerable areas as well. However, the only concrete point the Minister makes is an investigation into increased criminal law protection for bluelight personnel and others who are attacked in the service. This is of course a good thing and is something that we welcome from the moderate side, but it does not solve the basic problem. The government's efforts at the police are also highlighted. But the truth is that the increase in the number of police officers from 17 000 to 20 000 by the Alliance has now been turned into an annual reduction. During Morgan Johansson's time as Minister of Justice, 900 police officers a year have left the profession. Half of them have done so for reasons other than retirement. At the same time, the police authority considers that the government is heavily under-financing the Swedish police and points out that in 2021 there will be a missing 2 1⁄2 billion. Despite the need for more police officers, we currently have the lowest number since 2009, while the population is increasing and the police density is the lowest in ten years. How will the Minister of Justice manage to reverse this trend? If it does not succeed, how can everyday life work in our vulnerable suburbs?
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-72	Mr President, I would like to The answer to that question is that at least three actions are needed. The first is that the police are given the opportunity to gather together and fight the kind of criminal gang that we are talking about with a reinforcement of resources and better criminal law tools. The second is to try, among other things, to prevent the crimes and strangle the recruitment of the criminal gangs. You always have to have both parts. The problem with the Moderates is that you often forget that crime must also be prevented and that you only look at one side of it. You should also nuance the picture. Everyone should be able to feel safe at work. It is important to ensure that that security is everywhere, wherever you work. It should also be remembered that in many places we see an improvement. I visited the emergency services in Malmö just a few months ago and asked: Do you have any incidents regarding attacks against fire brigades and other rescue services in Malmö? There were no such incidents last year. They had had major problems six, seven or eight years ago, but not anymore, partly as a result of very effective and good preventive work in the affected areas. I also visited the rescue services in Södertörn a few months ago and asked the same question: are there any areas where you do not go to jail without having police exports and where you cannot operate? The answer to that question was no. Then they still have a number of vulnerable areas that they work with. When it comes to the ability to operate in those areas for blow-light personnel and others, positive examples are seen where it has improved. This does not mean that we are in any way in the goal, but that we must continue to work. If you are to succeed in breaking this, it is about being able to take away a larger proportion of the most criminally active individuals and simply make sure that they are in custody and do not run out on the streets. This year, the number of detainees in Sweden has increased by 260. There are 260 more people in custody this year than in the same period last year. It's a pretty big increase. That's an increase of over 10%. Some can be linked to the force that the police have made against the criminal gangs. But it is also about the amendment of the law that we made with regard to the serious weapons crimes. In the time of the Moderates, when you ruled, those individuals ran into the city and committed crimes. They don't anymore. Now they're in jail. We currently have 98% occupancy in the detention centres, and we need to expand the detention centres. That's what you have to do to crack gang crime. It is important to remove the most criminal individuals from the streets and ensure that they sit where they are supposed to, that is, in the cage. That's one part. The second part is to make sure to strangle the new recruits to the criminal gangs. Then it's about a lot of other things. It is about labour market policy, social policy and leisure and cultural activities to ensure that young people are not drawn into this type of crime. Instead, it is a policy of reducing the gaps rather than increasing them as the Moderates tend to do. For the police to be able to solve their tasks, resources are needed. We are currently training twice as many police officers as the Moderates did. You cut police training down by 90% over your time. Then you went to a much too low level after that. Approximately 400 to 500 police officers a year retire. You trained 600 – 700 a year. Now we have doubled that rate of education. Next year, 1 300 police officers are going out. We're going up another snap so we can handle maybe 2,000 cops a year. Then we will be able to expand the police organization as we wish, i.e. with 10 000 more employees by 2024.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-79	Mr President, I would like to There were a lot of grand turns from the Attorney General. He claimed that the criminal gangs ran into the city during the Alliance's time. I would just like to point out that both crime and the fear of being subjected to crime have increased considerably during today's government. The Minister of Justice is now repeating what he wrote on Twitter some time ago and which I drew attention to. He claimed that the Moderates had cut down on police training in 2008 to save money because we had so little control of public finances. I responded to this and noted that we had then trained the police officers needed. The police department itself said: Let's take a break from the re-entry. I also pointed out that the Moderates had extremely large surpluses in public finances in 2008. There was no need whatsoever to cut back on any police training. It is a fraud on the part of the Minister of Justice and not decent in a debate in Parliament. The Minister of Justice is talking about sharper penalties and more police officers, and that's a good thing. It is also good moderate politics. We welcome that. But we also welcome efforts to reduce exclusion. The gaps have increased during the time of the Minister of Justice in power. They have not diminished under the Social Democrats. Despite the boom, we see an increasing difference between domestic and foreign born in terms of unemployment, for example. There, the government does almost nothing. It's not enough just to talk. So far, the Minister of Justice's promise has not had much substance. It is necessary to ensure that the number of police officers is increased, to provide the police with the tools they need to combat crime and to impose stricter penalties. The Moderates have a number of concrete proposals on how to get more policemen, and we also want some of the new police officers to be placed in our most vulnerable areas. We propose paid police training, increased police salaries, police training in more locations and more roads to the police profession. We also allocate resources to 10 000 more police workers by 2024, half of which are police officers and half are civilian employees. I would like to take this opportunity to strike a small blow for my own constituency and Borås. There we have a very serious proposal for a new police training course. Gothenburg and West Sweden are Sweden's second largest area in terms of population. But there is no police training in the neighborhood at all. This causes some people who would like to train as police officers to hesitate to do so. If we had a police training program in West Sweden, we would be easier to recruit police officers in West Sweden. There I hope that the Minister of Justice will proceed with the application concerning police training in Borås. Otherwise, I would like an answer to why the Minister of Justice claimed on Twitter on 13 May that the Alliance cut down on police training to save money. It's a hoax. It is on the verge of a KU notification when you claim something like that in public. I would like an answer to that.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-85	Mr President, I would like to I welcome such a KU notification. I've been in the KU. I know what they're looking at. One of the things they'd probably smile about is if you went to the KU with this question. Jan Ericson knows what the statistics look like. The truth is that in 2008 you topped police training precisely so that you could clock in 20,000 more police officers by the 2010 elections. You may have had surpluses in the state budget in 2008, but then the financial crisis came after that and the effects of your major tax cuts in the first period. Since 2009 and 2010, you cut police training by 90%. I think you topped with over 1,700 seats in 2008, and then it went down to 142 in 2010. You reduced police training by 90%. Then you took back a little bit again and they laid down at 600 – 700 a year. This was far too slow, considering that 400 to 500 police officers a year retire. Of course, there certainly were economic reasons. But you're supposed to answer that and I'm not. My counter-questions to Jan Ericson are: Why did you cut police training by 90% during that period? Then why did you go to a much too low level? Why did you train only half as many police officers as you needed during that period? Those are my counter-questions. I think it simply had to do with your money running out. Tax cuts had broken out of state finances, and then tax cuts went before police training as it always does when the Moderates rule. There are certain things the Moderates never do in government. The first is that you will never be able to do the jobs. There will always be higher unemployment. The second is that you'll never make it through public finances. You always end up in big deficits. The third is that you never start any new police training. No moderate government has ever started a new police training program. When we started educations in Umeå and Växjö it was done by Social Democratic governments. When we start in Malmö until spring 2019 it is a red-green government. We're the ones doing it. We're going to start in West Sweden, where I know Borås is one of the candidates. We'll be getting the evidence in a couple of weeks from the Police Authority for where such an education should be located – and then it's also us who are doing it. Then you often join afterwards and say: This is a good thing. But you're always second on the ball on these issues. We will have police training in more locations, and we will also increase the number of places and people attending police training. As has already been said, we have to be able to meet the target of 10 000 more employees by 2024 from around 1 300 to about 2 000 per year. Jan Ericson says that we are doing nothing to prevent crime or to reduce the gaps. Overall, employment has increased over these years. The number of jobs in Sweden has increased by 300 000. Over these years, unemployment has continued to decline. We now have the lowest youth unemployment rate in 15 years in Sweden. We achieve the 90-day guarantee, i.e. that no young person needs to go unemployed, without education or without a traineeship for more than a maximum of three months. So we have achieved this. It's not something you work with when you're in government. I would say that the issue of the 90-day guarantee is probably the most important crime prevention measure we have taken in these years. This provides an increased opportunity for confidence in the future and hope for those people who might otherwise be in trouble.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-96	Mr President, I would like to I'll come back to the statement that we cut down on police training. Again, it was not the government that decided to reduce the number of places in police training. It was the Police Authority itself who said: Now we have trained the 20,000 that we have been commissioned to reinforce with. The Alliance had thus solved the problem by increasing the number of police officers from 17 000 to 20 000. Then they decided not to make any new intakes but instead to keep it at a level where you can keep the 20 000. I would just like to draw Morgan Johansson's attention to the fact that in 2008 public finances went by 148 billion in surplus. There was no need to cut back on any police training. Now comes the usual boasting of unemployment. I would like to point out that in a boom – one of the strongest booms in a very long time – we have an unemployment rate of around 7% today. In 2008, when we had the last strong boom before the financial crisis, unemployment was 41⁄2%. Then we were well placed to deal with a crisis. If we were to have a crisis today and enter it with 7% unemployment, we are in real trouble. Youth unemployment stands at just over 9% today. With regard to the 90-day guarantee, I have had debates with Ylva Johansson about the fact that it basically means that with a telephone call to Arbetsförmedlingen the guarantee is fulfilled. It is not a particularly powerful effort to help the most vulnerable who are furthest from the labour market into work. As far as police training is concerned, I would like to draw Morgan Johansson's attention to the fact that when the Alliance took office, we had had a total ban on admission to police training for a full semester. I cannot remember whether it was Morgan Johansson who was responsible at the time or whether it was someone else. But then there was a stop to admission; I remember that very well. It was one of the things we took hold of when the Alliance took office. I still haven't received an answer from Morgan Johansson. How will he cope with recruitment without raising police salaries and without making sure that it pays to become a police officer?
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-102	Mr President, I would like to Yes, police wages are rising! The Police Authority and the Police Federation have signed an agreement that is the best in the labour market. As early as this spring, this means a salary increase of more than 5 per cent. A special effort is being made on police officers present in vulnerable areas of external service. What is more, as I said, the wage agreement is already coming up. This is what we and the Police Department are working on. However, it is important that wage agreements are made at the level of the parties and that it is the authorities and trade unions that agree on this, just as it should be. And it has been done; such an agreement has been agreed. It is also a question of ensuring that the working conditions of the police are improved in all other ways. It's about career paths, it's about working environment and it's also about getting more people. A few weeks ago, more than 400 policemen graduated from the training, and in the fall, 600 will be out. We're starting the new police training. Right now, the window is actually open for those who want to apply for, for example, police training in Malmö. The unemployment rate is currently around 6.2%, and it has decreased throughout our period. As far as the 90-day guarantee is concerned, you made no effort at all in your time for the first three months. We turned it around and said: You have to have a bet within three months. Go to a school, Jan Ericson, and talk to the students there! Ask them how they see the future when it comes to getting a job! Many of the schools I visit, especially vocational training, have already been contacted by companies, and students have good opportunities to get a job. That's what it looks like. We have the lowest youth unemployment rate in 15 years. You can't help but smile. First of all, it had nothing to do with the state finances that you cut down on education, and now it was not really the Alliance government that decided on this, but the Police Authority itself. You cut down by 90%; at least that was the end result. That's what happened.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-108	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked me if I think it is a good idea to have a colour coding of car registration plates introduced in order to enable emergency services to know what fuel cars have when extinguishing car fires and thereby be able to carry out safe rescue operations. She has also asked me whether I am prepared to take further action on such a proposal or whether I have already taken or planned to take any other action on this issue. It is of great importance that emergency services and other relevant assistance agencies can carry out effective and safe response actions in the event of car fires. All cars have features that can pose risks to emergency services when extinguishing car fires. It is therefore of great importance, for example, that civil protection personnel know what fuel a burning car has for them to carry out a safe extinguishing operation. The Swedish Civil Protection Agency has participated in international standardisation work on labelling, symbols and intervention information for civil protection. The aim is, among other things, to provide information on which fuels different cars have. It is planned that the results of this work will be published in a report in spring 2018. The report will thus contribute to improving the safety of civil protection personnel. Most vehicle manufacturers have been involved in the standardisation work. Vehicle manufacturers design their cars, buses and trucks in different ways. By agreeing on a standard, manufacturers can report on what is important to know about a specific vehicle type in the conduct of a rescue operation. I believe that it is useful and valuable for the current security issue to be dealt with at European level with the involvement of experts and relevant stakeholders in this area. I therefore assume that the results of the work will, to the extent necessary, help to increase safety in the implementation of various types of rescue operations, including in the event of car fires.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-114	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The conversion of the fleet creates new challenges for emergency services and ambulance staff in the event of accidents. Depending on the type of fuel used, burning cars can turn into potential, potentially, bombs, which endanger both emergency workers and the general public. When a gas car or a car powered by fuel cells is switched off, there are different methods to use, but it is important to know what kind of vehicle you have come up with and what the car is powered by. The reason I have written the interpellation is a phone call that I received from a fireman at Västra Sörmland's Rescue Service. He told us that the extinguishing work at car fires is becoming more and more complex and risky, especially since the emergency services on site do not know what fuel the car has. Is it petrol, diesel, electricity or gas? This puts the emergency services at high safety risk, but also allows the extinguishing work to take longer, as each fuel requires its specific extinguishing. For example, if I understood correctly when he called me, it is that if it is an electric car, you have to bring a lot more water. It is therefore important that we, as the general public, such as the Minister and I, too, if we come first to the place and are to alert, know which fuel the car is powered by. Then they can know how much water to take out, for example. If it is a gas car, there is also a great risk of safety, and perhaps we, the Minister or I, may not even have to go there. The fireman raised a lot of concerns with me, and that is why I wrote this interpellation. He also had a suggestion that it would be easier to secure the extinguishing by equipping the car plates with a colour for the respective fuel. For example, an electric car could have a certain colour marking on the plate, and if you are lucky when you arrive at the wrecker you can still see the plate and the colour. This would give the emergency services an indication of how the fire should be extinguished, but it would also help us who are not rescue personnel when we alert 112 to be able to tell us what we see. I took note of a report prepared by the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness in 2017 called Brand in Modern Cars. Special factors to consider in relation to different drive systems – Advice for emergency services and ambulance personnel 2017. It should not be seen, it says very carefully, as a checklist for how to work, but I can imagine that it is a kind of lazy dog for emergency services and ambulance staff. However, I cannot see that there is anything in it that describes how to see what kind of fuel it is in the car, but only how to deal with the situation if it is an electric car or a gas car etc. The governing factor is always the risk picture and how to implement the operation both tactically and technically. Unfortunately, car fires have become more and more common. Some media task said that there have been more than a thousand such fires since 2016. In the past it was not as common, and you didn't see it in the media and so on. A large majority of landscaped fires occur outdoors, but should they occur on a car ferry or in a garage, it could have disastrous consequences, especially if it is a gas car burning. It would be very interesting to hear a comment about the proposal with a colour marking.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-122	Mr President, I would like to As I say in the answer, this is a well-known problem, which has also become more difficult because the cars now run on so many different types of fuel. This has been highlighted and international standardisation work is underway at European level. As I said, we will have a report this spring on how things are going, and it is important that vehicle manufacturers are included in that process. Sweden also participates with experts in this work via MSB. I hope that you can get some sort of system in place that allows you to get this type of marking – whether it should be registration plates or how it should be marked and what symbols or similar you should use are too early to say, but the work is going on. Not only can the propellant be concerned, but a burning car can also release toxic gases from the rest of the material that is burning. There is always danger of approaching a burning car. Airbags also pose a risk as they may explode under special conditions. Clearly, we must have a system in place that will allow emergency services to know as much as possible when they approach a car that is on fire or when they arrive at a road accident, and, as I have said, international standardisation work is under way in this regard. I would like to mention one more thing that is important for the future, in addition to possible markings and symbols. It is the system that is called the E call, so that the car automatically, if it has an accident and the airbags, for example, release, dials up for example 112 and alarms that there has been an accident. In connection with this, information can also be transmitted about the type of car that has happened to the accident. There you get data about what kind of car it is, which of course can be extremely valuable to the emergency services. There is a new EU regulation in place from 1 April this year which says that all new car models taken by vehicle manufacturers should have this E call system. It is a very good example where EU work has practical implications in everyday life for how we work with safety promotion measures. This provision has therefore been in place since 1 April. Otherwise, I would like to refer to the standardisation work that is under way and which we are, of course, closely following.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-127	Mr President, I would like to I think that this issue of E call and European standardisation was very encouraging news. At all, this must be something that is decided upon – whether it should be a label on the car or the like – from an EU perspective, because the fleet of vehicles is mobile. I read on firesafet.se, which is a web-based newspaper, that there are currently about 60 000 gas-powered vehicles in Sweden and that the number of fortunes is increasing exponentially. It should be remembered that gas cars are not involved in more accidents than other vehicles, but these accidents can be devastating. That the fireman who called me just came from Västra Sörmlands Rescue Service about this has to do with something that happened in the autumn of 2016, I think it was. The garbage trucks in Katrineholm municipality are powered by hydrogen, and a tank exploded in one of the garbage trucks. The explosion damaged three other gas tanks and gas leaked out all night. Due to the risk of continued explosions and large fires, an expert from MSB was connected. I remember they secured an area of several hundred yards around the garbage truck. It was not quite clear how to handle this, but what happened was that before you could tow the garbage truck, you had someone shoot the gas tanks to get all the gas out because you didn't know how much was left. On fire safety.se I also read that it was lucky that MSB got there, because otherwise the tow crew could have had a serious accident. If one had started sawing one of the tanks and a spark had come, the garbage truck would have exploded completely. So it is really also a question of towers having to get this knowledge. Our bluelight staff and those who work with tow trucks are often very good at taking on new knowledge because they have a great deal of commitment to the issues. But there must also be information about how to deal with such situations. There was a bus burning in Gothenburg, I think, and the emergency services had to climb up on the roof. Two staff members were taken to hospital because a shock wave threw them down to the ground. So there are great dangers of not having the right knowledge and acting properly. When the bus was towed, it was thought that all the gas had leaked out and that it would be possible to go in with an angle grinder. M one it turned out it wasn't completely emptied, and a damaged gas tank exploded. So there are more and more examples of this as we get more gas cars. I think it is precisely in the problem of the gas cars that one sees that major accidents can happen if one does not do the right thing and does not know what kind of fuel is actually in the car, the accident, that one should fix. It is a good thing that a great deal is happening at European level, because it is not just us in Sweden who must do something, but it must be done from a European perspective. I would like to send to the Minister that it must be visible on the outside of the car what fuel it has. Otherwise, we, the common people, will be exposed to the danger that we do not have that knowledge.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-133	Mr President, I would like to I think we agree that this is a problem that needs to be addressed. Civil protection staff often have the knowledge, skills and equipment to cope with almost any situation, but they must be prepared for it. They need to know as soon as possible what kind of situation they are facing, such as the type of vehicle they are dealing with. Here is the standardisation work at European level to which I can refer. It is about identifying what is important to know about the construction of a vehicle, so that an operation can be carried out in a safe and efficient manner. This standardisation work includes exactly what Lotta Finstorp is looking for, i.e. identifying symbols, colours and markings that can be used so that rescue personnel can quickly identify the fuel involved. In this work, Sweden actively participates with expertise through MSB, and vehicle manufacturers are also involved. It is of great value that this should be done internationally, at EU level, because it will bring the major players with it. It is, of course, a question of getting vehicle manufacturers on a common standard here. As I said, we are waiting for a first report this spring. We continue to follow this work. I think it is important to remedy this. If in the longer term we can make the E-call system work, it will be even more effective. Then the emergency services already know when the alarm comes in what type of car you are going to, and you get much more detailed information, not only about fuel but also about many other things. This, I believe, is the future of this kind of situation.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-137	Mr President, I would like to It feels hopeful. It has to be pretty fast, I think, because the industry is developing rapidly with alternative fuels. Hopefully there will be a label on the outside of the car in some way also for those cars that are not new. For new cars it will probably work out quite well with the technical possibilities we see, so that 112 already when someone calls there in some way knows what kind of fuel it is in the car. However, the general public must also be given the opportunity to provide the right information to 112 in the case of cars that are older and where the information is not transmitted automatically. I think there needs to be a real information effort. I am thinking, for example, of Emergency Response Week, which is now coming. That's where you can get a thing like this. Then information can be given to the public about some kind of marking on the car, so that you can give the correct information to SOS Alarm or the emergency call center you call.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-139	Mr President, I would like to I would just like to thank you for this debate on an important subject. I hope that we will find a solution to this. There is ongoing international standardisation work in which Sweden participates with its expertise. The vehicle manufacturers are on board. The very question raised by Lotta Finstorp, i.e. markings or symbols to enable you to know what kind of vehicle the emergency services are going out to, is also involved in the work. The report is due shortly. We continue to follow this work and hope that it can be done as quickly as possible.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-141	Mr President, I would like to Ms Lotta Finstorp has asked Minister for Employment Ylva Johansson what measures she intends to take to improve the skills supply of service companies. The interpellation has been handed over to me. Lack of skilled workers is a major problem for many sectors, not just service companies. In fact, the supply of skills is one of our major political challenges. The lack of skills in many professions requires broad action. Over the past few years, the government has taken many initiatives to enable more people to train and have had a special focus on more education leading to jobs in shortage professions. The vocational programme of upper secondary school is the basis for the supply of skills to industry and welfare, but the number of pupils in vocational education has fallen, including since the previous government removed the basic competence. The Government has therefore submitted a proposal to the Riksdag proposing that the professional programmes include the courses required for basic eligibility. Major efforts have been made within the framework of the Kunsk Apsliftet to address skills gaps. The knowledge transfer covers in 2018 about 86,000 state funded places in adult education, the university of applied sciences, the folk high school and in universities and higher education institutions. The extension will continue, and in 2021 the K u nskapsläftet will comprise about 100 000 training places. A starting point for courses within the university of applied sciences is that they should respond to the needs of working life. Higher education is created and conducted in close collaboration with local and regional working life. The Authority for Higher Education, which has the task of working to meet the needs of this type of post-secondary vocational education and training, decides each year on the training courses to be supported by the State. In the selection, the Authority takes into account the latest analyses of skills needs in different sectors, and the Authority also has extensive interaction with actors at regional level in terms of skills provision and training planning. The government has decided to expand the university of applied sciences by almost 50 per cent, from nearly 30 000 places in 2017 to 44 000 places in 2022, to better meet the major skills needs today and in the future. Universities and higher education institutions must adapt their educational offerings to students' demand and labour market needs. In order to be able to decide the latter, it is important that universities interact with the surrounding society, including working life. On behalf of the Government, the University Chancellor's Office has carried out a survey of how universities and higher education institutions interact with external parties on issues related to the dimensioning of education. The agency makes a number of recommendations to both the government and the higher education institutions. These recommendations are now being prepared within the Government Office. The government has also extended certain training courses to professions where a long-term shortage has been noted, including engineers and teachers. Among other things, the Government is investing in more training places to cope with the supply of skills. However, the regulatory framework in parts of the education system needs to be reviewed. On 8 March 2018, the Government decided to set up a study on the planning and dimensioning of upper secondary education. The aim of the study is primarily to obtain a wider range of education in upper secondary and adult education that better meets the skills needs. This is done, among other things, through regional planning and dimensioning based on the regional and national skills needs that exist. Today, education planning is usually carried out locally and covers only the municipality or, in the case of independent schools, its own school. A comprehensive dimensioning of education based on skills needs is often not done at all. J ag does not rule out the need for the state to take greater responsibility for upper secondary education. Efforts are also being made in labour market policies to improve the supply of skills in the labour market. Labour market training is an important contribution to tackling such labour market imbalances. The government has steered the use of vocational labour market training so that it is more clearly targeted at job seekers who are in a position to benefit from the training. The Employment Service works to ensure that labour market training is used to a large extent to meet employers' recruitment needs. In sectors where there is a shortage of labour, the parties have the opportunity to conclude fast track agreements with the Public Employment Service. The purpose of the rapid track is to utilise the skills of newcomers and at the same time contribute to the supply of skills in the field of shortage professions.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-148	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. That was a solid answer. The answers are usually not this long and complete. It gives a good overview of what has happened. At the same time, today I read the Swedish Business Administration's Job creators' financial statements, which are a painful criticism of the government's growth policy. I haven't had time to read the whole thing, but it's interesting to take part of it. Sweden is one of the world's leading knowledge nations and was judged in 2013 by the European Commission to be one of Europe's most innovative economies. This should provide a good basis for maintaining good international competitiveness and economic growth. Now we have a global boom. Sweden is doing very well. We still have to admit that. But we all know what the economic cycles are like. There is a recession, and then we need to be prepared for the difficult times that are coming. The policy must respond to several problems and challenges in terms of skills supply and education in order for Sweden to maintain its world-leading position. Almega's report, which I have read, is called How Sweden can remain a knowledge nation. It shows a disturbing picture. Skills must be found from other countries. We have expertise that moves to other countries because there are different parameters that make Sweden not as attractive as we might have a picture of ourselves. We haven't worked and founded properly, because we've always thought we're so good. That is also what the statistics have shown in the past. A few years ago, the World Bank conducted an extensive survey of the Swedish business environment. It shows that Swedish companies identify the availability of competent employees as the single biggest challenge. The most knowledge-intensive and globally competitive sectors are experiencing the greatest friction in the labour market and are increasingly finding it difficult to recruit skilled workers. It is clear that it hampers the growth of companies and Sweden, but it can also contribute to Swedish companies choosing to expand and develop operations in other countries because you simply do not find the skills that you need to have at home. It can be better economically to move your business abroad but also better because your skills are there. I think it is in India that 400 000 engineers are trained every year. It is, of course, a huge market in India. But there are a lot of highly educated people there, and it is a low-wage country. That's why you might move business there. Politics also plays a key role. It is about politics, about the conditions for companies and about training opportunities. Rigid and rigid regulations are not conducive to growth and the labour market in a country. It can also hamper global competitiveness and competitiveness. Labour costs are also such a factor. In 2015, the World Economic Forum made a measurement showing that Sweden is losing ground in terms of competitiveness. They point, for example, to a high tax burden, a lack of flexibility in the labour market and problems in the education system. What I would like to ask the Minister is: does the Minister think that there are political factors that act as a brake on growth? Is there anything that policy can do to facilitate this, other than what is in the answer?
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-160	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lotta Finstorp, both for the question and for the speech. I have to admit, this is a long answer. I acknowledge the flaw that Lotta Finstorp places on me when it is a very solid and full answer. That's what happens when you do a lot of things. Then it'll be a lot to account for. I believe that Lotta Finstorp and I fully agree on the importance of education and basic education in order not only to secure the supply of skills, which is the issue, but also to ensure innovation power and opportunities for Swedish companies to expand in a fierce international competition and to ensure that our welfare works. I also note that basic training is the basis for the skills supply of welfare, industry and service companies. Higher education has increased over a long period of years, but there are major problems with recruitment to vocational programmes in particular for upper secondary education. We can probably agree that full upper secondary education is a key to getting into the labour market and also a key to the provision of skills for businesses and the public sector. In a situation where the search pressure on our vocational programmes in upper secondary school has fallen dramatically, adult education becomes a strategic resource in the supply of skills. In fact, the adult education that is taking place in the field of vocational education and training is currently ensuring that we get more professionals, with different forms of secondary school-like education, from Komvux than we get from the upper secondary school's vocational programme. In that situation, I get a little bothered when I hear Lotta Finstorp's warm plea for the importance of education and contrast it with the budgetary efforts that the Moderates have made. For example, in the field of expenditure category 16 Education and university research, I see that you are cutting down by SEK 300 million in state aid for adult education. It is precisely the adult education that is so crucial today for the provision of skills for companies, not least service companies. I do not really know how that saving should be taken home – that is not clear from the budget exercise. But I can figure out for myself that this corresponds to some 6 000 state-funded training places in vocational adult education. I can also note that the Moderates are making major cuts to the important folk high schools. When a large group of young people leave upper secondary school without a complete upper secondary school degree, the education of the folk high school is crucial to ensure that young people have a chance to come back and get an education that leads to a job in the labour market and solves the skills supply. I have seen with my own eyes what important efforts are being made by the folk high school, not least in Lotta Finstorp's county of Sörmland. So I can see a big difference between the fine rhetoric that Lotta Finstorp delivers here in the speaker's chair – and which I really think sounds good – and the actual investments made in a budget where, on the contrary, the big money goes to major tax cuts.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-168	Mr President, I would like to You have to see politics as a whole, so I find it very difficult to have a rhetoric where you pick out some parts. I was on a study visit on Monday at the Installers' Education Centre in Katrineholm. Society's screaming for cold fitters. And they're having trouble getting students. They have a very well-developed education effort from upper secondary level to vocational adult and validation. They kind of have the whole width. This is only available in a few places in Sweden. You should now phase out old cooling technology in grocery stores etcetera. There is a lack of people who have the skills to do this, in order for it to correspond to existing legislation. There is also another problem. Those who currently have work in this industry – it's about control and control technology, cooling fitters and heat; it's divided into different parts – have work because it's booming. They don't have to get the paper. They do not want to leave their work to sit on the school bench and get evidence that they have this knowledge. The problem is not really that there are too few training places. It is about getting people's eyes open to the jobs where there are actually jobs even in recession. You have to look at it in the much longer term. Folk high schools do a great job. Then we need to get the young people to apply. Tax issues are my responsibility, but what I can do about this is that people are not in line to get into various educations. They do this to get into training courses for doctors and lawyers and courses at that level. But when it comes to vocational training, it is rather the case that the places are gaping empty. The study visit I was on was very interesting. That was incredibly good. It was a very good business. But there they were wondering, "How are we going to get this done?" The Minister's and my next interpellation debate are about validation. It goes hand in hand with this, you might say. How is it possible to get people to do this, especially adults who already have a job and who need paper on their skills? This is a shortcoming that is seen in various reports on the European Union, for example. As long as the wheels roll, most things go well. The unemployment rate in Sweden is low except in my municipality, Flen kommun, which has 14.4 per cent unemployment – it depends on where you do the impact somewhere. But the problem is more about getting people to start studying and getting their knowledge validated than about there being no places. I therefore think that the cuts that the Minister is making must be seen in a much broader context. These include apprenticeships, for example. There must be incentives for companies to accept an apprentice. Today there is an incredibly high pressure in, for example, the craft profession. It is not attractive to receive a person who does not have knowledge, and there is no time to guide that person. Then you might have to think about putting more money in just for companies and tutorials and so on. At the IUC, where I was, they also train plumbing engineers, who are at a high level. They make installation preparations and drawings for plumbing fitters to pull wires and so on. There will be such a small difference in the wallet for those who have been trained for years compared to those who may have attended one year of training to become a fitter, for example. It's all connected. One must bear in mind: Why do people not want to pursue higher education?
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-179	Mr President, I would like to I have to say that I admire Lotta Finstorp's courage to stand up and speak in Parliament's pulpit and talk about the need for companies to provide skills when she herself represents a party that has clearly said that it will say no to the bill that the government has put on Parliament's table with an important aim, namely to ensure that professional programmes become more attractive to young people. After all, the bourgeois government made a big mistake when the general competence was removed from the vocational programme of upper secondary school. I am absolutely convinced that the bourgeois government believed that this would work and that it would attract more young people to the professional programmes. However, the statistics are devastating. The number of applications for our very important professional programmes has fallen by as much as one third. The government has fought hard on this issue and made a proposal to maintain the professional programmes that we have. The breadth and depth of the professions should be maintained, but we should also add the preparatory subjects for higher education. The reason is precisely that this is what is needed if young people are to apply for vocational programmes. This is what the young people themselves say in surveys and studies. The most important studies in this area come from the West Swedish Chamber of Commerce and Worldskills, a cooperation project between the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, LO and the Swedish National Agency for Education. This is a solid proposal that has been developed with very strong support from almost all stakeholders. Everyone who knows what the labour market is all about is behind this bill. Now that the Alliance is looking for someone to support the Alliance's rejection of higher education qualifications in professional programmes, you have to look in Parliament's chambers. Then you will find a party called the Swedish Democrats who are prepared to support the movement of the Moderates and the other alliance parties, but otherwise there is a gap of supporters. Anyone who knows the needs of the labour market, all the entrepreneurs and employers who are going to hire young people from the vocational programmes stands up as a man and gives full support to the government proposal. I am amazed that the Moderates have changed their mind and left the position that they clearly stated here in Parliament just two months ago, completely reversed and are now supporting an alliance proposal that is completely unsupported by the employers in the service companies and in other areas that are actually going to employ the young people coming out of the professional programmes. This is an important issue for the supply of skills, because without a functioning vocational education in upper secondary school, Swedish companies and the Swedish public sector lose important labour. At least as important is that young people lose the opportunity to actually choose the programmes that can lead to jobs. I'm very sorry that the Moderates have taken this position. I am not for my own sake but for the sake of young people, who could have such a good future in the Swedish labour market with the fine professions that the upper secondary school vocational programme is training to. Perhaps it is even more for the employers and trade unions who are struggling with the supply of skills and who really need professional programmes that attracted more young people. My appeal to Lotta Finstorp, who I feel not only as a brave but also as a reasonable representative of the Moderates, is to have a chat with them at home. See if you can listen to what employers need. See if you can listen to what the trade unions say is needed. See if you can listen to what professional upper secondary schools, teachers, principals and students themselves say is needed. Redo and do the right thing!
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-188	Mr President, I would like to The hand to the heart, Minister, if we are to have the political rhetoric: Are you satisfied with what it looks like after these four years, given how few students who have approved knowledge from comprehensive school and who could thus enter high school? I can only look at what it looks like in Sörmland. It's far too low a qualification for high school. We have to start there, otherwise we can stand here and talk about what it should look like at upper secondary level. They can't even get into high school! They don't get into regular shows. That is where we have the basic problem, and we can go even further down the years. I made a locality report a few years ago about what young people in mills need. What you need is more prao. In the past, generations have been used to going to the same employer, but in recent years there have been major changes. I think that is quite right: to broaden the labour market. There is some study that shows that young people today can only list ten different professions or something like that. We must therefore start all the way from the bottom up and then match up and give the training that you need and that companies are asking for. These include, for example, ROT and RUT and further development of the reforms themselves. Not everyone should have to go to college, and not everyone can or does. Then there must also be industries and a society that provides opportunities for these young people and also for those who, in adulthood, find out that they want to do something else. There must be more employers to choose from in welfare and in services. One has to think in general terms, and I very much hope that the government can do so in the little time you have left in government.
i-9YkQcYizRx8AHAwuwsVFCm	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp is quite right that it is a big problem to get too few qualified for upper secondary school. But how can it be an argument to say no to a bill that has received support from the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, LRF, Företagarna, Svensk Ventilation, Transportföretagen, Trä- och Möbelföretagen, Grafiska Företagen, GS, IF Metall och Svensk Handel? Furthermore, the following organisations have spoken out against Moderates' opposition: 6F, HRF, Visita, Teacher Association, Installer Companies, as Lotta Finstorp himself mentioned, Foodstuffs Companies, Industrial Employers, Innovation and Chemistry Industries, Painting Companies, Transport Companies, Technology Companies, Sweden's Construction Industries, the Swedish Association of Forest and Rural Workers, a large group of academic researchers, the West Swedish Chamber of Commerce and the Swedish Students' Union. The arguments put forward by Lotta Finstorp for the unfortunate decision of the Moderates to say no to the government's very strongly substantiated proposal simply do not hold. The government is investing heavily in ensuring that more young people will pass their primary school in order to qualify for upper secondary school. We have also made huge efforts to ensure that young people who do not enter upper secondary school's national programmes through career introduction can get a basic start in working life through so-called professional packages. More than 60 professional packages have been developed by the social partners, which allow young people, even if they fail upper secondary education at the first attempt, to actually enter the labour market and to be employable and to gather strength to come back and get full upper secondary education. There is also one thing that really separates the government's policy from that of the Moderates: we do not want dead ends to be built in the education system, but we want education to always be able to lead on. Thank you for a good debate!
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-196	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked the Minister for Labour and Establishment what measures the Minister intends to take to increase validation opportunities for new arrivals and whether the Minister intends to take any further steps to review the criticisms that exist today from the business community regarding educational conditions. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. I agree with Lotta Finstorp's analysis that it is very important that the skills of newcomers can be used through validation. Validation is currently carried out in municipal adult education, universities of applied sciences and universities as well as in industry validation. The implementation of industry validation is the responsibility of the industries themselves, both in order to develop models for professional roles within the respective industry and in the appointment of validation officers. For a few years now, it has been possible for the industries to apply for funding from the National Board of Education to develop both competence profiles and validation models. The validation delegation was appointed in 2015 by the Government to follow, support and drive coordinated development work in the validation area until 2019. The mission includes identifying and submitting proposals to the Government that can strengthen validation work in education and working life. The delegation has presented A national strategy for validation, SOU 2017:18, which includes overall priorities as well as a number of assessments for the delegation's work in the future. In April, the delegation submitted an interim report with proposals for the university, SOU 2018:29. The sub-report has recently been submitted for consultation. The other focus areas that the delegation is working with are regional collaboration and coordination of validation, regulatory cooperation on validation and validation against working life qualifications, industry validation. In addition, a number of initiatives are under way in the field of validation: 中 Both the National Agency for Education and the Swedish Agency for Higher Education, MYH, have been tasked with promoting the use and development of validation in Komvux and the courses for which MYH is responsible. MYH has also been commissioned to support the industries in their work to develop and quality-proof and to provide information on models for industry validation. On behalf of the Government, the Swedish National Agency for Education has developed training courses on validation, on the one hand online education and on the other hand higher education. 中 The Swedish Agency for Growth is engaged in a process of validation for strategic competence provision. In 2018, actors with regional development responsibilities work on the basis of the Government's offer to establish regional structures for validation in all counties. The Government also invests in developing the work of universities and higher education institutions to assess real skills through specific assignments and additional funds. 中 Validation is a labour market policy programme since 2016 at Arbetsförmedlingen. Only approved validation models of the industries are used. Industry validation is also one of the stakes in the fast track. Lotta Finstorp's question about the criticism that exists today from the business community regarding educational conditions is made on the basis of a report from Ratio, the Swedish Business Research Institute. According to the report, some industry representatives in interviews have stated that the knowledge provided by upper secondary school does not meet the demands of working life. The report concludes that the industries have important development work ahead of them to formulate what skills are in demand. Working life also has great potential to influence education and training, including through the National and Local Programme Councils and the Regional Vocational Councils. Developing upper secondary education and vocational adult education is a continuous work that I and the government attach great importance to. The government is actively working with improvements in this area through these efforts.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-208	Mr President, I would like to This is very much linked to the issue of skills supply. It's actually the same question. If you do not get a good validation, it will also be a brake on the supply of skills in the future. Sweden's Municipalities and County Council, SKL, has established that approximately half a million people need to be employed in welfare until 2022. It is not only in preschool and school that the need is greatest, but also in municipal care. According to employers, the shortage of specialised nurses is particularly high. We see that this is the big problem in county councils and regions. It also allows operations to be cancelled and so on because key persons are not available. That's how it's growing up a rent market, obviously because there's a shortage of labour. The Health Association has reported on this issue. When there is a shortage of specialist nurses, the skills in healthcare are reduced. They have also warned that it may go beyond patient safety. Validation in highly specialised care is extremely important for those who come from another country, but perhaps not for those of us who have been around for a long time in Sweden. There it becomes clear what grades you have. Sometimes I think that when we talk about validation, the common man thinks that you hand over your rating and that it is translated and validated based on quality criteria to Swedish conditions. But it's also about making a person's skills visible regardless of how the person has learned. There we can put aside care, school and care. This is about personal qualities and knowledge acquired in other ways – other professions and in general. I have heard the Minister's reply, and I myself have tried to get back into the issue – I raised the issue last parliamentary term. It's so messy! Who really is in charge? There's a gap. It's getting too big, and so many people are involved, but no one points with the whole hand. In the next speech, the Minister will be happy to make a comment on how the Minister views these issues. We have had a proposal during this term of office to place responsibility for validation at the level of public authorities, such as higher education. There are so many different people involved. I'm sure it's good to broaden. Finland is a good example where it works well. But there is an authority that holds the questions properly. I think it might be useful for Sweden to do something similar. The industries are involved, and that's good. They should be. But there must also be someone who holds the questions from an overall perspective when it comes to what to do and how to do it. There is a lot of confusion about how the validation should be done – not to mention what it means to the common man. I met some Syrian specialist doctors in the square of Eskilstuna one winter a few years ago. They were devastated that their applications remained with the National Board of Health and Welfare, and they were going to start driving taxis. We in Sörmland are screaming for doctors!
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-217	Mr President, I would like to I thank Lotta Finstorp for an urgent question. Validation is really important. In her post, Lotta Finstorp discussed the important validation of various forms of higher education professions. It is true that this is an issue in which, for many years in Sweden, which I can judge, we have actually done too little. The government has taken a wide range of initiatives to really speed up. I can also note that the long processing times that existed a few years ago in our authorities have been considerably reduced, which I am pleased about. But it hasn't happened for free. It has been a great job to achieve this. I would really like to emphasise that validation is important for more professions than for higher education professions. It can even be said that for higher education professions it can sometimes be easier because there is some sort of grade. There is often some form of common and international standards for what should apply. These have been developed in the EU in particular. But when it comes to occupations that employers also shout for, such as sheet metal workers and nurses, all the important professions that are often trained in Sweden in the upper secondary school's professional programme, there is also a great need for validation. My first week as a minister I visited Borås where Ericsson had decided to make major reductions, which affected their factory in Borås. It turned out that the biggest problem the Metal Club had was that there were so many highly skilled workers who had worked at the factory their whole life, and they didn't have papers on how much they could. Validation will be important not least for the supply of skills to industry and the public sector. It is therefore a good thing that the government has taken so many measures and taken so many initiatives. After a long life where I have worked with validation in many different ways, I have come to the conclusion that it is more important that there are many ways into validation than that there is a single authority that holds everything. A single authority can never have the same overview as the social partners. When it comes to whether a painter from Syria, for example, has the skills needed to take a painting job in a Swedish painting labour market, the best way to validate is for a skilled professional teacher on one of our many professional programs to assess how they keep the brush, for the brush and can do the wallpapering. This painter can also assess what additional efforts are needed to enable the person to get to an education quickly and easily so that they quickly and effectively enter the Swedish labour market. I am happy and proud of the many efforts that the government has made, but I am far from satisfied. We have to do more. If we are to achieve this, the social partners, our adult education and polytechnics must make an active contribution. If I am to point out something that is valuable from what the government has achieved, it is precisely the new work on industry validations. We're speeding up from one, as I think, too low a starting point, but it's still increasing. There we can do much more to ensure that employers' needs for skills can be met.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-227	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. What is good in this interpellation debate is that we agree that it can be better, that solutions can be found to the problem. It is also a question of many newcomers entering the labour market. It is a socio-economic aspect, but it is also important on an individual level to have a job to go to. Many come with knowledge and skills from another country, but they don't have papers on it. What do they need to add to their knowledge? I was on a Presidency trip to Germany a few years ago and visited a high school with apprenticeships, and there it was just like that: good conditors, those who bake and do pralines, stood up when the students took a professional test. Then the students learned what they had to complement. It should be possible to do here. It is also about money and finances, but it should be possible to bring in skilled people who have their usual work in everyday life but who do this as part of their job. A solution must also be found to the matching problems of companies. Those who have knowledge from their home country or from Sweden but do not have paper on it must be able to find the entrepreneur who can help with it. I think this is rather messy, and I hear that the Minister also thinks that it is not entirely strict how it works. I would also like to know a little more about how the fast track has gone. How has it worked in Sweden? I don't know about that. I was thinking of something that the Minister in his previous role and I was dealing with in my previous role: the Lisbon Strategy and the process there. There is, of course, an international agreement on skills provision, validation and so on. It dates from 2003, but one could look at what it looks like in Europe today. What are some good examples where you have gone further? I am thinking of Finland, but perhaps there are other countries from which we can draw good examples. It is also an important part of our EU membership that we work together across national borders. The report that I refer to in my interpellation is written by Alexandru Panican, Associate Professor at Lund University, who has done it for Ratio. There, he writes, among other things, that most people believe that informal skills are the most important part of competence because they make the individual employable. It is important to have papers on what you have too hard, but also the informal skills, the social dimension, is extremely important in order to be able to become employable. At the same time, informal competence is not validated, but it validates what the individual can in terms of knowledge. I would also like the Minister to comment on this. Today, it is not possible to validate informal skills because there are no clear validation criteria to be able to do so. As a sociologist, I wonder what such validation criteria would look like, but perhaps we should take more account of this. In Sweden we are so incredibly into the formal at all times – you have to have formal competence. It is very important, but we make very little care that you can have other abilities that are not based on facts and what you can actually do in your education or professional life. In many cases, the researcher finds a lack of interest in, or even a distrust of, the models for validation of professional competences developed by authorities such as Arbetsförmedlingen and Yrkeshögskolan within SeQF, I think it is called. A little bit about that, please!
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-237	Mr President, I would like to I find it interesting that Lotta Finstorp takes up the Ratio report. Before I was appointed Minister of State, I actually joined a steering group for the interesting project that runs this, and I can really testify that here there is a lot of interest from both employers and employees and also from the successful Swedish working life research. Lotta Finstorp also addresses the EU's work in this area. In fact, last Tuesday I attended the Ministerial Council of Education Ministers, where we decided to update the important document that exists on the so-called key competences of the European Union. This is a work that the EU has been doing for a great number of years. A number of key competences are being developed that will help and contribute a great deal, both to validation and to equal work on mutual recognition of different degrees. I am pleased to see Lotta Finstorp that in working on key competences, the EU has taken greater account of the skills that are a little more difficult to measure. They are sometimes called socio-emotional competences, sometimes non-cognitive competences. It's about things like getting on time, finishing on time, taking leadership when needed and taking orders when needed – the kind of skills that employers often value very highly. They are part of the key competences. They are also widely included in our curricula and have done so since the 19th century, says an interesting study. According to world-leading research, they play an important role in people's ability to make a living throughout their lives and, in fact, also have a strong link with individuals' socio-economic backgrounds. So this is an important task for the school. Is it possible to validate the ability to arrive on time and the like? Let us return to a discussion on this issue. Perhaps I have a little more confidence in employers' ability to decide for themselves who to hire than I think it can be dealt with only within the framework of the validation process. Since Lotta Finstorp is calling for a concerted approach, I would also like to take this opportunity to point out the validation delegation that the government has set up. It is a work that has been carried out in very close cooperation with the social partners. We have ensured that the validation delegation has been led by people with strong ties with employers and workers' organisations. The validation delegation is working to gather knowledge and create an overview, but also to come up with practical and feasible proposals on how to strengthen validation work at all levels. I have to say that of the many initiatives taken by the government, I assume that the work of the validation delegation is what can in the longer term lead to Sweden becoming much better at validation than we have been in the last 30 years.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-243	Mr President, I would like to I have taken note of the work of the Validation Delegation, and I also believe that something good will come out of their job. They have already released interim reports and so on, which I have also taken note of. I also think it is difficult to validate socio-emotional factors. It is much easier to validate professional knowledge. But it is good that the EU looks at key competences and raises this issue. With regard to the second part, I believe, like the Minister, that a lot needs to be left to companies to hire and see what they need specifically on the ground – what, for example, you need to supplement in your working group and so on. Matching has been a word in time. There has been talk about finding a good match and about the quality of the match. In the Ratio report, Alexandru Panican concludes that matching quality can be increased by means of validation systems aimed at identifying the individual's real competence, regardless of how knowledge and skills have been acquired, and then matching with the required skills. It is, of course, the dream of being able to achieve it in this way, and it is clear that we must strive that way. In conclusion, I think it is very messy. I hear people who would like to get their validation done but don't know where to turn. Not everyone is unemployed, so you may not always come through Arbetsförmedlingen. You think, I've been working at a bakery, but I don't have a record that I'm a good baker. Then where do I go? The question is where do you go in society with the knowledge you want validated? I believe that this is an important information effort for the whole of society.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-248	Mr President, I would like to This is a different debate – I stand as Social Democratic Minister and tell Lotta Finstorp that the Moderates should listen to the business community. I also tell Lotta Finstorp that I think I see a bit of an overbelief in what authorities can do. I believe that this is a matter for the social partners and our Swedish model, with its strong attachment to those who actually employ and those who represent those who will get the jobs. I think that we should have a lot of confidence in the social partners, and I think that a validation that has strong support and is done in close cooperation with the social partners is much better placed to succeed than a validation that has only a government perspective.
i-ScJKi6KmRrk9kNxF6cVftF	Absolutely! ) I am pleased that Lotta Finstorp has asked this question and also the previous question, because it shows that we have a common conviction that we need to work more with skills provision and to strengthen validation if Sweden is to succeed well as a knowledge nation. I would like to thank you very much for both of these questions and thank you for the opportunity to present the government's policy, which in these areas is consistent and also has the very strong support of those to whom it is important to listen: our trade unions and our employers.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-251	Mr President, I would like to Yasmine Posio Nilsson has asked me whether I intend to ensure that human rights issues are raised at the June meeting with representatives from Iran. Furthermore, Yasmine Posio Nilsson has asked me whether I am of the opinion that there is no conflict of interests in an increase in trade with Iran in relation to Sweden's policy for global development, what is called the PGU. There is no doubt that the human rights situation in Iran is very serious. The execution of a large number of capital punishments, the existence of torture, a lack of legal certainty, discrimination against women and girls, insufficient respect for the human rights of minorities, a lack of trade union rights and the imprisonment of activists and oppositionists are deeply worrying. The government's position in these matters is very clear. The country report on the human rights, democracy and rule of law situation in Iran prepared by the Ministry of Trikes in 2017 clearly demonstrates the serious human rights situation in the country. Sweden addresses human rights in all political contacts with Iran, most recently at Cabinet Secretary anni Söder's visit to Tehran on 6 May 2018, when she met the Iranian Foreign Minister Zarif. I and Foreign Minister Wallström also addressed the human rights situation in Iran, with a particular focus on women's and girls' rights, at our meetings on 16 and 17 April with Iran's Vice-President in charge of women's affairs, Massoumeh Ebtekar. The human rights situation in Iran was also highlighted at the meeting of Oscar Stenström on 22 February 2018 with a visiting Iranian trade delegation led by Iran's Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs Khazaei. The possibility of trade union organisation is lacking in Iran, and many trade union activists and leaders are imprisoned. This was also mentioned at the visit of the Cabinet Secretary to Iran on 6 May. It was also mentioned at both the Prime Minister's and my meetings during our visit to Iran in February 2017. Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström also mentioned the importance of respecting trade union rights during her meeting with Iran's Foreign Minister Zarif during her visit in June 2016. The government will continue to be clear and have a straight dialogue with Iranian representatives on the issue of the human rights situation in Iran. Also at the June meeting, to which Yasmine Posio Nilsson refers, the MR will be discussed. This is a joint Commission meeting with Iran, scheduled for Tehran at the end of June. The Swedish delegation will be led by my Secretary of State, Oscar Stenström. Prior to the meeting, the National Board of Trade has been tasked with investigating companies' perceived barriers to trade. The aim of the meeting is to promote trade with Iran. This is part of the government's ambition to have a broad relationship with Iran, which includes trade, human rights and security issues. A broad and versatile exchange enables broad discussions. During the meeting, MR, social responsibility and corporate social responsibility, what is called Corporate Social Responsibility, will be lifted. I am therefore of the opinion that it is possible to promote increased trade with Iran while pursuing Sweden's policy for global development and Agenda 2030. Increased trade and deeper bilateral exchange open the way for dialogue on issues where we disagree. The policy of isolation directed at Iran in recent decades, which the United States is now once again advocating, has hindered dialogue, strengthened the conservative forces in Iran and not led to any positive progress in respect for human rights, democracy and the principles of the rule of law. Through dialogue, combined with clear messages, we can help to bring about positive developments. Swedish companies also have an important responsibility. To help companies in their work on CSR, including respect for human rights, the government has developed an action plan for entrepreneurship and human rights. The Government's work for increased economic exchange with Iran is thus also part of its work to strengthen respect for human rights in Iran and is consistent with Sweden's policy for global development.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-261	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister Ann Linde, for taking the situation in Iran seriously in the government! I would like to begin by explaining what prompted my questions, and then I would add some new ones that have arisen. Iran is undoubtedly one of the hardest and most authoritarian dictatorships of our time. Human rights violations are numerous, extensive and systematic. There are no free zones from repression in Iranian society, but ethnic and religious minorities, LGBT people, trade unionists and supporters of opposition groups are among those most affected by the abuse. The oppression of women and girls is systematic and permeates all parts of Iranian society. According to Amnesty, in 2017 alone, at least 507 executions were carried out. Several of the executed were children. One of those who have received a death sentence that has not yet been executed is Ahmadreza Djalali, who is a doctor and researcher in disaster medicine. He is an Iranian and now also a Swedish citizen. Ahmadreza Djalali has lived in Sweden with a wife and two children since 2009. He defended his PhD in emergency medicine at Karolinska Institutet in 2012. We in the Left Party have on various occasions asked the government what is being done to lift Iran's death sentence, and we would like to stress once again that it is important that the matter be raised again on this occasion. However, Iran not only acts against its own population but also supports various terrorist groups, such as Hizbollah and Hamas, which operate in Lebanon and Gaza. Iran also participates in a number of wars in the immediate region. Iran was the single largest recipient of Swedish export credits in the region under the Reinfeldt government, so I am not blaming you for that. Between 2006 and 2012, EKN issued guarantees for business with the Tehran regime for more than SEK 15 billion. Following the popular protests in 2009, Bloomberg noted that Swedish Ericsson and British Creativity Software sold surveillance equipment to Iran. According to oppositionists in Iran, Ericsson's equipment helped the regime track down people who participated in the protests through their phone calls, text messages and emails. Sweden continues to carry out extensive activities to promote exports to the country. This takes the form of advice, export credits and export guarantees through bodies such as Business Sweden, the Export Credit Board and Swedish Export Credit. Amnesty, among others, has criticised this activity for not being clearly linked to the work on human rights. The reason why my questions arise is that you do not make it clear in the text on the website that you intend to raise Iran's systematic violations of human rights during the trip. My questions have you answered, Ann Linde, but new ones come up when I listen to the answer. In her reply, the Swedish Government, Ann Linde, says that the dialogue created by trade will help Sweden to lift Iran's human rights violations. Then I wonder: has there been any improvement in terms of human rights? My next question is: Will Oscar Stenström meet with human rights organisations or civilians on site? Has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or any of the ministers on any of the trips met with human rights organisations or civilians on site? Why, or why not? Finally, I wonder how the government intends to act if Swedish companies in Iran do not comply with the government's prepared action plan for entrepreneurship and human rights, which will help companies to work with social responsibility and respect for human rights.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-272	Mr President, I would like to The human rights situation is, as I said, very serious in Iran. Ethnic and religious minorities, oppositional and trade union representatives are severely vulnerable. Sweden's position on the death penalty is well known. The government condemns the application of the death penalty in all its forms. It is an inhuman, cruel and irreversible punishment, which is contrary to human rights. The EU is a driving force in the abolition of the death penalty, and Sweden is actively involved in the EU's work. The widespread application of the death penalty in Iran is very worrying. The government has been clear on these issues. In our dialogue with Iran, we make clear the shortcomings we see – in all meetings, in all journeys and in all the participation of Iranian representatives. For us to be able to address the shortcomings in terms of MRs, we need to have a dialogue. The government's starting point is that it is through exchange and commitment combined with clear messages that we can contribute to positive development. It is therefore important to have a dialogue also with those countries with which we do not agree in all respects. It is against this background that our commitment to Iran should be seen. We also regularly raise individual cases of human rights violations in Iran through the EU and bilaterally. Through our embassy in Tehran, we are taking part in joint EU missions by the Iranian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the judiciary. The death penalty is a particular priority in this work. We have also raised several cases where trade union representatives have been imprisoned for their activities. With regard to the question of what the government is doing for the imprisoned KIC researcher in Iran, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs is continuously addressing high-level cases with representatives of Iran, both in Stockholm and in Tehran. In our contacts, we present with emphas Sweden's and the EU's view of the death penalty. Sweden is calling for the death sentence against Ahmadreza Djalali not to be enforced, and we, together with the rest of the EU, have protested against the punishment on repeated occasions. We continue our consular efforts for Ahmadreza Djalali and request continuous permission to visit him.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-278	Madam President, I would like Thank you, for the answers, Minister Ann Linde! It is good that you make it clear that you have clearly lifted the death penalty and that you will continue to do so. We welcome this. I would like to raise once again the question of the dialogue that, according to the Government, was made possible by trade between Sweden and Iran. Ann Linde says in her answer:, the policy of isolation directed at Iran in recent decades, which the United States is now once again advocating, has hindered dialogue, strengthened the conservative forces in Iran and not led to any positive progress in respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. Through dialogue combined with clear messages, we can contribute to positive development. ..................................................... Nor do we in the Left Party believe that a ban on investment in or trade with Iran would be conducive to the fight for democracy and human rights, but we believe that great caution must be exercised when dealing with or investing in a country such as Iran. Sweden's export promotion must never contribute to the benefit of the regime in Iran or to the violation of human rights. We have previously exercised that the Swedish Government should initiate a dialogue with the Swedish companies operating in Iran regarding human rights, and now the government has developed an action plan for those companies that invest in or trade with Iran. This is very good. However, I still wonder, as I do not think I really got an answer to that question before: how does the government intend to act if the Swedish companies do not comply with this action plan? As I said in my previous speech, according to Amnesty, in 2017 there have been at least 507 executions in Iran, including several of the children. The systematic violations of women and girls, ethnic and religious minorities, LGBT people, trade unionists and sympathisers of opposition groups have continued with unabated strength, despite the trade and the fantastic dialogue that Minister Ann Linde says Sweden is using to lift up the systematic violations of human rights. It is clear that what Sweden and the rest of the world have done has not been enough. I am still curious about whether the government's efforts and the attempts of the outside world have reduced the systematic violations of human rights and how Minister Ann Linde intends to increase Sweden's efforts to influence the Iranian government.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-284	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by talking about how the nuclear agreement and the reintroduction of sanctions will have a negative impact on Swedish companies and exports and what this means for the dialogue. Having been to Iran, I myself can testify to how important and possible it is to have a dialogue on human rights issues as well as trade union rights and women's rights. We can see that Swedish companies have made it possible for Iranian women to enter working life in a way that they have not done before. H&M was the first company to let women work in their business. Ikea has let women become bosses and work at night. There has been a direct positive impact on women's rights from the fact that Swedish companies are there. On the other hand, the US's decision to leave the nuclear agreement and reintroduce the sanctions will affect Swedish companies' ability to be in Iran and thus the ability to get Swedish values very negative. Our trade with Iran doubled after the agreement. Our exports quadrupled after the sanctions were removed. Now that Mike Pompeo, who is the US Secretary of State, confirmed that they will impose severe sanctions on Iran, this will have very negative consequences. I therefore welcome the fact that the High Representative of the European Union, Federica Mogherini, has been clear in her response to Mr Pompeo's speech, underlining the unity that prevails in the European Union. Mr Mogherini also says that there is no alternative to the nuclear agreement. In close consultation with our partners in the EU, the government is now analysing in detail the consequences for Sweden and Swedish companies. Together with the EU, Sweden will do what we can to try to limit the impact of sanctions on Swedish and European companies. The government welcomes the initiatives taken in Brussels, including the so-called blocking order. This is an important political signal from the European Union. The issue is now being addressed at the highest level in the EU and will be addressed at the Foreign Minister's meeting to be held on Monday, 28 May. There are no decisions made yet, but it is important that we act together. While the government is doing all this to reduce the impact of the reinstated sanctions, I would warn against a belief in simple solutions. As payments to and from Iran are made impossible in practice, it will be very difficult to carry out business. We have not yet seen any concrete proposals to solve this problem. Companies from other countries also signal major problems. One example is the French Total, which is one of the largest investors in Iran and has now announced their withdrawal. In addition to initiatives taken by the Commission, the government, together with the rest of the EU, will continue to promote trade and promote a broad dialogue with Iran, including, of course, human rights, in order to ensure that Iran remains in the agreement. The planned so-called Joint Commission meeting mentioned by the interpeller is part of this work.
i-1zGjQfcfRDEqd8ozrE9W3	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Ann Linde, for the answers! It's unfortunate that Trump is abandoning JCPOA. It is highly irresponsible, and we welcome the fact that both Sweden and the EU are working actively to at least try to maintain a dialogue on it. I would like to stress that it is extremely important that those who need support in Iran, namely the civilians, receive even more support from Sweden and that, in addition to the dialogue being conducted, the government needs to draw up more plans on how to press on the Iranian regime so that they stop violating human rights. Sweden also needs to work in collaboration with other countries to ensure that more people do the same. It is true that this is being done in the EU in the context of the JCPOA declaration and that it should try to maintain it. The other day, however, I was told that there is an attempt to separate the dialogue on human rights issues and the JCPOA declaration. You need to steer this work up a little bit more and be clear about why it is so incredibly important. We can see that the dialogue that has been conducted so far has not produced any results, even though there are companies that have employed women, which is fantastically good. People are still condemned to death. Women, girls and minorities are still subjected to systematic violations in Iran. Iran is still straining conflicts in neighbouring countries. We must use all the possible routes to put an end to it.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-296	Madam President, I would like For Iran, the relief of sanctions in the Nuclear Technology Agreement provided an opportunity to open up the country and improve relations with the outside world and improve the economy. For Sweden and the EU, it also means that we have been able to deepen the dialogue with Iran on human rights. The government welcomes the agreement and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) has repeatedly confirmed that Iran is living up to its commitments. At the same time, we have been clear that the agreement must be followed by improvements in Iran's very serious human rights situation. The agreement has strengthened the pro-reform forces in Iran. They promote greater openness towards other countries and work relatively more to strengthen, for example, the role of women in society. When I met the Iranian Vice-President in charge of women's affairs in April, we had a constructive dialogue on, among other things, the importance of women's presence in the labour market. The current administration has introduced a new drug law aimed at reducing the application of the death penalty to criminals who were minors at the time of the crime. As I said, the human rights situation in Iran is undoubtedly very serious, even with a reform-friendly government in place. However, improving the human rights situation takes a long time, especially in a country where there are strong conservative forces within the government that are trying to discourage progress on human rights. But a reform-friendly administration is better than a conservative one. That is why I am concerned that the US decision to leave the nuclear agreement risks strengthening the conservative forces in Iran.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-302	Madam President, I would like Lotta Finstorp has asked the Minister for Justice and Home Affairs whether the Minister believes that responsibility for recovery should be clarified and what measures the Minister intends to take to clarify the responsibility. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The Government decided in 2014 on a three-year initiative to improve medical safety and care in connection with care in accordance with the Act (1976:511) on the care of intoxicated persons, etc.( LOB) The aim was to stimulate county councils, municipalities and the Police Authority to jointly develop alternative solutions for taking care of persons under 18 years of age. The aim was to change practices so that fewer people would be taken into custody and taken care of in other ways. The idea was also to facilitate and motivate the continued support and treatment of the patients. The investment amounted to SEK 35 million per year during the period 2014 – 2016. The Swedish Agency for Health and Care Analysis (Vårdsanalys) has been commissioned by the Government to follow up on the three-year initiative for improved support and treatment interventions in care according to LOB. As Lotta Finstorp says, the health care system's prerequisites for taking care of people that the police bring to them vary, both within and between county councils. However, the report also shows that there has been a positive development, particularly in terms of cooperation. 15 counties within the initiative have developed agreements between, for example, the Police Authority, the county councils and the municipalities. There is a consensus among representatives that the agreements, together with other initiatives within the framework of the initiative, have contributed to cooperation between the parties being either initiated or developed. In several counties, the initiative has meant that the police, healthcare and social services cooperate with each other for the first time in terms of care according to LOB. Although there are still challenges to ensure that people who are cared for under the LOB receive adequate and safe responses, the Government believes that the state initiative has had an impact and that the local and regional development work that has been initiated is now taken by the county councils, the Police Authority and other relevant actors. The Government now intends to follow the actors' continued work and developments in the matter.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-306	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Each year, the police take care of approximately 60 000 intoxicated persons under the Act on the Care of Intoxicated Persons, LOB. The number has remained largely unchanged since 2007. Fortunately, however, the number of people cared for under 18 years of age has fallen by 65 per cent since 2007. We shall certainly be pleased about that. There are great geographical differences, as the Minister says in his reply, both in terms of numbers and the proportion of people taken to care. The majority of care takes place in metropolitan areas, but in relation to the population, most care is provided in other counties. According to the Care Analysis follow-up, which is an excellent writing where many facts as well as good and thoughtful things are addressed, there is still a vast majority being taken to arrest. In 2015, under ongoing investment, 88 per cent were taken to arrest. That's remarkable. If people are taken to detention or care depends on geography and access to care, whether they are outward-looking and so on. So the police make a balance in any case where to drive the people. At the same time, this is largely governed by geography and the availability of sobering units. Arresters do not have the necessary medical skills, and the police are extremely concerned that the issue of responsibility – who has the ultimate responsibility for persons cared for by intoxication – must be resolved as soon as possible. I am a member of the Police Transparency Council, and we were given a brief presentation on the evaluation and follow-up of healthcare analysis. We also received a statement that this is a very important issue. It is also a question of a medical risk if you are taken to prison where there are staff who do not have the necessary medical knowledge at all. But it is also a question of making it more difficult to catch up with those who need support, care and treatment for their addiction or addiction. It becomes even more clear when you know that one in five people taken care of has been taken care of more than once. A person comes to the brig, sleeps the rush off and then is released. But there is no follow-up or support about the abuse. In addition, every year people who have been taken care of die according to the LOB. There are statistics in themselves from the police alone. It may be that the person who has been taken to care and died may have died because of his abuse. This can't be found, but the police have a stats. According to it, 12 LOBs have died in detention during the past five years, and the average age of these has been 40 years. There are also deaths in the care of people who have been taken there when they have been taken care of, but there are no statistics – instead, there is more if you have died of a heart attack and so on, but the reason behind it is not included. Then you can think that if a person is arrested and comes to the brig as LOB:ad, i.e. taken care of because it is drunk, you must also ensure that that person does not, for example, have underage children at home. So it also takes a social science knowledge to ask these questions and find out about them. If there are underage children, help is really needed in that family.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-315	Madam President, I would like Thanks for a good interpellation, Lotta Finstorp! I'm sure you're well aware of the background to our landing in this LOB initiative. As you may remember, a major drug investigation was conducted for three years by Gerhard Larsson. He made his proposals in 2011, and one of the proposals was the introduction of a special abuse law. The proposal meant very concretely that county councils should be given clear responsibility for treatment interventions, including sobering units, and that municipalities should be given clear responsibility for the social support measures linked to these people. At the same time, after some time, it was found that there was no clear support – it was the then government's assessment – to implement the reform. Instead, it chose to go forward with the parts of the investigator's proposal that were about improved interaction between the principals in relation to addicts and addicts. What was also done, however, was that there was a requirement for interoperability agreements, both in the Social Services Act and in the Health Care Act, of the type that exists for people with a mental disability, for example. However, since the county council's responsibility for the regeneration units was not specifically regulated, it has continued to be up to the county councils to decide on the establishment of such units. Then one can say that, in order to support the heads of government in the work on the voluntary agreements, we initiated the LOB initiative in 2014– I referred to it in my reply – of 35 million annually. As a result, we have reached agreements in several places. One example is the collaboration agreement that now exists between Polisregion Stockholm, Dependent Centre Stockholm, Capio Maria, the social services in Stockholm City and the health care administration. It is an agreement aimed precisely at reducing the risk of medical complications associated with care. I also note, as Lotta Finstorp did at the beginning, that we are quite steady at 60 000 such care every year. However, it is very gratifying that we are seeing a gradual reduction in the number of children under the age of 15. In addition to the 15 local agreements now in place in 15 counties, development efforts under this initiative have begun in various areas. These include, for example, the development of sobering units within county councils, but also the development of, for example, screening tools for the police to assess whether the individual in question has a care need. It has also been about training of police officers in this area and about some mobile care units, as well as more health professionals in connection with arrest. So we see that the initiative has had an impact, and we see that things are moving in the right direction. As Lotta Finstorp mentioned, the figure for how many people are seriously injured in arrest is quite steady on four to six cases a year. This year, three cases have so far been notified. I was going to come up with a pilot project in my next speech.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-322	Madam President, I would like I read in the follow-up that as early as 1968 there was an investigation called Bot or a fine, which stated that police arrest is not a suitable place for the care of a drunk person. So this is not a new issue in any way. As the Minister says, there are about 60 000 cases a year, and that has been for many years. When I worked in the social services in the 1990s, it was so – I'm not sure what the routines are today – that the social services were announced when someone had been LOBed. In fact, we would decide whether the person in question would be allowed to keep his driving licence, and then it was also a way to get in touch and start talking about the whole situation. It is possible that it is done, but I do not believe that there are any guidelines at national level. Instead, it is more up to each social administration how to work that way. When it comes to sobering units, it is where professionals on these issues are located, and more are needed – at least in smaller locations. In Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö there are perhaps police clinics and special sobering units where you are used to drunk people, but in the country it is the emergency department that these people are taken to. It's not appropriate. In the emergency room are people who have other, physical, problems and who can feel great fear if the police come with someone who is drunk, aggressive and so on. There were sobering units in more places before, and I think it would be very good if you looked at it further. The effort was good, but it had to continue. They find that cooperation in the counties has improved, but what is the definition of cooperation? What are we talking about? It is still the case that it is unclear in the legislation who has the ultimate responsibility for these people. This is where the police flag the issue. We need to keep working on finding the division of responsibilities. It is not just a question of working together, but it must be very clear who has responsibility, where the person should be taken and so on. The aim of the initiative was to bring about a clear and lasting change of practice so that a significantly smaller number of people are taken to the brig compared to 2014. Instead, people should be taken care of in other ways so that more can be caught up for continued support and treatment measures. Care analysis notes that it is very difficult to measure whether the target is met, because there are no measurable targets. My wish is to move forward with this effort, because the demand lies not only with the Swedish Government but also with the individual who finds himself in this problem. I also believe that long-term commitments must be made by the principals, over time, in order for there to be a change. Now I do not have figures that are newer than that, but in 2015 88 percent were still taken to prison. That's far too high a figure. It actually poses a risk to the people who are being brought there.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-328	Madam President, I would like As noted, on the basis of the substance abuse investigation that came in 2011, there were actually proposals that went significantly further when it comes to placing a clear responsibility at county councils for both recovery units and treatment interventions. There would also be a clear responsibility for social action on the part of municipalities. It is clear that on the basis of the substance abuse investigation and its referral – it came in 2011 – it was found that there was not enough support to carry out such a far-reaching reform. For example, Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils were very critical, I want to remember. In the 2012 bill Good quality and increased accessibility in substance abuse and addiction care, the Government assessed that the principals, in collaboration with the Police Authority, would decide for themselves how to scale and organise recovery activities and that the question of persons to be cared for under the LOB could be appropriately determined within the framework of local voluntary agreements. That was, again, why, when we took office, we landed in trying to support and follow up so that we would have more such voluntary agreements. As I said in my interpellation response, we can see that 15 counties now have this; for many it is the first time that such cooperation has been established. I share Lotta Finstorp's entry– I think we need to closely monitor developments in this area and possibly also take new initiatives to ensure that the next step is actually taken. That is also why, in my previous reply, I developed a little by saying that, on the basis of local agreements, there have been about fifty different development efforts in various areas to strengthen this job. It is both about strengthening the police's knowledge and competence in the area of care and the development of recruitment units within county councils. It is just as you say, Lotta Finstorp: It varies very much between county councils. But we see that more people are now developing such sobering devices. It has been a long history where it has been seen that some county councils have prioritised this, while others have not. One reason, of course, may be that intoxication itself is not considered to be a disease. However, we know that today there are not often both alcohol and drugs, and it can be very difficult initially to make an assessment of the medical risks. At the same time, we have the situation that it is part of the county councils' responsibility to organise care so that it can reach these people. I would like to say briefly that development work is under way within the Police Authority aimed at ensuring both more conscious, legally secure and humane custody in terms of detention and more efficient use of available resources. This has resulted, among other things, in a manual that applies from 2018, which sets out provisions on arrests and methodological descriptions, which will support the creation of more uniform methods and procedures in detention operations. This handbook contains a specific section dealing with LOB management.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-335	Madam President, I would like This is an urgent matter; it is about 60 000 people per year. It's really important. It is a lot about legal certainty, medical competence and so on. It is good to have a manual, but I still think that the important thing is that the person who is an expert on these kinds of issues, i.e. the staff of the sobering unit, is present. After all, every fifth person comes back. If they are taken to prison, it is not a one-off affair, but a matter of people who need advice, support, help and treatment. You can't give it today; you can't put it on the jailers. It is good that there is a manual, so that they have something to stick to and go after. But it looks very different across the country as to what resources are available in the health care system. It is not appropriate to have the emergency room as the door in. There's got to be a place where other staff can take in. Cooperation and collaboration – what does this mean in concrete terms? What's it look like? There is frustration, particularly with the police, that it is unclear who has the main responsibility for these people and for continued support and treatment. It is great that the agreement is in these 15 counties. It would also be desirable to follow up on what it looks like in concrete terms. There may be many good examples. In the big cities there is a special structure, but counties with a smaller population may be able to learn from each other. I am very curious about how this continues, so I hope there will be a follow-up on it.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-341	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Finstorp, for an important debate! It is a good thing that we in Parliament, on the basis of the various areas in which we are engaged outside Parliament, should be able to raise the issues that are relevant in this way and to give them attention. On the part of the government, I want to be clear about saying that we will continue to follow this. As I said, there has been a great deal of debate on this in history. The last time, seven years ago, there were far more sharp proposals. Now we have chosen a certain path that we must follow. We must see that it provides an exchange, so that the ambitions that I think we share – namely that more people will end up in county units instead of in custody – actually become reality. Of course, we will also follow this so that we see a continued reduction in children and young people under the age of 18. With regard to the development work of the Political Authority in this area in order to provide greater security also in the detention activities – given that it looks as it does – the Police Authority will carry out a major pilot project in the South Region. There, according to Norwegian model, you will install cameras in storage rooms. This is done both to increase the safety of the inmates and to improve the working environment for those who work in these activities. This project will last for one year and will then be evaluated. If this is successful, there will also be an introduction at national level. It is, of course, important to say that the Police Authority thus does not in any way say that a camera surveillance should replace the supervision that has to be done according to law. However, there will be another security, speaking of those who die in prison cells today. I would like to thank Lotta Finstorp for a good and urgent debate, and I look forward to continued dialogue.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-347	Madam President, I would like PerPer-Ingvar Johnsson has asked me whether I intend to take any initiatives in relation to criticism and concerns expressed by NRH, Nack-, Back- and Brain-damaged right to investigations and post-trauma diagnosis. PerPer-Ingvar Johnsson expresses concerns about the possibilities of healthcare abroad for this patient group. The Government assumes that Försäkringskassan and the county councils follow the regulations that exist, which aim to ensure that EU citizens have access to safe, cross-border healthcare. The starting point is that the cross-border healthcare that is being replaced should meet and meet the high standards of scientific evidence, safety and efficacy that the care offered by the public in Sweden does. What care patients have the right to receive funding is thus indirectly regulated by the county councils and municipalities' responsibility to offer good healthcare within their responsibilities under the Health Act. The government also continuously monitors cross-border healthcare, both from an individual's perspective and at an overall level. Among other things, a recent mandate has been given to the Social Security Inspection Office to identify and analyse the handling of benefits in kind in the EU by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency under Regulation 883. The review should include handling in relation to both individual insured and relevant authorities, municipalities and county councils. The assignment must be presented by 1 March 2019. The government is also aware of the problems and difficulties of those suffering from chronic and, in many cases, disabling pain. The Government has therefore commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to analyse the care and care outcomes of people with traffic injuries and long-term pain conditions. In dialogue with patient and professional organisations, during study visits to pain rehabilitation units and on the basis of surveys of care, a number of factors that can contribute to improved care for people with road injuries and long-term pain conditions have been identified. The areas of improvement identified relate to both the organisation and development of care and its application of new knowledge. Care needs to achieve improved coordination between different levels of care and coordination of rehabilitation and sick leave. Taking into account the entire care chain, from the acute phase to the long-term phase – which also includes secondary prevention and the implementation of existing knowledge on risk factors for long-term pain – is a key factor for caregivers to develop.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-353	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Social Affairs Annika Strandhäll, for the answer to my interpellation about the possibilities of receiving care abroad! My interpellation is particularly focused on health care for those affected by neck injuries. Last autumn I wrote a motion to Parliament for a follow-up to the Whiplash Commission's action proposal. Since then, I have been contacted by many representatives of patient organisations for neck-damaged persons. When I meet representatives of patients' associations in the neck, and in several emails and letters to me, they express great dissatisfaction that they do not have the opportunity to receive treatment abroad with compensation from the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. They have also said this to the Minister for Social Affairs. In the online magazine Everything on Wednesday we are a debate article introduced by P ersonskadeföreningen NRH's board and scientific council entitled Patients with problems after neck trauma are forced to flee Sweden. People with neck trauma are over-represented among health refugees. They want to see a knowledge centre and a national quality register. The Minister of Social Affairs has replied to me that the Social Security Inspection has recently been tasked with identifying and analysing the handling of benefits in kind by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency in the EU. It is an assignment to be reported to the Government by 1 March next year. The Government has also commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to analyse the care and care outcomes of people with traffic injuries and long-term pain conditions. As I understand it, there is great mistrust in Sweden between patients with neck injuries and health care and its professional and political representatives. Patients do not consider that they receive the specialist care they need in the country, and many are refused compensation from the Social Insurance Agency for the specialist care they wish to seek or have applied for abroad. I am well aware that all foreign care offered to patients with pain is not methodically and is also not good for patients in terms of quality. But many try to get to the health care providers abroad who promise them help. It would therefore be necessary to create an expert group in Sweden that specifically evaluates the foreign care offered to patients with pain – a group where representatives of patient associations would also need to participate in order to build a better trust. So, as things stand, trust is bad. A great deal needs to be done to regain patients' confidence in both Försäkringskassan and health care. With the mistrust that is now in place in the country in terms of pain care, as I see it, it should not be necessary for the Minister of Social Affairs to be able to agree with the need for a centre of knowledge and a quality register for patients with neck trauma – i.e. the proposals put forward by the NRH Personal injury Association.
i-FcvjEMNFHPW5BHsU49D9Tc	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Per-Per-Ingvar Johnsson, for an urgent interpellation! I have also met the Nackskadeförbund at some point. The question initially raised in the interpellation concerns the concerns expressed by the Personal injury Association. When it comes to legal proceedings, it is, as the interpeller says, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, which, on application from a patient, examines the issue of compensation and gives advance rulings under the Compensation Act. It is also Försäkringskassan that examines the right to compensation under Regulation 883. The test to be carried out by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency shall be based on the most favourable condition for the patient. The basic rule is that the compensation should be equal to what the care would have cost in the county council. However, there have been some judgments which also stated that patients should be reimbursed for actual costs. The price tag set by the county councils has then been considered to be too flat-rate. It has also shifted between different county councils. I think this is a very important interpellation. As pointed out in the interpellation, a number of cases have been appealed. As the legal situation is right now, there are cases that have been approved by the HFD but also cases where the HFD has changed the decision of the Social Insurance Agency regarding the level of remuneration in favour of the patient's application for compensation for actual costs. So we have judgments right now that are going in different directions. Given the concerns expressed on the basis of the December judgment, this is not a perfectly clear legal situation at the moment. I think it is incredibly important that, as a Swedish citizen, you are right and should have the right to seek treatment in another EU country and be able to receive compensation in your home country. The basis is that all EU citizens should have access to good and safe healthcare that meets specific needs. And, of course, we must be sure that everyone receives the best possible care and does not have to pay everything out of their own pocket. We must assume that Försäkringskassan and the county councils follow the regulations that exist and that I related to earlier. It is precisely aimed at giving EU citizens this access. We also participate at European level in the work and continuously follow cross-border healthcare. We do this both from an individual's perspective and at an overall level. The task we have now given to the Social Security Inspection is important in order for us to have a clear map and analysis of whether we can lean towards the Social Insurance Agency's handling of benefits in kind within the EU.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-371	Madam President, I would like It is of course very important that we get better knowledge. It is both about healthcare in Sweden and about the quality of care abroad and the cost of it. The ruling that came to the Supreme Administrative Court last November has raised great concern among representatives of patient organisations. It is perceived that a very large part of the opportunities for foreign health care will disappear. It is therefore important that the Ministry of Social Affairs acts quickly and signals this. But for the signals to be clear, it also requires an overview of the conditions for obtaining care that is useful abroad and that one looks at the costs of it. As I see it, you have to have an expert group to evaluate this. Then it also needs to be followed up on an ongoing basis because there are new healthcare providers offering care, and then it is important to be able to assess whether this care is something for which the Social Insurance Agency will replace patients. Normally this should be possible as a preliminary examination, and then this knowledge needs to be available. Today this knowledge is lacking. Will the Minister of Social Affairs help to speed this up a bit?
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-374	Madam President, I would like As I wanted to clarify in my previous speech, we do not have a clear legal position, but we have rulings from the Supreme Administrative Court pointing in different directions. That is why I believe that the survey and review that the Social Security Inspection is to carry out is important to get in place. It should include handling in relation to both individual insured persons and relevant authorities as well as municipalities and county councils. We also have the National Board of Health and Welfare's report which points to other areas of improvement that concern this group and which I listed in my answer. The proposal put forward here for a group of experts, of course, I will take with me to the Ministry of Social Affairs as a record. Furthermore, there is something that I have not said before and which was not mentioned in the interpellation response, and it is based a little on the question that Per-Per-Ingvar Johnsson put in his first speech. The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority (FIS) has been commissioned by the Government to map and analyse claims in the event of personal injury, which is of course of great concern to the group we are talking about. The general picture is that handling personal injuries works well. In terms of all personal injuries, there is a relatively small number of complaints about the settlement of claims. But, of course, we are aware that the outcome of a personal injury case can have major consequences for the injured party and that, as was said in the first speech, a great deal of injured parties lack confidence in the settlement of claims in insurance companies. Finansinspektionen's monitoring and supervision of the claims settlement process is also important to ensure that the processes, procedures and system support that insurance companies use in the claims settlement work in a way that one can have confidence in and that we, at least as surely as we can, can say is satisfactory.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-381	Madam President, I would like The damage regulation process is important. I have previously asked Mr Per Bolund a written question about this, and I received a reply from Minister Heléne Fritzon. Unfortunately, there was little hope that there could be improvements. Nevertheless, I think it is important to note that many people feel that the doctors employed by insurance companies have a huge influence on the decisions taken in the settlement of claims, which means that confidence in the settlement of claims and the follow-up that is to take place is not good. I thank the Minister for Social Affairs for his promise to take the proposal for a group of experts and consider it, because I think it would be important to restore confidence in the health care system in the assessment of the Social Insurance Agency. A group of experts is then needed, in which patients' associations are also given the opportunity for transparency and participation so that confidence can be restored. Otherwise, this will greatly damage confidence in politics as well. It is therefore very important for the policy to be able to solve these problems.
i-5ce2b4d13f2d6a12-384	Madam President, I would like It is an important issue, and I hope that this debate has been able to clarify a little more about the legal situation and the initiatives taken by the government to try to get a better picture of an issue that, when it comes to matters, means a lot to individuals. Finally, I will come back to what I mentioned in my reply and which the interpeller also mentioned in his final speech, namely the importance of care providers genuinely taking on board the clear areas that the National Board of Health and Welfare points out in its report where improvements must be made for this particular group of patients. It is about the application of new knowledge in the field. Here, the carers need to be better. There is a need for improved coordination between different levels of care. The entire care chain must be taken into account for this patient group, even after the acute phase. Rehabilitation and sick leave need to be coordinated much better than today. Given the mistrust that exists, I think it is good that Finansinspektionen has been commissioned by the government to map and analyse the claims settlement in case of personal injury. Hopefully, then, we can increase the security of those concerned. I thank the interpellant for a good and important debate and wish you a pleasant weekend.
