i-043e84698d2025b7-0	Mr President, I would like to When I presented my first declaration of government, I had inherited a budget deficit of about SEK 60 billion. There had been 13 times more investment in reducing taxes than at school, and Sweden had even received crisis support from the EU for too high youth unemployment. Today, school results have started to turn up. Youth unemployment is the lowest in 16 years. The employment rate is the highest ever measured in an EU country, and the deficit is turned towards a surplus of nearly 50 billion. This has not been created by any single reform, but is the result of hard work by the Swedish people. But to borrow from one of Allan Edwall's songs: Sure it's better, but it's good. Although 13 000 people have been employed in Swedish healthcare, which is ranked as one of the world's top, too many people still have to wait for treatment. Although 28 000 have been employed in schools, inequality in education is still unworthy of Sweden, and companies can pick out state school initiatives in pure profits. Although 300 000 more people have now come to work and establishment is faster, unemployment is far too high, not least among people with disabilities and among foreign born Swedes. Even if we carry out the biggest police effort in 20 years, there are still many who doubt that the police will come when they need it. Although pensions and the housing supplement have been increased, older people have received quadruple dental care allowances and free outpatient care and pension taxes have been dismantled, too many older people are still worried about their finances. Although the UN highlights Sweden's climate and security efforts as an international example, there is no doubt that there is a need for even stronger gathering and driving forces. So it's better, but int is enough. Now the country has a strong economy. Many people in Sweden work so much that the proportion of people in the compensation and insurance systems is the smallest since 1981. Government debt measured as a percentage of bnp is the lowest since mentioned Allan Edwall played Mattias in the Brothers Lionheart in 1977. We can now afford to build a stronger, more equal and solidarity-based society, which has the power to provide security to all of us – a strong society that recruits 10 000 more to the Police Authority and shows that the state is always stronger than the gangs. We can afford to build a society that employs 14 000 more people in health care and is investing heavily in cancer treatment, emergency care and young people's mental illness. It is a society that puts an end to exploitation in the world of work, an exploitation that takes the form of SMS employment, planning working time, fixed-term work and sharing trips, and which makes sure that it actually pays to work. We can now build a strong society that ensures that there is public service, functioning infrastructure and jobs, so that the whole country can not only live but also grow. This is a society that spends at least 20 billion on welfare every year and creates a school that is characterised by equality and studyo. It is a society that gives older people who have worked their entire working life at low wages up to SEK 5,000 more in their wallets each year. Our society should be strong enough to ensure that there is security for those who have built our country. Here in Sweden there is now quite broad support for continuing with a long-term sustainable migration policy. However, I would also like to build a society that is strong enough to attack segregation with full force and ensure that everyone can do their duty and demand their right. I want to build a society that invests in schools, in Swedish education and in solid professional education, that creates safer housing environments and that acts instantly if someone risks living under honorary pressure or is attracted to crime. I am not talking about temporary projects or symbolic changes, but about a strong society that fundamentally transforms residential areas and social structures and ensures that the country stays together. Now we see other clouds towering in the sky, such as Britain's exit from the EU, the new tariffs and the infected trade dispute. This risks creating a concern in the global economy, which in that case hits small economies such as Sweden, which is totally dependent on exports. We will do everything in our power not to do so, but if the accident is there, it will need even more of a strong society that can invest, support, change and steer us through troubled times. Wouldn't it be a little snug if we had cut down on our common security, instead of reducing the tax by SEK 55 billion and most for those who already earn the most, as the Moderates suggest? And wouldn't it be easy if we did what the Swedish Democrats want and cut down on welfare money to municipalities and county councils to give Sweden's richest tenth as much as 13 times more in tax cuts than those with the lowest income? 13 times — what makes the rich deserve so much and our common welfare so little? Mr President, I would like to Here – right here – is the Swedish people's choice, because however flink you are with the calculator, it is not possible to hire the police, nurses and teachers that Sweden needs with tax cuts for high income earners. We have to choose. The election before us will be a referendum on Swedish welfare. I don't choose tax cuts that give the most to a few rich people. Instead, I choose a stronger society and a safer Sweden for all of us.
i-HwWMCJjLdtSvca7yM9adax	Mr President, I would like to The day before yesterday I was in Fittja outside Stockholm and met police and local traders. They testify to two things. They tell us that the vast majority of people who live there are ordinary, honest people: adults who go to work every day, children who succeed well in school and families who believe in the future. It's a long way from the dramatic night-time headlines. But they're tired of the gangs that terrorize and destroy. They think that the state must become tougher against those who committed crimes and give 13-year-old and 14-year-old boys hope for a better life than what criminal gangs can offer and finance. It is therefore both a question of being hard on crime and of preventing it. It's about both more severe punishment and better school- at the same time. The story from Fittja is recognized. It's all about thefts that take place openly and stores that are used as drug stores. You don't call the police and tell them if you don't want a car driven right into the window. These are blackmail and protection activities, threats and violence against anyone who even talks to a police officer. The thing that touched me most was a young guy who wanted to become a cop himself but who finally decided that it simply couldn't; the other guys wouldn't accept it. The police that I was talking to still hadn't given up their future adept. We have to stop gang crime, or the social contract will break real. More severe penalties are needed, so that more people are locked up longer, more police tools and more effective cooperation between different authorities, who see and who know different things, and more police officers who want to remain in the profession. Police density is now the lowest in ten years. Crime reports are being piled up. Serious crimes are prioritised down because even more serious crimes have to take precedence. And the other day there were reports of fewer qualified applicants than the number of places in police training. That is why we are spending nearly 6 billion more on the police during the next term of office. Harder penalties for serious crimes, more resources for the police, higher pay for police officers and paid police training – that is what our concrete proposals look like. These questions will be about, whatever the Prime Minister wants: about law and order, about the risk of criminal and parallel legal systems, about how those who have come to our country will also enter our society, live on wages and not on grants and learn decent Swedish so that their children can learn really well Swedish. And so the choice is about the core of welfare, about school quality and about healthcare availability. The choice will be about this, because there are urgent problems that need to be resolved – problems, not exciting challenges. However, the Moderates' election movement will not only be about difficult problems but also about what are really exciting challenges, issues that determine Sweden's success in the longer term, not only the next term of office but the next 10, 20, 30 years. We must therefore also raise our eyes and discuss the future. Let me give four brief examples. Firstly, how does Sweden fare in an increasingly globalised and digitised economy, where old Swedish companies that conquer the world must compete with new Asian companies that conquer Europe? Secondly, how will Sweden navigate in a completely new international landscape? With whom should we build European alliances after Brexit in order to protect it for us as fundamental internal market and protect a Europe that does the right things? And what is Sweden's China strategy to reconcile open free trade with Swedish demands for fair commercial rules and respect for human rights? Thirdly, how does Sweden manage to finance the welfare of the future when we live longer and no longer work? It is about both transitions in working life and that more people need to be encouraged to work a little longer. But it's also about always paying off working. We Moderates are now lowering taxes for all Swedish pensioners. Pension and salary will then be taxed equally. This is how we strengthen the work line in the pension system as well. Fourthly, how does Sweden act best nationally and internationally so that politics and industry, technology and consumers can go hand in hand with climate change? Here, we Moderates will also run our election movement, not to seek conflict, but because these are questions that the next generation needs good answers to, because the world is not standing still while we in Sweden solve our acute problems. You have to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. Problems here and now need to be resolved. With good reason, Swedish voters demand exactly that. But they must also be resolved if we are to have the time and space to discuss the long-term challenges seriously. So with the Alliance, I want to lead a government that stops the gangs, fights theft gangs and punishes the sexual crimes. I want to lead a government that helps more people from grants to work, which ensures that those who are new in our country quickly get their first job and become part of our community and that those who have been rejected quickly leave the country – a Sweden that works. I want to lead a government that takes Sweden's problems seriously, which does not capitulate to them, but does not just point the finger at the problems. I want to lead a government that is curious about the future that one day becomes the everyday lives of our children and grandchildren. There the Moderates' election movement starts for a new direction for Sweden and for a new Swedish government.
i-043e84698d2025b7-42	Mr President, I would like to So in this last party leader debate in this House, one must surely attempt to sum up the complete failure of a historically weak and historically poor minority government. Unfortunately, Mr President, I only have five minutes, and that is not enough to give a complete picture of this complete failure. I must therefore boil down Stefan Lövven's time as Prime Minister to a word: disaster. Stefan Löfven has ruled Sweden for four years of prosperity. It has been a historic opportunity for Sweden to develop welfare, take a strong stance against serious crime and combat segregation. But what has this government done above all? Money that would have gone to disabled children has gone to asylum immigration. Money that would have gone to hijacking the care queues has gone to asylum immigration. Money that would have gone to the poor elderly in the country has gone to asylum immigration. Money that would have gone to police and law enforcement has gone to asylum immigration. Mr President, I would like to During his four years in power, Stefan Lövven's government has given priority to asylum immigration over what our tax funds may reasonably be considered to be intended for. May the voters put an end to this on 9 September. Now we have less than three months left until election day. Three months we have parties to present what we want with Sweden in the future. I know what I want. We Swedish democrats know what we want, and we have known that for a long time. We want to develop welfare. We want to take a strong stand against crime. We want to fight segregation. We want to recreate a secure, cohesive Sweden. We want to build the modern folk home. Mr President, I would like to In our modern folk home, welfare works. It is available and keeps a high quality and a high degree of accessibility throughout the country. Working in health care, school and care is appreciated, and it is stimulating. The doctor may be a doctor. The teacher can be a teacher. If you are ill, you will receive the necessary care when needed. The sick person receives the necessary care regardless of where in the country he or she happens to live. And no one, Mr President, is left to die while waiting for care. In our modern folk home, crime is combated. Here the victim's interests are put before those of the criminal. Serious criminals are locked up in prison. The police are visible and effective. The police have the necessary resources and powers. Security is central. Citizens feel safe in the home as well as in streets and squares. In our modern folk home, the jobs are growing, the real jobs are growing. Self-employment, education and entrepreneurship are the things that pay off. In our modern folk home there are no parallel societies and no no go zones. Unity, a sense of duty, a sense of homeliness, and pride are the hallmarks of the people who live here. Here we are proud of who we are and of what we have achieved despite our smallness in the big world. Mr President, I would like to In our modern folk home, we have respect for the older generations that have built this society for us. There are no poor pensioners here – poverty among the elderly has been eradicated. In our modern folk home you are welcome to live even if you are born somewhere else in the world, but it is not unconditional or unconditional. Here, Mr President, you do your duty before you claim your right.
i-043e84698d2025b7-54	Mr President, I would like to My lawn doesn't have a green blade of grass anymore. In five weeks, we've barely had a drop of rain. The well has started its own, and we are only at the beginning of June. It's nice to have hot evenings and baths already in May, but I think we are many who walk around with a feeling that something is wrong. It has been by far the warmest month of May ever measured in the history of Sweden. The Swedish Civil Protection Agency calls the situation extreme. Irrigation is prohibited in many places. The risk of forest fires is acute. Farmers are worried – billions are at stake if the harvests fail. Some crops are already dehydrated, and the meat farmers are worried about feed shortages and even start talking about the emergency slaughter of animals. While extreme drought prevails here, the reverse is on the other side of the Atlantic. Two weeks ago the state of Maryland, U.S.A., suffered an unimaginable rain for the second time. In two hours rain came over 20 centimeters [20 cm] of rain, and the local river was raised by 5 meters [5 m]. This is something that the meteorologists have said only happens once in a thousand years. It's just that it's now happened twice in two years in Maryland. Last year, extreme weather events were estimated to have cost the United States over $300 billion. It is almost 2,500 billion Swedish kronor. At the same time, there are those, also in this House, who claim that measures to turn society into fossil freedom in Sweden are too expensive. Whatever the measures – taxes or subsidies – they are expensive and ineffective, they say. But what is too expensive, Mr President, is to do nothing. The absolutely least effective way to eliminate emissions is to first gas up fossil fuels to the last second and then panic. Sadly, it is clear that it is this strategy that the Moderates have chosen, now that they are going to choose to reduce the tax on petrol and the most emission cars, as well as all opposition parties, who are going to choose to abolish the air tax and remove between one in three and one in four heads from the environmental and climate budget. This would put an end to industrial change and investment in green and sustainable cities. It's extremely serious. Just because the weather is crazy doesn't mean politics is. What the opposition intends to do if they win the election is to risk and gas on against the rock wall without fastening their seatbelts, even on the children. I'm willing to take a chance, too. I am prepared to take the chance that the Swedish people want to take responsibility for the climate, that they dislike forest fires and floods and like investments in solar cells, electric cars, electric bicycles and high-speed trains, that they are prepared to make a transition, that they want time for each other and less stress and unnecessary consumption and that they realise that this makes society better, not worse. Mr President, I would like to World leading scientists alerted this week that the number of sperm in Western men has been more than halved since the 1970s. We just read that the Gulf Stream has slowed down. Man has now fundamentally changed his own living conditions on a planetary scale. I do not understand that the debate in this House can be about anything other than that. Mr President, I would like to It is time for all of us to clear the calendar and make sure that we solve our generation's greatest challenge. For us in the Green Party, the environmental issue is what fills our calendar. This has been the case since we were formed 37 years ago, and so it will be after the elections this autumn. We do not solve the climate any other time, when we find a gap in the calendar. This is where we have to make the transition. I say this not because we have read in an opinion poll that the Swedish people think so, but because we are safe in our values. It is not always easy to say the inconvenient, whether it is the air tax or the right of asylum. But we will continue to do so, for we are convinced that this is required both for humans and for the planet.
i-043e84698d2025b7-63	Mr President, I would like to The autumn elections are approaching. Next time we meet for party leader debate, we have a new government and parliament. Then the Swedish people have said theirs. We in the Center Party are going to elections to form a new alliance government. We want to implement changes that strengthen Sweden – future reforms that ensure that Sweden stays together, that create more jobs even for those who are far from the labour market, that strengthen our competitiveness, that make it more profitable to work and that create long-term sustainability and stability in migration policy. These are changes that bring Sweden forward. In several areas, changes are absolutely necessary. The figures speak for themselves. The difference between domestic and foreign born employment is one of the highest across the EU. This is not just a failure for the government, but it is hard on individuals and puts them into exclusion and dependence on benefits and into being part of a new, emerging subclass. The thresholds for entering the labour market must be reduced. Lower entry wages are needed for people to be able to be helped to a first job with a higher income. Mr President, I would like to The Social Democrats have wasted yet another boom. They have not been able to implement the changes needed by the labour market to equip us when the economic cycle is changing or to improve integration. It is clear that the Social Democrats no longer have the answers that solve today's or tomorrow's problems. It is newly arrived and young people with no longer education who have to pay the highest price for the Social Democrats being passive, but we all suffer when society drifts apart. Mr President, I would like to If entrepreneurs throughout the country are to be able to create more jobs for those outside and if it is to pay better to work and train, we need to change the tax system. People, whether they work or have worked, should keep more money in their wallets, and companies' costs of hiring must be reduced. If Sweden is not to be divided, changes are also needed in the housing market. Building rules need to be simplified and renting more freely so that more housing can be built and mobility increased and so that more people with low incomes can get somewhere to live and people can move for work or study. Mr President, I would like to We live in a troubled world — a time when our humanity has been put to the test. People flee war and oppression, and the anxiety in parts of the world remains great. After the elections, therefore, we must agree not only on reforms in the labour market, in the housing market and in the tax system, but also on long-term rules of play in migration policy. We shall ensure order and order, but a long-term and sustainable migration policy must also stand up for the right of asylum and human dignity. Mr President, I would like to We are faced with a crucial choice in Sweden, not only when it comes to how we can equip ourselves forward and shape an effective environmental and climate policy that focuses on results and ensures that emissions decrease, but also when it comes to values and which country we want Sweden to be. Forces that pit people against each other grow stronger. Forces that want to back up the band and take us back towards less freedom, less cooperation, more distrust and more solitaire make their voices heard. It is a value struggle that is taking place here, but it is clear throughout the Western world. People are harassed and attacked because of their religious beliefs. Representatives of extremist organisations show open racism. Women and children are subjected to harassment and abuse and sometimes outright abuse. People of foreign origin are collectively labeled as potential criminals. Sweden is not a protected idyll. Therefore, we who believe in people's equal rights and worth must stand up. We must make it clear that we do not compromise on the fundamental liberal values that we believe in when they are attacked. With more jobs and better integration, I am convinced that we can create trust instead of mistrust and that anxiety and fears can be turned into confidence and optimism. To win the prize struggle I will fight for all the way up to the election day and the days thereafter. Mr President, I would like to On 9 September, the Swedish people decide which country Sweden should be. The Center Party has the proposals to ensure that Sweden is not divided. We have the proposals that move Sweden forward so that we can be a country full of faith in the future.
i-043e84698d2025b7-75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. We are living in a new political era. We live in the political times of uncertainty. Already after the votes had been counted on the last election day it was clear: It would not be so easy to rule Sweden this period. At that time it was one of the opposition parties that was prepared to sit down and make a state budget and make sure that it was possible to govern Sweden. It was the Left Party, and we have done it this whole term of office. We have also had the greatest political influence that we have had as a party. We used our 5.7 percent to work for what we believe in, not just to oppose. We have governed Stockholm and Gothenburg, and we have made the state budget together with the government. If you are going to evaluate the election outcome election day 2014 it was the voters who voted for the Left Party who got the best dividend for their vote. We have implemented 90 reforms – reforms that are so good that many others are happy to take credit for them. It's on us. We have improved the situation for single parents not one, not two, but three times with the maintenance allowance. We've made sure that there's been an investment in healthcare-- not enough, but we're the ones who made sure it happened. We have made sure that it will be an improved dental care with a better dental support, and now we want to proceed with a high cost protection in dentistry. It is we who have negotiated money for women's shelters. We are the ones who have pushed for railway maintenance. We're the ones who got the summer vacation cards, the free glasses and the free medicines for children. We think that's a good thing. But we have also disagreed with the government in a lot. We have been and we disagree when you don't let the person who needs personal assistance get it. We disagree on the cuts in health insurance which let sick people be let down and denied sickness benefit, although they need it. We disagree when Sweden divides families for those who have been granted asylum. If we had more influence, we would have used it. We had used it to close coal mines instead of selling them. We would have used it to raise emissions targets, because the climate requires it. We had stopped Swedish arms exports to countries in war and dictatorships. Today, Sweden is exporting weapons to the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia, which are bombing Yemen. Sweden exports arms to Turkey whose tanks roll into Afrin. We had stopped the NATO adaptation. Sweden is becoming ever closer to NATO. If you're not planning on getting married, don't get engaged because it can easily be misunderstood. Sweden is about to become engaged to NATO. We had taken away the profits in welfare, and we had pursued a distribution policy where the absolutely richest, Sweden's billionaires with growing wealth, had been able to contribute more so that equality had increased in Sweden. For despite all the reforms that we have presented and implemented together with the government, inequality has been adamant, and that is what characterises our society. In what we have done and in what we want to do, one can see the path of the left for the future, towards a more equal Sweden that actually holds together, towards feminism and towards a country that goes ahead in taking responsibility for the climate. This, Mr President, is the complete contrast to the policy of fear and anger which Swedish democrats and parts of the bourgeoisie are calling for. They think that the more scared and the more angry the voters are, the more likely they are to vote for them. The left's message is different. It's a message of hope. Sweden was once one of the world's most equal countries. We can be it again. We were, because there was a labour movement that gradually took us there. That is now our task. With this, we intend to go to elections to have a left-wing government after the elections this autumn.
i-043e84698d2025b7-88	Mr President, I would like to In fact, the world has never been better. Never before have so many children gone to school in the world. More kids go to bed full at night. They are vaccinated against severe diseases. The world's standard of living has, hear and behold, increased as much in the last 30 years as it did in the previous 30 000 years. More people live in democracy than in any previous generation. I promise you, this is not a coincidence. This development is not due to right-wing extremism. It is not due to left-wing populism. It is not due to Islamism. It is not due to the planned economy of the socialists. It is not due to steel tariffs. It is not due to Putin's authoritarian rule. It is not due to Orbán's limited human rights, not to Jimmie Åkesson's nationalism and not to Jonas Sjöstedt's EU opposition. This development is due to the fact that over the last 30 years the world has been dominated by liberal values. This development is due to the fact that more countries have chosen democracy and a market economy, that more countries have joined globalisation and free trade, and that more countries are giving people human rights. This development depends on international cooperation and on EU cooperation. There are major problems, challenges and shortcomings in the construction of the world. That's it. But the world today is better than ever before. This positive development is due to the fact that it is liberal ideas that have dominated the world's development over the last 30 years. But now we see the rise of the dark powers throughout the Western world. They want us to change course and that countries should more look only to themselves and be more egotistical. They are against international cooperation such as climate agreements and free trade agreements. They want to increase the political governance of the media and courts. They want to introduce tariffs and build walls. They want to dissolve the EU, or at least that their own country should leave the EU. They call themselves nationalists, but what unites them is not that they love their country. What unites them is that they detest the liberal values that have dominated the world over the last 30 years. I love Sweden. I love our nation. In my civil career, I have defended our nation. But I am terrified of nationalism as a political movement when I see what it has led to on our continent for the last 100 years. My political commitment has never felt more important than today. It is about what values should hold the world together, hold Europe together and hold up the Sweden in which our children grow up. I can't think of anything more important. Mr President, I would like to Today, the Alliance presents a reform agenda for knowledge and education. There is nothing more important than knowledge and education to counteract extremism and intolerance. Last year, 17 1⁄2 percent of the students completed grade 9 without being approved. That's the highest figure ever. Never before have so many failed Swedish schools. Sweden has challenges. We have heard about them during the debate, and we will talk about them here today – jobs, integration, gender equality and crime. But the big question for the future is school, because there is no better integration policy than a world-class school. There is nothing more crime prevention than a world-class school, and there is no better job policy than a world-class school. There is no better gender equality policy than a world-class school. There is no major reform of freedom and no better way to keep Sweden together in the future than to ensure that all young people succeed in school. That's why we liberals put school first. Mr President, I would like to Despite a burning boom throughout the world, the Swedish government fails on a point-by-point basis. The tax increases would fix everything, the Löfven One. And taxes have been raised, but the care queues are longer, school results are worse and serious crime is greater. There are fewer policemen, and the LSS has been cut. Sweden is further away from the EU's lowest unemployment target today than Sweden was in 2014. But hold on, citizen! There are only three months left until Sweden changes government.
i-043e84698d2025b7-99	Mr President, I would like to Summer is at the door, and for the vast majority it means vacation and leave. That's not what doc k doesn't look like to nursing staff. In Växjö, the midwives' holiday is again limited this year. In Gällivare we talk about the worst summer care ever, and in Region Skåne 400 places are missing this summer. According to the National Board of Health and Welfare, there is a need for more staff in all ten licence professions. Every fourth death is linked to a shortage of staff or care places. The advice for those who have planned to be ill this summer is simple: Wait until autumn! What has this government actually achieved in the area of health care over the last four years? The overcrowding in the hospitals has gone up. The rate of surgery on time has fallen. The waiting times in the emergency room have gone up, and the chance to see a doctor has gone down. Let me point out an example where the situation is totally untenable. In Östergötland it was alerted at the beginning of the year that patients with green cataracts had to wait so long in the queue that they had time to become blind. An ophthalmologist told Corren: As a doctor, it is of course very frustrating to know that the permanent visual impairment that occurred in many patients because of the long waiting lists could have been prevented or mitigated if they had received treatment on time. If they had been treated on time, he said. Care queues have doubled in just three years. Health care needs change. Health care needs a new government. Mr President, I would like to Stefan Löfven has brought the healthcare system back almost a decade. The absence of political leadership from the Social Democrats is striking. Nothing is being done to tackle the problems, and I believe that the governmentLövven biggest failure is in health care. We Christian Democrats are going to elections to take back responsibility. We spend 27 1⁄2 billion more on healthcare by 2020, and we use the money smarter – with structural reforms – to get more care for the money. We dare to do whatever it takes to get an equal health care. The Christian Democrats' response is clear: Abolish the county councils' responsibility for health care! This 19th century model with county councils is not adapted for today's needs and today's advanced healthcare. Which county council you live in should not decide if you receive good care on time. We'll put the patient ahead of the systems. We Christian Democrats cleaned up Göran Persson's care queues, and we stand ready to clean up Stefan Lövven's care queues after the election. Mr President, I would like to The Social Democrats have not had the strength to bring about the necessary reforms. I think it is telling that when Minister of Social Affairs Annika Strandhäll was asked if she could point to a single care queue that had become shorter during this government, she was guilty of the answer. This government has completely lacked direction and goals. This has been tried to compensate for a variety of moves in all kinds of areas. Do you remember the innovation captions? Do you remember the Global Deal, the Minister for the Future or the Industrial Chancellor? It is like that behind every new Social Democratic idea there is an emptybola that like lotteries out what will apply on that particular day. After the previous party leader debate here in Parliament, Stefan Löfven opened to send the military into the suburbs. It's gonna be interesting to see what he's picking out of the game of play today. Perhaps there will be something to throw away the issue of care over the election. How about a medical capult-- what do I know? No, Sweden deserves a better government – a government that sees and recognises the problems that exist and points out a direction to solve them. If you want change, vote for the Christian Democrats. We don't promise everything to everyone, but we keep our promises. This is our welfare promise: You should be able to trust the care. You should be able to trust Sweden.
i-043e84698d2025b7-107	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your attention. There is quite a lot of agreement on some of the description of problems in our country. It concerns law and order and what we need to do for integration. But the opposition's solutions are not always logical. If the Swedish Democrats now want a Sweden that holds together, they would not give the richest 13 times as much tax cuts as they give those with the lowest income. If the Moderates really cared that it should be equal for everyone, then they would not give such large tax cuts to those who actually earn the most while at the same time wanting to legislate on low wages for those professions that already earn the least. It would also not be possible to decide on clear steps towards market rents in the form of – as was decided at its last country meeting – a new and less regulated lease payment throughout the stock. Market rents, just as the Tenant Association has shown in its investigation, would, for example, mean increased rents by 46 percent here in Stockholm County. That's many thousand crowns a month for a family with children or for pensioners, that. I believe in a strong Sweden where we manage well-being, equality and security precisely because we hire the police, nurses and teachers needed to make it possible. Then we cannot throw away the country's economic strength on major tax cuts for the very richest. It's as simple as that. Thus: Welcome up to the pulpit, Ulf Kristersson, and explain why you want to use the country's economic strength to lower taxes most for those who earn the most while others should settle for lower wages, higher rents and a weaker welfare. Welcome!
i-043e84698d2025b7-112	Mr President, I would like to Last October I extended a hand to the Social Democrats in migration policy. I extended it again when Stefan Löfven changed his own migration policy a few weeks ago and left the Green Party. I'll do it again. No one can solve such a difficult issue on their own. If you want to lead the country, you must also be able to gather the country and take responsibility for Sweden in a difficult issue that otherwise continues to paralyze Swedish politics. That is why our two parties should be up to that task. Let me be specific: let us extend the current temporary law and set up a parliamentary inquiry which, in the meantime, will produce a civilised but tight refugee policy that Sweden can handle! Anyone who understands the scope of the question can be involved in influencing the important details, but let us form the basis. My hand remains stretched out, Stefan Löfven. What's your message?
i-043e84698d2025b7-114	Mr President, I would like to We've stretched out our hand. We have made two broad agreements in response to the migration crisis that we experienced in autumn 2015. Overall, this government has made 21 broad agreements. If any government has shown that broad agreements can be reached, that is the one that I am leading, and we intend to continue to do so. However, the issue of migration is of the nature that we in Sweden cannot sit alone and just decide how it should be. We are clear now: we are the ones who have changed migration policy. We rearranged it for which you had laid the foundation. Now we have changed it, and now we are saying that it should apply in the long term. We must now also wait for what the European Union is doing. In fact, Sweden is part of a European Community. In Europe, there is an ongoing discussion and negotiation of seven pieces of legislation that will also affect us. After the temporary law, we will continue to have a long-term sustainable migration policy. It will also correlate and harmonise with EU legislation. That's how this is to be handled. I'd like a broad agreement!
i-043e84698d2025b7-117	Mr President, I would like to Sweden cannot wait for the rest of the world to solve our problems. It is quite clear that Sweden needs a long-term sustainable migration policy, where we can reconcile our responsibility for a broken world with our full responsibility for how it then goes in Sweden as well. Sweden can't do that right now. You have just changed your entire migration policy. There is therefore a historical responsibility for two major parties who have previously seen the value of cross-block agreements that hold over time to do something about the issue. Let us say as it is: it is clear that no traditional political bloc can handle this issue well. You have proved it, and we admit that we disagree in the Alliance. Then you can't let prestige take precedence over the results. Unless we resolve this issue now, one of Sweden's most important issues remains unresolved. The temporary law expires in summer 2019. If we do not solve this before then, serious problems await us.
i-043e84698d2025b7-120	Mr President, I would like to Kristersson is in a hurry to seek battle where there is no battle. I'm saying we should have a broad agreement. Now we have introduced a temporary law that expires in July 2019. After that, we shall have a long-term sustainable migration policy; obviously, we agree on that. But do not ignore the fact that the EU acquis affects and is supposed to affect! One of the points with my whole reasoning is that Sweden cannot have a migration policy that deviates significantly from that of the EU. Then we must reasonably also know what these rules look like. Otherwise Kristersson would now sit down and formulate a new migration policy, then find out that the EU thinks otherwise and then have to formulate a new one again. That's not smart. Let us now wait for this and ensure that we cooperate and continue with it so that we can deliver what the Swedish people want: a long-term sustainable migration policy!
i-043e84698d2025b7-123	Mr President, the Prime Minister. We have major problems in Sweden's welfare. It is a fact that people in Sweden today die waiting for the care they need. It's a fact that we need more cops. We really need to provide resources in all areas in different ways. That's why I'm a little puzzled by government policy. Why, Mr President, are 9 000 Afghan men without a need for protection, who have demonstrably been tried and who have no reason to stay in Sweden, still allowed to stay here and live on Swedish tax and Swedish welfare when the money is not enough to fix the holes in Swedish welfare?
i-043e84698d2025b7-125	Mr President, I would like to The government I lead has changed the migration policy. It will be, and should be, long-term sustainable. We have also shown something called humanism; it is a word that Åkesson gets google. We have to take into account the fact that some have had to wait unusual and inhumanely long for a message. We are therefore taking a temporary and limited measure precisely for these people. It's humanism. Don't come, Åkesson, and talk to me about Swedish welfare – you who are going to let the right, you who lower taxes, you who are going to make sure that welfare companies get as much profits as it ever can and you who give greater tax cuts to the rich than to the low-income earners. Don't talk about welfare! We have made the biggest investment in welfare in manna memory. We intend to continue with it, but it will not be sustainable with your reduced taxes. Well-being takes precedence, Jimmie Åkesson. You have a lot of air when you talk, but now it's time to come up with substance.
i-043e84698d2025b7-129	Mr President, I would like to In fact, you have made the greatest effort on asylum immigration in memory of manna. It is money that could have gone to develop welfare. If you listen to Stefan Löfven it always sounds like the welfare is now amazing after four years with him as Prime Minister. It's not like that. People are still dying in care queues, and care queues are growing. Clearly, the world's highest taxes are not enough to cope with welfare. Why? Because this government has chosen to give priority to people from all other parts of the world. They are granted subsidies and housing in Sweden. That's why we can't handle welfare. So yes, Mr President, I will continue to talk to Stefan Löfven about welfare. I will do so during the three months remaining until the election day, and I will do so during the four years of the next parliamentary term. Stefan Löfven has completely failed in his welfare, for he has given priority to asylum immigration.
i-043e84698d2025b7-132	Mr President, I would like to We make a historic investment in welfare with SEK 35 billion. Of the 300 000 more people now going to work, there are 100,000 in Swedish welfare – 28 000 in education, 5 000 in care for the elderly and 13 000 in health care. Is this enough? No, we need more. But when we're going to have more and more, Jimmie Åkesson, it's not possible to cut taxes by the amount of fantasy that you imagine. You, along with the four parties here, intend to reduce taxes by up to SEK 100 billion. That is what your overall tax proposals are all about. So what's it gonna be? Are there any more nurses then, Åkesson? How are you gonna make it all go together? You can shake your head as much as you want, but now this is actually what it's all about. It is right that we should continue to discuss welfare, because the choice we have in September is exactly that. It is a referendum on Swedish welfare. It is a referendum on whether to reduce taxes most for the rich, as you want, or whether to ensure that a safer society is built together.
i-043e84698d2025b7-136	Mr President, I would like to The forest is the backbone of the Swedish economy. It is crucial for us to cope with the green transition, and it is crucial for jobs and businesses in rural areas. For me, who has grown up with the forest near, it is obvious that the forest should be preserved because of high natural values. But it goes without saying to me that property rights must be protected. Many forest owners have had their forests for generations. More has been done than the law requires. They have seen the forest grow, nurtured it and seen it as an investment. But precisely because of this goal, and because they have taken responsibility and taken good care of their forests, many forest owners now receive letters from the government via its authorities that their forests should be converted into nature reserves. They are faced with the choice to voluntarily sign an agreement to transfer the forest to the state or to allow the state to seize the forest. The option of continuing to care for and maintain the forest does not exist. I would therefore like to ask Stefan Löfven: Does he think this is standing up for the individual's ownership?
i-043e84698d2025b7-140	Mr President, I would like to The forest in Sweden is a fantastic asset. I think we have over 3 billion cubic metres of forest, which is the green gold in Sweden. We can take more advantage of it. We can take more out of the woods. We can make more products, and we can refine more of the forest products. We need to build more wood. That is why we believe that there is room for more wood to be taken out. At the same time, of course, we must ensure that we protect the forests that need protection. It has to do with biodiversity, and it is also an important issue for the future. We need to be able to manage this balance so that we both take out more forest and use the forest – we have room for that – and ensure that forests are disposed of in order to manage and defend biodiversity. In that scenario, of course, society must be prepared to replace those forest owners who cannot farm their forests, and I think that is a good balance. We will both take out and use the green gold but also protect the forest.
i-043e84698d2025b7-142	Mr President, I would like to Right now there is a popular movement among frustrated and irritated forest owners all over the country. It is about people's right to farm and care for their forests – forests that have been cultivated and cared for for for many generations but that the government now wants to take away from them through its authorities. We must have a better dialogue with forest owners and ensure that they want to continue to set aside land but on a voluntary basis. In this way, we can protect both the protected forest as well as the property rights and the forest owners. The government's actions here also have other consequences. Not only do forest owners receive binding letters in the post office, but other forest owners are afraid that the state will also turn to them and seize their forest because it is designated as a protected host. Therefore, they hurry to fell, even though the plan is to let the forest continue to grow. How does it benefit biodiversity, Stefan Löfven?
i-043e84698d2025b7-144	Mr President, I would like to It is, again, about the balance between taking out more and ensuring the protection of forests. We set aside more money to protect forests that are worthy of protection and that will deal with biodiversity. On this I believe and hope that there is really no disagreement. We need to do both. If the Centre Party stands for no forest and does not care about biodiversity, we have different opinions, but I do not think that is the case. What is at issue here is this balance and about ensuring that landowners, forest owners, receive compensation if they cannot farm their forests. That is where we need to focus our attention. When it comes to taking out more forest, we will build more, and it is built more in wood. That's good. We will also need more biochemical products and other products in wood. So let us use it, but let us also make sure that we save the forest that is worthy of protection for biodiversity. That's the balance we're dealing with.
i-043e84698d2025b7-146	Mr President, Prime Minister Löfven. Recently, the government fired the Director-General of the Social Insurance Agency Ann-Marie-Marie Begler. She had done the job that you wanted: she had reduced the sickness rate. It was not her who was responsible for this direction, but you who had decided it. From inside the Swedish Social Insurance Agency comes testimony about higher salary in the event of more rejections. The testimony of the sick is about those who cannot go to work, whose doctors say they cannot go to work, but who still do not get the support they had expected. The proportion of people who receive sickness benefit has quadrupled in three years. It's quadrupled. These are the effects of government policy. It is the effects of the nine-day goal that you have set up for the Social Insurance Agency. Why don't you remove this call for cuts? Why don't you take out the nine-day meal?
i-043e84698d2025b7-148	Mr President, I would like to First, I can correct Jonas Sjöstedt. Begler hasn't been fired. She is still Director General and has received other offers. What is at issue here is that we were not satisfied with the leadership that actually meant that so many more were rejected, that so many fewer people received rehabilitation talks and that they were even encouraged to increase the salary of those who refused. It is not the government that decides such things at its meetings, if Mr Sjöstedt believed it, but it is actually the authority. It shows that something has gone wrong. Then it's not right. We have been clear about getting sick leave down, and I think everyone should agree that the more people come back faster to work the better. But it should be done in a dignified way and with rehabilitation. That is why we are putting more responsibility on employers and asking the parties to agree on how rehabilitation should work so that it is done in a dignified manner and with the financial compensation that one should have. That was not the case.
i-043e84698d2025b7-150	Mr President, I would like to That Ann-Marie-Marie Begler would not have been fired is perhaps a couple of people in the government who believe in but no one else in Sweden, I can promise.
i-043e84698d2025b7-151	She did what you asked. You set a static target on 9.0 sick days. If people are sicker than that but the speech is going down there, as you requested, there are some who pay the price. They're the ones who're sick and can't work and still don't get their sickness allowance. They're paying the price for this. I think that it is not the responsibility to point out a Director-General who has done what you requested and has pushed back the sickness rate even though more people were ill. I'm not saying that's taking responsibility for having a human health insurance. The question remains, therefore, that the policy remains: when will you remove this static target in 9.0 days, which affects so many sick people so hard?
i-043e84698d2025b7-154	Mr President, I would like to We should agree that it's a good thing that sick leave is falling, or the Left Party means that we should have as high a sick absence as possible. I have done a lot of work on this in reality and know that it is possible to get the sickness rates down if you have the right cooperation. That is why Försäkringskassan has the overall responsibility to coordinate that job together with the healthcare service, together with the employers, together with the social partners and together with Arbetsförmedlingen. But when the discussions with Arbetsförmedlingen become fewer and there are so many fewer people who get sick pay and you just cut off, yes, then it does not work properly. It is possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time: It is both about getting sick leave down, for it serves everyone, both the individual and society, on and about it being done in a dignified way. The allowance to which you are entitled when you fall ill should be paid, and you should have the world's best help back in a dignified way. That is what should apply, and that is why we have done what we have done.
i-043e84698d2025b7-156	Mr President, I would like to National crisis. These are the words that Stefan Löfven used about the school results during the time of the alliance government. At that time, 13 per cent were failing in grade 9 – national crisis. After the Alliance's reforms, the PISA results turned slightly up, but it was a modest increase. Now the results are falling again. Now 17 1⁄2 percent fail in grade 9. There has never been a higher figure, and behind the percentage, some 20 000 young people leave school every year without entering high school and with difficult prospects as a result. My question, Stefan Löfven, is: if there is a national crisis when it is 13% that is failing, what is it when it is 171⁄2% that is failing?
i-043e84698d2025b7-158	Mr President, I would like to It is a serious social concern that so many do not complete upper secondary education, and we must really attack that. Then it's more resources for the school. School results have improved. Let's see it anyway-- we can't keep blacking out. PISA, Timss and other measurements show that things are moving in the right direction. But there are too many students who don't go through high school. It's quite obvious. Of course, you have to look at what it is. Most of these students have just arrived in our country. I am not saying that as an explanation, because they should have exactly the same chance, but what do we do for those people? What are you doing? You are removing the possibility of actually studying upper secondary education that gives higher education qualifications and wants to restrict people's freedom. We are bringing more resources to school and will continue to do so. Then tax cuts are not good enough, Björklund.
i-043e84698d2025b7-160	Mr President, I would like to Stefan Löfven is missing something in this line shift, and that is that Stefan Löfven is responsible and has been responsible for it for four years. So it's gone downhill. It was 13 percent that failed 20 14, and now it is 171⁄2 percent. It's not in the right direction, is it? The Prime Minister says that progress is moving in the right direction, but that can't be the case. There are more failings today. I was yesterday at a large upper secondary school in a Swedish middle-sized town, Norrköping, where you work with the new arrivals. I promise you, none of the teachers there believe that higher education qualifications are the goal. They are happy if these students learn Swedish at all. The introduction of higher education qualifications in vocational education and the belief that it will solve the problems of exclusion is completely absurd. More will be knocked out. The answer from Stefan Löfven is that tax increases are needed. But excuse me, you have made tax increases year after year for four years, and the results are only falling. All you're saying is that you should continue in the same way with even more tax increases. The results will then well continue in the same direction, because it is not the taxes that depend on, but the school policy that is wrong. It needs to be much more knowledge-oriented, Stefan Löfven. The agenda for it is on today's DN Debate.
i-043e84698d2025b7-163	Mr President, I would like to I think it's Björklund who's missing something. I'm saying it's wrong that we have too many people out of high school without making it. Of course, something has to be done about that. But if we look at the results in PISA, Timss and other measurements, we can see that it is moving in the right direction. What we need to do instead of huge tax cuts is to ensure that the school gets the resources it needs. That is why we are now expanding teacher training and increasing the quality of teacher training by more teacher-led hours. That's why we raise teachers' salaries, hire more at school and give teachers more mandate to handle their profession. It is the kind of measures that need to be put in place so that more people go through primary school and enter upper secondary school with the right benefits. Then there is a group of newcomers who have particular problems. Let us then attack those problems so that that group will have the same opportunities. Those problems should also be attacked, and that group should have the same opportunities. But don't play games like the whole school's going down, because that's not the way it is.
i-043e84698d2025b7-166	Mr President, I would like to I think it's a good principle to keep what you promise. Prior to the last election, the Prime Minister promised to remove the queues for cancer care. Everyone would be treated on time. Now, four years later, we can conclude that Stefan Löfven has broken that promise. But instead of admitting it, he pretends that nothing has happened – and now recovers the same electoral promise. Enough because recycling is good, but does the Prime Minister think that the Swedish people are falling for this again? The best-before date for your government, Stefan Löfven, has passed a long time ago. I want to ask you a question. Can you mention a single line of care that has become shorter during your time as Prime Minister?
i-043e84698d2025b7-169	Mr President, I would like to Yes, the principle is important, and care queues must be shortened. We have too long courses of care; there is no doubt about that. But this is where the school is: It has been underinvested for many years. The healthcare queues and other challenges that we have in healthcare – because we have a number despite the fact that our healthcare is one of the world's best – have a common solution: more staff. Now there are 13 000 more employees in healthcare. We train more nurses, more specialist nurses and more midwives, and we must continue on that path. Then it is not possible to believe, as KD and the comrades in the former Alliance do, that the solution is once again major tax cuts. After all, you were responsible for this, and now you are going back to that policy. Now we have to keep this direction and make sure to hire more. It doesn't work with tax cuts, no matter how much Andreas Carlson wants. It's not working.
i-043e84698d2025b7-171	Mr President, I would like to The Prime Minister can take away a former position in front of the Alliance – we are ready to take over and clean up the queues that you have created. But what if the Prime Minister answered the question? Thank you, Stefan Löfven, for mentioning the Alliance's tax cuts! I am proud of them; they led to an ordinary worker getting an extra month's wage in his wallet each year, but also to tax revenues increasing by over 100 billion when more people got into work. You, Stefan Löfven, have raised taxes by 60 billion in a boom, and we see that the care queues have doubled. That is what voters can count on you as prime minister: higher taxes and longer queues. We shortened Göran Persson's care queues, and we will ensure that the care queues created by your government are shortened. I asked a very simple question, but I did not get an answer. Can you mention a single care queue that has become shorter during your time as Prime Minister, Stefan Löfven?
i-043e84698d2025b7-174	Mr President, I would like to There are probably several who have become longer, among other things in Västra Götaland. Västra Götaland's queues have grown longer. Others have grown taller. We can stand here and blame each other when it comes to which county council has the longest care queues. It is the county councils that govern this. The responsibility of the state, what we are going to discuss, is to bring resources so that the county councils can handle this. I think it is important that county councils get the right resources, and that is why we have contributed so much to health care. That's why we have 13 000 more employees in health care. When I was in Gällivare they told me this: Now we have three nurses for employees here. This means that the operations are much smoother. More people will be operated on, the queues will be shortened, and we'll have more care places. That's how it has to be done. We have to bring resources, and your tax-benchmark philosophy is not going to work. You cannot both reduce taxes and promise better money to health care. We will ensure that we have the necessary tax revenue so that we can begin to graze the medical queues.
i-043e84698d2025b7-178	Mr President, I would like to Stefan Löfven and I disagree on a great deal, but I think we agree on one thing: at last this term of office is over! It has been four lost years for Swedish politics. Not again! This government has raised taxes by 60 billion and public expenditure by 100 billion. Yet the most basic functions of the state are lacking. Instead of fulfilling promises of accessibility in health care, care queues have doubled. Children's and young people's psychiatrists have tripled. Every sixth student now leaves ninth grade without grades to high school. There are schools in our suburbs where 60% or 70% do not qualify. The government has become a follow-up in the Swedish Law Council with criticism that we have not seen before in Swedish politics. Take Reepalu! Take the High School Act and now the law of 9,000 unaccompanied minors! This is the decline of government power. The government's parties have abdicated each other. We've got an expedition minister three months before an election. Stefan Löfven and seven of his ministers are scored as finals by a united KU. This government has in four years received more remarks from a united KU than all governments combined during the previous quarter century. It is good that this is over. What then happens is only up to the Swedish voters. I'm humble, but I'm ready, too. I promise I'll do everything I can to change the government. Sweden needs a new direction, and a new direction requires a new government.
i-043e84698d2025b7-184	Mr President, I would like to The strong society that I want to build is a society in which we invest together in common welfare. Therefore, to say the least, I am concerned when I listen to the Moderates' various tax bencher play. This election movement has not even begun; yet the Moderates are already up to tax cuts of SEK 55 billion. Most recently in her summer speech Kristersson said that no one should have to pay more than 50 percent of their income in tax. In concrete terms, this means that 20 billion in tax cuts should go to the very richest. An income of $12,000 a month would have a tax cut of $1,000 a month. Why do you think, Ulf Kristersson, that it is more important to lower the tax for those who already have the most than to think about our common welfare?
i-043e84698d2025b7-187	Mr President, I would like to I'd be happy to get back to the taxes. Let me just start with this: Begler has not been fired. No, and taxes have not been increased in Sweden. There are no gang shootings. There are no care queues. Sweden has no integration problems. Orwell himself couldn't have said it better. This is highly unlikely. Mr Begler said in the Social Security Committee that she understood that the government had made practical considerations. Either a highly respected Swedish public official lies or the government lies. You have increased taxes by 60 billion and public expenditure by 100 billion. If tax increases were the answer to the problems we have, then Sweden would not have had any problems. We have put forward concrete tax reductions that give 500 SEK more per month to a bus driver. People with your income and my income, Stefan Löfven, receive SEK 700 more a month. In this respect, we still pay tribute to the principle of half. So did you 30 years ago.
i-043e84698d2025b7-192	Mr President, I would like to Ulf Kristersson chooses to add two thirds of his answer to something completely different. But it's real now. You have to choose. Kristersson usually says that priority should be given, and that is quite right. Moderates consistently give the highest priority to tax cuts for those who already have the most. There will be less money for welfare with large tax cuts. The bourgeois then reason something like this: Yes, it is not possible for a private person to come home and say that he or she has resigned, so it is now less money for the household. At the same time, the person wants to buy a new car, a new house and why not go around the world. That's not how it works for a private family. That's not how the state works either. It is not possible to say that you should do huge tax cuts most for those who already have the most and at the same time invest more in welfare. It doesn't work that way, Kristersson.
i-043e84698d2025b7-195	Mr President, I would like to I'm an old-fashioned politician. I think that one should explain one's own policy, not slander the opponent's policy. This is an important difference. Our budget shows exactly what tax cuts we are proposing. We suggest that a person who has a bus driver's income should receive 500 SEK in lower taxes. If you have high income, we suggest 700 SEK in lower tax. To this we reduce the tax on all Swedish pensioners. We describe a dangerous direction of travel with ever-increasing marginal taxes and say that the principle should remain half. It will take time to get there. Why are you saying things about our policy that we have not proposed? Just read in the columns. I am the first to say that tax cannot be reduced in any way without consequences. You should realise that you cannot increase the tax in any way without this having consequences. Stop slandering our politics and tell us what you want!
i-8a4bzZX1waYw8atteYM32d	Mr President, I would like to Ulf Kristersson wrote on Facebook 25 April this year: And for the same reason that, of course, I and the Moderates would never form or form part of a government that is unable to carry out a sensible economic policy, we will of course not form a government that cannot conduct a responsible migration and integration policy. This is not a threat; on the contrary, it is a promise. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to That sounds great. That's great. That's great. Should I interpret it so that Ulf Kristersson does not intend to include the Center Party in the alliance government that he promises?
i-043e84698d2025b7-203	Mr President, I would like to You shouldn't interpret it so much. That is a promise from me to the Swedish electorate. I stand for the policy on which I go to elections. I tried to explain to the Prime Minister a moment ago that in migration policy issues that no bloc can solve on its own, there is a choice. You leave them unsolved for a few more decades. We have never thought through how we combine openness and responsibility in Swedish migration policy with something that also works here in Sweden. For this reason, I think that it is an extraordinary good reason to seek solutions across block borders in order to create a sustainable and long-term migration policy. I'll go to elections on it, and I'll stand for it even after the election.
i-043e84698d2025b7-206	Mr President, I would like to What Ulf Kristersson says now and what he promised barely a month and a half ago on Facebook is not the same thing. What Ulf Kristersson promised was not to form a government that cannot conduct a responsible immigration and integration policy. Now Ulf Kristersson is standing here and says that one should certainly form that government in order for him to solve the issue together with Stefan Löfven and the Social Democrats. I can't get it together. It's not working. The fact is that people are deeply divided within the so-called Alliance when it comes not least to migration policy. There is no way of getting along. There is no way whatsoever that an alliance government will pursue a responsible migration and integration policy and agree on it. Then my remaining question is: Will Ulf Kristersson take out the Center Party in an alliance government if you do not buy a responsible migration and integration policy?
i-043e84698d2025b7-210	Mr President, I would like to I honestly don't understand what Jimmie Åkesson doesn't understand. I just pointed out what everyone understands and everyone knows. The red-green side has no common migration policy. It became quite clear when the Social Democrats changed migration policy. We have well-known differences of opinion in the Alliance. It became apparent when the Center chose to support the government bill on unaccompanied minors. Then I note what most people understand: we cannot leave the issue unsolved year after year. Then I think that large parties with similar views and – as in the case of the Moderates and the Social Democrats – a historical consensus on these issues have a somewhat special responsibility to seek compromises and form the basis for an agreement that a overwhelming majority of the Swedish people could support. I am not asking for details here, but I am simply saying that this is a responsibility that we must take in Sweden. We must put prestige aside and solve one of Sweden's really big problems. That's exactly what I meant, no more or less. I mean that now, and I will mean that even after the elections.
i-043e84698d2025b7-213	Mr President, I would like to Right now, the PV industry is exploding in Sweden. The installation of solar cells has increased by 50 percent in just one year. Today, four times as many solar cells are set up as in 2014, which is a direct result of government policy. Today's solar cell support is 20 times as large as it was when we took over government power from the Moderates. We agree on a target of 100% renewable energy by 2040. But to get there, you have to have an active policy. Ulf Kristersson asked us to read the Moderates' budget tables, then I see that you remove 9 out of 10 SEK for the solar cell support. You remove the airline tax, and then you remove 1 billion in tax revenue that could be used to support a change. You are also investing in reducing the tax on petrol. Is this really an active policy, Mr Kristersson?
i-043e84698d2025b7-217	Mr President, I would like to There's two things here. The first is that it is not we who point out that you have an ineffective environmental and climate policy. This points out, of course, that external, independent assessors. You want it well, but you're landing in the wrong conclusions. Seven out of eight of your great tools do not have the climate effect you say. Then you do symbolic things, and you can do that for many reasons. But that is not what will save the climate. The second is that Sweden is a fairly elongated country relatively high up on the outskirts of northern Europe. Punishing and taxing distance is a particularly bad idea in Sweden. If you want to bring the Swedish people into a long-term climate change, then you have to be consistent. One can't say one year who are environmentally smart cars so that they can be bought with subsidies. Two years later it is said that the same cars are so environmentally dangerous that we intend to ban them in our cities. Then you lose the support of the people on their way to the green transition. I think you want it well, but you have the wrong methods.
i-DLkTA3hsXjg6iKgj5AfT5A	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ulf Kristersson! It is clear that you have no policy to reduce emissions. You cannot give any examples of how to reduce them. You're lowering the tax on petrol. You want to remove the flight tax. You slaughter the environment and climate budget with every three crowns. You are even cutting the adjustment budget by 30%. I spoke earlier about droughts, floods and weather disasters. Sweden must be equipped against climate change. Here you have no answer as to how we are going to do this. You point to emission reductions, that we should reduce emissions in other countries, and that is also what the Institute of Economic Development points to. But we live in Sweden. It is Sweden that can take the lead role to show the world that the technological transformation is possible. This is not achieved by continuing to subsidise fossil fuels, as you do by lowering taxes on petrol, removing air taxes and not investing in high - speed trains.
i-043e84698d2025b7-222	Mr President, I would like to I do not believe that our international leadership is strengthened by the fact that we are spending 1 billion on the subsidy of electric bicycles in a situation where there are countries that have fundamental and brutal environmental degradation and where international climate investments would do so much more good. You may think differently on the matter, but don't distort what we have said. We recently presented a report outlining three basic principles for a better climate policy. Firstly, international climate investment, where we can take precedence over money that is useful worldwide. Secondly, investment in technological leaps that enable the Swedish base industry, which is an important part of our own emissions, to contribute to less climate impact. Thirdly, the systematic deployment of charging infrastructure so that more consumers who want to contribute can switch to electrified vehicles. These are just three examples of a better environmental policy.
i-043e84698d2025b7-226	Mr President, I would like to In your summer speech you, Ulf Kristersson, said: It is important to see everything that is valuable in our country that has been built up by generations before us and that we do not have the right now to endanger or destroy. I think that's a nice thing to say. But that's not what you did when you were Social Mayor's Council in Stockholm. Then, in practice, you gave away common property that has been built up for a long time. The assistant company Freja Assistanjänster AB is just one example. In practice, you donated this company for SEK 3,000. The owner quickly made millions, 13 million kronor ended up in his own pocket, and the assistance needed paid the price. Is this respecting what others have built together?
i-043e84698d2025b7-230	Mr President, I would like to When we began to question the public monopolies in Sweden, which we called freedom of choice and which those who were slightly less left to the left than you called empowerment, was a fundamental idea to let people make their own decisions also in important welfare areas. I still stand by this basic idea. At the time we thought that spin-offs, to staff and people who drove this, out of municipal administrations were the right method. I admit we learned the hard way that it was harder than that. This is no longer done either. That was an important lesson. I am not ashamed for a moment that I stand for freedom of choice, but, of course, we must ensure that public property and resources do not unduly favour individual traders. But what you really want is not this, Jonas Sjöstedt. You are against freedom of choice and having private options in the important welfare. It's not me.
i-043e84698d2025b7-233	Mr President, I would like to Here I have the plusgiro payment of SEK 3 000. Of this, there were SEK 13 million in profit in its own pocket. You were one of those responsible, Ulf Kristersson. It was not just a bad method; it was an illegal method," said Statskontoret, and you contributed to this when you were in a responsible position. I wish a little clearer self-criticism and a little clearer responsibility for how you take care of public property. If, in the unlikely event of an accident, you have an influence after the elections, it is more privatisation policy that awaits you. There are more sold-out companies that have been built up for a long time by the community. There are continuing sales and privatisations of schools, retirement homes, hospitals and health centres. We know what this leads to, because we have seen what it has led to when you have done it before – and that is the opposite of responsibility for the common.
i-043e84698d2025b7-236	Mr President, I would like to I would take this more seriously if I thought you were really protecting people's freedom of choice, but I don't think so. I think you are looking for these examples to show that private actors should not exist in Swedish welfare. That is why you pushed forward the Reepalus investigation, and that is why you are forcing the government to come forward with a proposal that the government knows is so bad that the situation is only saved by the Alliance's 'no' to the proposal. I don't think it's honorable. I'm the first to say that when you make big changes-- these were made a couple of decades ago-- beginners' mistakes are made that you're supposed to correct. If we let independent actors run schools, we should have control mechanisms that prevent us from even suspecting that a school is doing bad things for private gain. Like a little we will accept that a municipality conducts bad schools to save money. This is a collective lesson that I am happy to take with me. But don't try to make me think that this is about you being so concerned about Swedish freedom of choice, Jonas Sjöstedt.
i-043e84698d2025b7-239	Mr President, I would like to Stefan Löfven recently said that he does not want to talk more about asylum immigration and that difficult thing, but now he wants to talk about welfare instead. I don't mind; I'm happy to talk about welfare. You cannot make that distinction and distinguish a population increase of 1 million over the last ten years from the development of our welfare. One cannot spend 50 billion of the state's money every year on immigration and integration and then imagine that it does not affect our ability to maintain and develop welfare. One cannot give amnesty to 9 000 Afghan men who lack protection in Sweden and at the same time imagine that it does not affect welfare. This affects welfare, Mr President. Although this government has ruled Sweden for four years of prosperity, it has failed miserably. Welfare has not been developed, on the contrary. Care queues continue to grow, and people die waiting for the care they need. Health care has become more inaccessible, especially in the more sparsely populated parts of our country. We have giant holes in the welfare that have to be fixed. Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, Stefan Lövven's government has chosen to spend huge sums of money on asylum immigration and ineffective integration projects. So yes, Mr President, I am happy to talk about welfare with both the Social Democrats and the blue team in this House.
i-043e84698d2025b7-244	Mr President, I would like to Let us then continue to discuss welfare and see what the path is this autumn. That is why we have a referendum on Swedish welfare. Jimmie Åkesson believes that welfare will be saved with huge tax cuts, mostly for those who already have the most. I don't believe it. We need our tax revenue and that they actually go to what they are intended for. I am also going to go to elections to make our working lives more secure. Today, too many workers experience uncertainty. Young people with SMS jobs are waiting with their mobile phone to see if there is a job or not – and everything they have to put up with. Jimmie Åkesson plays along and says that he also wants more people to have full time. But what Åkesson never tells us is that the Swedish Democrats want to change the law on employment protection in such a way that more and more people get precarious employment. In small companies, more will be able to be terminated at any time and in any case without defence. It's not good politics, Åkesson. Why do you choose that line?
i-043e84698d2025b7-249	Mr President, I would like to Let us straighten this out once and for all with the taxes. I am extremely tired of hearing Stefan Lövven's repeated lies in this House about our politics and those of other parties. I have a table showing the distributional impact of the policies we put forward in this House twice a year, and it is a fact that those who earn the least also get the most back. Our policy is that we lower taxes for those who earn least, we lower taxes for the elderly and we lower taxes for small and medium-sized enterprises so that they can hire more. Furthermore, we are removing the airline tax and a number of other harmful taxes imposed by the government. On the other hand, Mr President, we are spending a great deal more on welfare than the government does, and that is because we give priority to welfare when the government prioritises asylum immigration.
i-043e84698d2025b7-252	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish democrats want to reduce taxes by 35 billion and let welfare companies charge as much as possible in profit instead of letting the money go to welfare. They deduct 12 billion from municipalities and county councils. It's not a good policy. That's where we split up, and that's where we're gonna take the fight. But what about the labour market, Jimmie Åkesson? Why should you reduce the employment protection law in such a way that so many employees in small businesses will in practice be without employment protection? Is that how you treat Swedish employees? Well, then you obviously belong in the right camp. The Swedish Democrats are a right-wing party. I'm going to make sure that I fight for the employees' conditions. We must have a safer labour market, not a safer labour market.
i-043e84698d2025b7-255	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that, over these four years, this government has put forward a wide range of proposals which actually make it difficult and in many ways hamper the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Taxes have been imposed, and there has been a desire to change the liability of sick pay for the worse and so on. We do not need any more of this for Sweden's small businesses. What we need is simplification. We need to make it cheaper to hire and run businesses, and we need to make it easier and less risky to run businesses. We need more flexibility in the labour market, not less. I stand for it in combination with a generous and secure security system that captures those who end up between different jobs. I am absolutely convinced, Mr President, that small and medium-sized enterprises that will be able to grow, and dare to grow, must also have an increased opportunity to control their own activities.
i-043e84698d2025b7-258	Mr President, I would like to I note that the Moderate Leader does not take a line on Jimmie Åkesson. It is also the Prime Minister candidate that you intend to support after the elections, we understand. I was going to talk about the climate. Now many people are asking themselves what is happening. When the lawns are yellow and the farmers' crops dry off already in May, something is wrong. IPCC's forecast shows that if we continue – business as usual – Sweden will be 5 – 6 degrees warmer to 2100. Many in this House have children or grandchildren who will live then. We are talking about 5 to 6 degrees warmer. Jimmie Åkesson and the Swedish Democrats want to cut nearly SEK 15 billion on the environmental budget in Sweden over the next three years. You want to remove SMHI's climate research, and you want to remove money for adaptation, landslide securing and other things. Why do the Swedish Democrats not want to take responsibility for the climate?
i-043e84698d2025b7-262	Mr President, I would like to I note that for the second elections in a row, the Green Party promises better weather if you vote for them. It's great fun! You can take responsibility for our planet in different ways. The Green Party is extremely interested in how much money you put into different systems and in different reforms, how much taxes you can spend on people who live outside Stockholm's customs. But it is not taxes that will change the climate globally. They won't affect anything. How much does 1 billion in electric bicycle subsidies affect the global climate? Nothing! Even at the margin, they don't affect anything. It's symbolic politics. You're just interested in how much money you put in. Our climate policy is also aimed at making the most of the money you put into the systems. It is about investments in research and development as well as investments in those parts of the world where climate emissions can be reduced most efficiently and cheaply.
i-043e84698d2025b7-266	Mr President, I would like to I note that Jimmie Åkesson is guilty of the answer. You don't have any initiatives that the government doesn't have, but you want to remove the airline tax-- which, according to opinion polls, is almost a popular tax. People understand that it is not reasonable that the type of traffic that increases most should be completely exempt from energy or environmental taxes. If you take the car between Stockholm and Gothenburg, you pay 200 SEK in energy and environmental taxes on petrol. But before we introduced the airline tax, you paid $10 to fly. We have a tax within Europe and within Sweden of SEK 60 per trip. There's nothing to argue about when we see the huge costs it's going to be if we don't reset. The electric bicycle premium is an incredibly small part of getting more humane cities where car traffic is removed, but you want to invest billions in promoting aviation by removing the airline tax.
i-043e84698d2025b7-270	Mr President, I would like to It's always a matter of perspective. I believe in the idea of the whole of Sweden being able to live. Isabella Lövin has looked at a map and seen how elongated Sweden is. We need to be able to transport ourselves. Sometimes it works to transport by train, but unfortunately not often enough. Sometimes you want to transport yourself by car. Sometimes you can take your bike, depending on where you go and how long you have. And sometimes you need to take the flight. If you live very far north and are going to my home in Sölvesborg you can't cycle. Then you might not be able to take the car, but you have to fly. Why is it more reasonable policy to punish people who have these needs when the impact on the global climate is not even marginal? That policy is completely ineffective. The government is not at all interested in improving the climate, but is interested in showing symbols. It's not good politics.
i-043e84698d2025b7-273	Mr President, I would like to In an interview a few weeks ago, Jimmie Åkesson was asked by seven-year-old Lucy if he has a friend who is a racist. And he said, "No, I don't think so. ..................................................... I'd like to remind Jimmie Åkesson of a couple of things. The Swedish Democrats' group leader in the Riksdag has posted a picture on Facebook where young people were assumed to be potential terrorists only on the basis of his perception of the ethnicity of the young people. The same group leader has said in the News that refugees are, without ID, tens of thousands of potential sex offenders and terrorists. The party secretaries of the Swedish Democrats have compared religion Islam with a Trojan horse in war against the Western world. The representative of the Swedish Democrats in the College of Speakers has expressed doubts that Jews and Sami can be Swedes. To me, this sounds undeniably like the division of people's rights and value based on religion and ethnicity. I would therefore like to ask Jimmie Åkesson: How do you define racism?
i-043e84698d2025b7-276	Mr President, I would like to I define racism the way most people do it, but not the way Annie Lööf does it. Annie Lööf believes that racism is criticizing immigration policy. Racism is criticizing other religions. Racism is criticising people who demand special rights for belonging to a particular ethnic group. It's not racism! Stop calling sound and legitimate criticism of immigration policy and the chaos society you have created for racism. It's not racism. It is a direct mockery of all the people in history and the world over who have been exposed to real racism. It's directly offensive. My conviction is that there are racists in Sweden, but they are disappearing few. Those who Annie Lööf calls racists are concerned worried people who see their welfare go to the pipe and who see Swedish society torn apart. They're not racists.
i-043e84698d2025b7-280	Mr President, I would like to I did not mention that it was a question of criticism. I didn't bring up any ordinary citizens. I raised what the highest representatives of the Swedish Democrats have said about other people who are based on religion or ethnicity. Is it not racism to incite people with other ethnicity, to treat people differently from their origins and religion? The Swedish Democrats say that they have made up with their dark past. But there are still high-ranking representatives who call children with foreign appearances for potential terrorists, refugees for sex offenders and who do not think that Jews and Sami can be Swedes. You are unpleasantly obsessed with the community of the nation, and you want patents for yourselves on what defines the nation. You don't want to let people decide for themselves where they feel connected. Jimmie Åkesson, isn't it racism to incite against people with other ethnicity and to treat people differently based on origin and religion? This is not criticism, it is special treatment, Jimmie Åkesson.
i-043e84698d2025b7-284	Mr President, I would like to If it's discrimination, then it's racism. But it's not like that. The problem, Annie Lööf, is that for several decades now, together with six more parties in this Assembly, the Center Party has pursued a policy that has torn Swedish society apart and created segregation, alienation, gigantic divides, parallel societies, which are still emerging and strengthened, and organised crime, which moves forward its positions and dominates entire districts. This is a huge problem. We have enormous problems linked to irresponsible immigration policy. Nevertheless, there are still people in this House who say that criticism of immigration policy, against other ethnic groups or against individuals is out of my mind. This is not racism; it is legitimate criticism.
i-043e84698d2025b7-287	Mr President, I would like to Jimmie Åkesson, a vote for you is a vote for Ulf Kristersson. One vote for Ulf Kristersson is a vote for the Swedish Democrats. You agree that the profit hunt in welfare will continue. The Swedish Democrats are open to reducing wages through legislation. You agree harder on those who are sick – that the precipice should be reinstated. But this is not enough. You want to go after the sick in more ways. Take the person who has worked in the care so that the back has run out. Or, worse, take the cancer diagnosis. With this comes concern, insecurity and lower incomes. But you also want the sick to have higher taxes, just because you're sick. Why is it so important for you, Jimmie Åkesson, to punish the sick with higher taxes?
i-043e84698d2025b7-289	Mr President, I would like to In fact, it is by no means important for me to punish the sick – quite the contrary. On the other hand, different ways can be found to achieve a society that is good for those who are weak and vulnerable, such as the sick, the disabled, the elderly and the poor. Jonas Sjöstedt's answer to this is to collect as much tax as possible in order to be able to operate as much public activities as possible, so that everyone is happy and satisfied. But it has turned out that this is not working. Sweden today has the world's highest taxes, and yet we have enormous problems in welfare. Then I think like this: Shouldn't you try another way to handle this? Should we not build the country on the principle that it pays to work, educate and be diligent, so that together we can create this cake that can then help those who need it? It is my Sweden and the model for the construction of society that I want to see.
i-043e84698d2025b7-292	Mr President, I would like to It can be seen so well that Jimmie Åkesson is a sharpened representative of the political elite. When you have no answer – talk about something completely different and hope that the audience does not hear. But you, I think they heard. The Left Party wants to lower the tax for those who are sick, because they should not be punished for having the bad luck of getting the broken back or the diagnosis of cancer. The Swedish Democrats do not want to do this. You want the sick to have higher taxes, precisely because they are sick. And you want to increase the difference between the one who is lucky to be healthy and the one who has the bad luck of being sick. Many of those who have worked for a long time, toiled and built up this country and had the bad luck of getting sick should, according to the Swedish Democrats, who stone on the burden also pay higher taxes. You haven't given an answer. Why, Jimmie Åkesson, is it so important for you to punish disease with higher taxes?
i-043e84698d2025b7-295	Mr President, I would like to When I was sick and was away from here for about six months, I paid higher taxes than I do today. One can discuss whether this is reasonable or not. But my starting point is that if it pays to work, go to work and make an effort and educate yourself so that you can get a better job and perhaps even higher salary so that you can contribute even more to the common cake, then it will be better for everyone. This is the principled starting point, which Jonas Sjöstedt does not understand. He belongs to a socialist party, which wants planned economy and wants Swedish society to look completely different from what it does today. I would say that we differ from one thing to another. For me, work and enterprise is a good thing. For Jonas Sjöstedt, work and diligence is something that should be punished. I think it's wrong.
i-043e84698d2025b7-298	Mr President, I would like to There is a risk that debates with Jimmie Åkesson are always just about migration and integration, which in itself are important issues. But I would like to drill a bit into the deeper ideology of the Swedish Democrats. In his book, Jimmie Åkesson writes that his main task is to combat the soulless social liberal society. He says he's a nationalist instead. Social liberal society is not just any. These are the ideas that have built up the most successful countries in the world – in Western Europe, North America and the Anglo-Saxon-inspired countries in Asia, Australia and so on. We also have many examples of nationalism in history. I would like to ask Jimmie Åkesson to mention a single example of an era in European history when nationalism has been more successful in building peace, freedom and prosperity for its citizens than social liberalism has been.
i-043e84698d2025b7-301	Mr President, I would like to The simple answer is the Swedish folk home. It is based very much on nationalism and social conservatism. It is also the most successful period in Sweden's history. It was a period when we were able to carry out gigantic social reforms and the gaps were narrowing, but there was also an understanding of the need for viable businesses and widespread trust in society. The segregation that we see today and the kind of crime and parallel societies that are emerging today did not exist at all. This was based on nationalism, Jan Björklund. I'm sorry you don't understand that, but without nationalism and its view of the nation and the state, the Swedish folk home would never have arisen. It's the best model I know, and I want to recreate it.
i-043e84698d2025b7-303	Mr President, I would like to I asked Jimmie Åkesson about an era in European history where nationalism was superior to social liberalism, and Jimmie Åkesson says the 1930s. It's unbelievable! Folkhemmet was in the 1930s; it was coined by Per Albin in the late 20's. You start talking about social conservatism and how we arrange our social security systems. That is not what I discussed, but nationalism — that we do not cooperate with others. In parallel with this development, when we built up the Swedish welfare state, Sweden was a tremendous driver for international cooperation. Sweden was a member of the League of Nations, at the same time as the nationalistic states of Europe left the League of Nations. I don't have to mention what this ended in, because we all know that. I am not talking about how to build social security systems, Jimmie Åkesson. I am talking about the view on how to build a functioning Europe and a functioning world. We have in Western Europe the most successful model of society the world has ever seen. It's not trouble-free. But going back to nationalism and what it created is the worst Europe could do.
i-043e84698d2025b7-306	Mr President, I would like to I note that Jan Björklund thinks that the folk home era in Sweden's history is the worst era in world history. This may be the case, especially if you belong to the left-wing liberal establishment, which has been pushing and pushing for decades to divide Swedish society, to create the parallel societies we see today and to break up community. This has been done very well. It is this which is Jan Björklund's social liberalism and which has created the society we see today, with gang shootings and gang crime, where trust, community and home feeling are decreasing. I don't want that community. I want to recreate what I call the folk home, where we have a high degree of community and community, and where we work together, across class boundaries, towards the same goal: the common good. It's my community, Jan Björklund. We've done it before, and we're gonna do it again.
i-043e84698d2025b7-309	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats claim to want to become the new Health Party. I would like to ask you a question about that. You also want the care queues to disappear completely by 2021. That is a legitimate ambition. The Christian Democrats also share the view that we need to cut back on the care queues. We also know what it takes. We've done it before. Strong reforms are needed to achieve this. But when I look at the proposals of the Swedish Democrats, I wonder how this is to be done. You're proposing a patient rights guarantee. To this patient rights guarantee you set aside SEK 1 billion. It may sound like a lot, but 1 billion to 83 000 people in the care line-- how far does Jimmie Åkesson think that's enough?
i-043e84698d2025b7-311	Mr President, I would like to Now we are spending a great deal more than that billion to strengthen health care. That's a lot of billions we're betting. We are not just betting on this proposal. We are investing them, for example, in better coordination across the country. We have looked a lot at how Denmark works. We want to take over an idea of, for example, a national health office that can better coordinate the existing capacity in Swedish healthcare, so that you know where there is available capacity. In the short term, we want to strengthen our staff by giving more opportunities to work full-time. Today, there are thousands of people who work in health care and who want to work more but do not. We spend money on that so that we get more hands in the care. I would say that if all those who exist in the public sector and want to work full-time would have the opportunity to do so, it would be 20 000 – 25 000 annual workers. So there will be 40 000 – 50 000 more hands in healthcare with our policy. I think that's good politics.
i-043e84698d2025b7-313	Mr President, I would like to As I said, over 80 000 people are in the care line in Sweden. It is a doubling from when the Christian Democrats had responsibility. But if those in the care line were to share the billion that the Swedish Democrats have in their patient rights guarantee, it would be, generously counted, 12 000 SEK per person. A hip - joint operation costs about SEK 75,000. So the money is not enough. The great effort you make in your budget is not enough. We play in different divisions on health issue n, Jimmie Åkesson. We spend 27 billion more than the government on Swedish healthcare in the next three years. We are also making sure that we have structurally correct reforms to get more care for the money. You're talking about a secretariat for national governance. We want to abolish the county council's hospital responsibility and ensure that we get a care that works throughout the country. We need to invest in health centres and in more care places. Jimmie Åkesson has no suggestions to solve this. You have great visions, but your politics don't match them.
i-043e84698d2025b7-316	Mr President, I would like to Firstly, the care queues that we see today began to grow under the leadership of the KD. That is a well-known fact. Secondly, we play in different divisions. The Christian Democrats have had the chance to control Swedish health care but have not succeeded. Now it is said that the fantastic and only solution is a nationalisation of health care. I'm buying it– not that it's the only solution, but that's the direction we have to go in. But it won't be done tomorrow. It will not even be done in the next parliamentary term. It will take time, and how on earth will the care queues be reduced if we have to wait year after year for you to abolish the county councils and national health care? It goes without saying that it does not work. Mr President, I would like to Politics does not mean that we spend money on the budget and then distribute it to natural persons, so that they can go and seek welfare. I hope Andreas Carlson has understood this after all the years in this House.
i-043e84698d2025b7-319	Mr President, I would like to Now we have heard all parties speak. They have mostly talked about anything other than what concerns people most: climate change and the future of the planet. It is quite clear that climate policy is the major dividing line in the autumn elections. Voters can choose between action or passivity. They can choose between us who see investments in solar cells as an investment and those who see it as an opportunity for savings. They can choose between us who want to invest in high-speed trains and those who say no to it and instead invest in abolishing air tax. They can choose between different parties in an alliance, where the only difference in climate policy is how much to cut. A shovel is a shovel. A cut is a cut. There is no more climate policy with less money. With the Green Party in government, we have made Sweden the world's leading provider of climate aid, while also becoming an international example and a leader through our ambitious national climate policy. We need to do both, and we can do it. The climate is not waiting. There is no debate with the ice in the Arctic or the hurricanes in the Caribbean. We humans must take responsibility. We need to find fully possible solutions here and now. The only thing we need to do is to have faith in the future. Confidence in the future is not something you get after you have succeeded in something. It's something you have before you succeed. If you don't think it's gonna work, the race's already over. That's why the Green Party is going to elections on faith in the future. We're gonna be the brave generation. If we dare, we'll win. Only in this way can we meet our generation's greatest challenge.
i-043e84698d2025b7-323	Mr President, I would like to It is in small and medium-sized enterprises that new jobs are created. It is the employees of small and medium-sized enterprises who contribute in many municipalities to the bulk of tax revenue. The equation is really very simple. More jobs and businesses mean more people paying taxes and giving money to the common welfare, to more nurses, doctors, teachers and police – people who every day make efforts to increase our security but also for a better environment and a better climate. The companies are a key engine in the green transition. This is something that the Green Party seems to have forgotten after almost four years in the Government Office. Despite its stated desire to support and help small businesses, it seems that this policy has been forgotten. The tax on jobs and businesses has increased by 30 billion during this term of office.
i-043e84698d2025b7-326	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Annie Lööf, for the question! I would like to start by reminding you that Sweden's economy is doing very well. We have invested EUR 40 billion in this year's budget, while we are paying EUR 40 billion in public debt. You left behind 60 billion in public debt. You borrowed for unfunded tax cuts. That's hardly taking responsibility. I myself have been a small business owner for 25 years, so I really know what the conditions are for small businesses. We have introduced what we call growth support. We remove or halve employer's and social security contributions for those who employ their first employee and have a partnership, individual firm or limited liability company. This is something that can really benefit small businesses throughout the country. We need tax revenue in order to be able to invest in welfare such as health care, police and defence and make all the necessary efforts. We can do both. That shows this term of office.
i-043e84698d2025b7-329	Mr President, I would like to Employment is high, and Sweden is doing well. But it is more defiance than thanks to government policy. We are lifted by a good world economy – hardly by the Environmental Party's efforts in the government. The list of anti-business proposals can be long made. These are restrictions on companies in the welfare sector, red tape, hassle and eagerness to put a stop to business. They're trespassing on the ownership of forest owners. Companies are used as a cash cow to finance everything else. The enormous cost burden of more than 30 billion in increased taxes on jobs and businesses is placed on the shoulders of small businesses. This is not just about the few things you have done, it is about the whole. Therefore, I would like to ask my question again: Isabella Lövin, is increased costs a way of showing the country's job creators the appreciation they deserve?
i-043e84698d2025b7-333	Mr President, I would like to When you listen to the debate in this House, you hear that there are very great needs in Swedish welfare. We will hardly be able to meet these needs simply by reducing taxes or by borrowing money, as Annie Lööf did during her time in the government, for large unfunded tax cuts. We need to build Sweden strong for the future. I can note that when Forbes or the World Economic Forum look at Sweden, we are top of the line as the most innovative country in the world. We are the best country for start-ups and IT companies. Business is doing extremely well, and the export industry is doing well. This is due, among other things, to the belief in the future that we show with a climate investment that is historic. The business community welcomes the most ambitious climate law in the world, which enables technology leaps and exports and allows Sweden to be at the forefront. This also applies to the forest industry with the fuel change reform, which provides the long-term conditions.
i-043e84698d2025b7-335	Mr President, I would like to I note that the Green Party is hardly ever represented in major debates by the Minister for Education, who is the second spokesperson. Whatever the tactics are, I don't know. But the school can't be hidden away. The results have declined continuously since 2014 in terms of the number of students who fail in Swedish schools. It was 13 percent in 2014, and Fridolin would fix the school in 100 days. Now it is 17 1⁄2 percent that is failing. My criticism of the Green Party does not primarily concern what you have done. The problem is that nothing is done. It should be fully implemented. There is an agenda on DN Debate today that the Alliance has agreed on. You can have a different agenda, but have an agenda! Do something, because it can't just go on like this! You have actually done one thing, and that was the fact that in January the government decided to abolish half of the national tests in upper secondary school. Then I have to ask: how does abolishing national tests at school make Swedish schools better?
i-043e84698d2025b7-340	Mr President, I would like to I want to make it clear that Gustav Fridolin and I have every other debate both on television and in Parliament. It's easy to control. You said, Jan Björklund, Fridolin would fix the school in 100 days. You've had thousands of days to fix the school. We now see that the school results, contrary to what you say, are turning upwards. The Timss and PISA surveys show that there is actually a change. The great criticism of Sweden is about the great inequality in school and about segregation. With your very uncritical homage to profit withdrawals at school, this inequality is strengthened. The government is now investing 6 billion to be allocated to the schools that need this help most. You'll say no to that. The Chair of the Teachers' Union says that it is amazing that the Alliance's proposals are based on grades earlier in school years and order reviews rather than giving resources to teachers and those in the profession who need support today.
i-043e84698d2025b7-345	Mr President, I would like to I note that Isabella Lövin did not answer the question about the national tests. The government has some new language. I have now heard the government's two speakers here say that school results are increasing in Sweden. Excuse me, but it was 13% who failed grade 9 four years ago. Now it's 171⁄2 percent. It's a higher number, but the results are going down because the students are failing. It is a devastating development. There are 20 000 young people who are now not entering high school. Then you stand, Isabella Lövin, and say it's about our tax cuts. It can't be, can it? It is you who govern Sweden. It is true that the results of the PISA study turned upwards. The PISA survey was carried out immediately after the turn of the government in 2014, and it was of course an effect of the Alliance's reforms with grades from grade 6. We know that the leadership of the Teacher Association – the leadership of the two trade unions closest to the government's education policy – is against grades. They were against grades from grade 6 as well. The fact that we did it made it turn up a little bit in the PISA study. But you're not doing anything. I ask the question one more time: why do you abolish national tests and think it will lift the results?
i-043e84698d2025b7-349	Mr President, I would like to You are right, Jan Björklund, that it is absolutely a challenge and a problem that fewer students get approved. It shows that we need more resources for school. In fact, during this term of office we have had many more adults and employees at school. During your time, employees actually disappeared. One of the biggest challenges for us now is to train new teachers and ensure that we have adults in school who help students. As far as the national tests are concerned, we have set up a school commission that has come up with its absolutely professional judgements on how we can actually improve the results in school. What they are mainly pointing out is that we need to give extra state support to the most vulnerable schools where there are problems with school results, not having first-class grades or even more tests. You need more adults and teachers and more early support for the most needy students.
i-043e84698d2025b7-352	Mr President, I would like to That the Green Party wants to tax everything that moves – perhaps not bicycles – is well known. But I wonder how much petrol can cost before the limit is reached for a children's family that has a long way to work, the grocery store and the children's leisure activities. Where's the limit for the Green Party?
i-043e84698d2025b7-353	Mr President, I would like to I thank Andreas Carlson for the question. I do not know if the Christian Democrats understand that we are facing the greatest challenge of our generation. We have to change the whole community. We must move away from dependence on fossil fuels and away from dependence on imports of oil from the Middle East or gas from Russia. We need to invest in renewable energy. We have to change so that the ordinary family can buy an electric car, a charging hybrid or a biogas car next time, so that you do not have to depend on the world economic cycle or wars in the Middle East that also affect petrol and diesel prices. That's why we've made an effort with the Climate Tree. It is a support that you want to remove. We now have 17 000 more charging points for electric cars throughout the country, not just in the big cities. Jämtland and Halland are among the most electric cars. There you buy most electric cars because there are charging poles. Why do you want to remove this support?
i-043e84698d2025b7-355	Mr President, I would like to I didn't get an answer to my question. We have a deal. Of course we'll reduce emissions, Isabella Lövin. That's where I agree with you. However, emissions from car traffic on the roads are falling every year. Electric cars are on their way. These are cars that we Christian Democrats want to favour. But the Green Party does not even seem to want electric cars, despite what Isabella Lövin is saying in the Chamber. In your train vision from 2016 you write: Electrification of roads is not a desirable development. That is how I interpret the environmental party's ideological resistance to car traffic. Even when it is environmentally friendly, it is not desirable. You are taxing Swedish families with children in the countryside who are dependent on the car to perhaps subsidise electric bicycle management consultants here in Stockholm. It is not a serious policy. The Government's efforts are also judged by the Konjunkturinstitutet as ineffective. I am tired of hearing the Green Party's speech about letting Swedish families with children pay for your ineffective environmental policy.
i-043e84698d2025b7-358	Mr President, I would like to This gives me an opportunity to point out that the Christian Democrats are, in fact, the bourgeois party that cuts the environmental and climate budget most, which is something remarkable if one is to take responsibility for the planet and creation. We have invested in charging infrastructure throughout the country. As of 1 July, we will give 60 000 SEK in bonus to the buyer of an electric car. What you refer to when it comes to electrification of roads is about electrification in the roadway for heavy trucks. It is true that we need to invest most of all in rail freight rather than in a very costly way renovating our roads and motorways. These are technicalities, but as I said: A shovel is a shovel, and a cut is a cut. You will not be contributing to Sweden changing to fossil freedom by cutting down every three crowns on the climate budget.
i-043e84698d2025b7-363	Mr President, I would like to Stefan Löfven wants to see the elections this autumn as a referendum on welfare. This is welcome, because it is in this area that Sweden really needs a new leadership. When diseases strike, when the accident occurs, or when you or someone close to you are affected, powerlessness is reminded. Then the anxiety gnaws mercilessly in the stomach. Then there is nothing more important than a close and accessible care. But in Sweden of the Social Democrats, the care queues have grown. More and more people will have to wait longer to see a specialist and to have a vital operation. The difference between county councils has also increased: In alliance-led Halland nine out of ten can meet a specialist within the health guarantee limit of 90 days, but in Social Democratically controlled Norrbotten it is only six out of ten. Uncertainty divides Sweden. It should not matter where you live – if you live in Halmstad or in Haparanda – for your chance to get well and for your opportunity to get help when you need it. Mr President, I would like to When it comes to people's lives and security, we cannot sit still and watch the care queues grow. Then we must increase accessibility in healthcare and reward those county councils that prioritise short queues with a new availability billion. We must also ensure that those who work in health care and who do wonders for the sick and injured every day have more colleagues and better conditions. That is why we want the next term of office to see a national nurse's lift of SEK 4 billion, where those who train and work as a nurse will receive a graduation bonus of 60 000, where the nurse who trains as a specialist will be allowed to do so with salary and where we will introduce 5 000 career positions with 5 000 SEK in increased monthly salary. Mr President, I would like to In Centerpartiet's Sweden you should be able to trust the health care and that it is there when you need it. I would like to see a sort of referendum in the elections, because Sweden needs a new leadership that stops the growing queues, which creates better conditions for health workers and ensures that security is in place throughout the country.
i-043e84698d2025b7-371	Mr President, I would like to The environment and climate are a matter of destiny for our planet, and that is why the government has made historic efforts on this particular issue. The Center Party is also a party that rightly profiles itself on green issues. This party also has a great and genuine commitment. The only problem is that you're in bad company. Now that the Center Party is so strongly committed to the former alliance cooperation, a vote in the Center Party risks becoming anything but green. The Moderates have a very weak environmental policy and want to cut SEK 3.3 billion on environmental and climate policy, while the Swedish Democrats want to cut 3.4 billion. We are talking about one out of three heads of the environmental budget. Kristersson gives information about trying to form a government even if the red-greens become larger, with the help of the Swedish Democrats. One cannot interpret it in any other way; he did not even ask for a reply against the Swedish Democrats here. How are you going to get through the election promises, Annie Lööf, with a moderate-led government that is dependent on the Swedish Democrats?
i-043e84698d2025b7-376	Mr President, I would like to We are clearly seeking support for a stronger center party, to replace Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister and to form an alliance government with a new Prime Minister. This is something that we will drive right into the tile until election day. It will be a complicated situation after the next election. We want to hold the Alliance together, we want to replace Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister and we want to seek the confidence of voters to form a new, commercial government. Looking at the climate of cooperation between the Green Party and the Social Democrats, one can say that the Green Party has not been happy in this society in recent years, not least in view of the environmental and climate policy that they have really had to fight for a rather grey and concrete Social Democratic Party on environmental and climate issues. On behalf of the Alliance, we have a common environmental and climate policy. We've been running it for eight years. It led to reduced emissions, more renewable energy, more wind and solar energy and more environmental cars. We will continue to work for that.
i-043e84698d2025b7-380	Mr President, I would like to It is now the case that substantial cuts in environmental policy are proposed. There was no information here, either on how Annie Lööf will avoid these cuts in environmental policy or on how to avoid voting for a government that is dependent on the Swedish Democrats. Now we are not talking about gaming theoretical issues, but now it is serious. A proper answer is needed, and we should get it during the election campaign. I'm sure the voters want Annie Lööf and the Center to give clear answers. How can you implement your ambitions with such severe cuts in environmental policy? How to avoid giving the Swedish Democrats influence over the Swedish government?
i-043e84698d2025b7-383	Mr President, I would like to In view of the recent opinion figures of the Social Democrats, perhaps Stefan Löfven should also ask himself that question. For the Center Party, it is not about winning the fight for who spends the most money on the environment and climate, it is about what we get for the money we invest. It is a question of reducing emissions. The emissions are stationary now; they are not sinking. It is about the fact that it leads to more renewable energy. Here it is important to spend money on, for example, what the Center Party does. We spend 1 billion on protecting valuable environments. We ensure access to drinking water and the marine environment more than the government does. We invest more in a non-toxic everyday life and chemical control. We want to phase out disposable plastic articles. We want to give people who drive an environmental car 100 000 in bonuses, unlike the government's 60 000. On point after point, we have a very ambitious environmental and climate policy. For example, we spend more than the government on the operation and maintenance of rail. I am proud to lead a party that puts green change in the driver's seat. That is the belief in the future, and that is the hope.
i-043e84698d2025b7-388	Mr President, I would like to Annie Lööf says that the Center's climate policy is for real and that unlike the government, emissions have really been reduced. I would like to take a look at this statement. Annie Lööf : When Sweden and the Swedish people reduced their emissions during your government, you sold 1.5 million tons of allowances that became above thanks to this to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch. You sold them very cheap, for three cents. It was a wreck price for the coal industry to buy up to continue spewing out emissions. You could have chosen to scrap the allowances, as this government has done every year since we took office. Now we have scrapped the equivalent of almost two years of Swedish emissions. Now I want to know: In what way do you think, Annie Lööf, that emissions are actually reduced when leftover Swedish emission allowances have been sold at wreck prices to foreign industry? And will any government with Annie Lööf continue to do so after the next election?
i-043e84698d2025b7-392	Mr President, I would like to No. The reason for this is that, while this decision was taken, the Center Party negotiated at European and international level on the future of emissions trading. There it is very clear: you should not sell in this way, but you can do in other ways to work European and international. I understand that Isabella Lövin is a bit stressed on environmental and climate issues when she needs to question statistics. It is quite clear what emissions look like. Look at SCB's measurements made every year! We follow them; they come at regular intervals. There we see that emissions decreased during the time of the alliance government and that they increase or stand still during the current term of office. However, I do not want to get stuck there. For the sake of the environment and climate, we need to make offensive efforts towards reforms that reduce emissions. That is why we are proposing a green deduction to ensure that environmental investments in the home are rewarded, like a green ROT deduction, and that is why we have environmental car bonuses. That is why we are also making sure that the transport sector, which is the black sheep in terms of environmental and climate emissions, is changed.
i-043e84698d2025b7-397	Mr President, I would like to According to SCB, emissions are now stationary. What is increasing is foreign transport, including aviation. You say no to a flight tax, which is very strange if you really want to do something about emissions. You're also saying here, Annie Lööf, that the emissions did not really decrease, because you sold the allowances elsewhere. It was good to have clarification. You do not want to continue doing so; it is also very good. You may think you've made a mistake. Then I wonder what you will think of other investments or cuts that you now have in the budget in a few years' time. Will you think that the reduction of 1.34 billion to local climate work was wrong, as was the abolition of environmental monitoring, a reduction of 82 million, the reduction of the Swedish Chemicals Agency of 40 million, the reduction of 100 million to green cities, the reduction of 155 million to green land removal or the 180 million to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency? Will you say in a few years' time that this was also a mistake? It's nice that you can admit your mistakes, but I think you should take better responsibility for the future than the Center right now.
i-043e84698d2025b7-402	Mr President, I would like to I think it's good that Isabella Lövin allows herself to be self-critical. There are, of course, a number of decisions during this term of office to which environmental parties should also be self-critical. Migration policy is one, coal mines another. I understand that these parts are being highlighted. I'm very safe in the Center Party's environmental and climate policy. For us, the results are in focus. And we support all the proposals put forward by the government that reduce emissions and increase renewables. However, we do not support proposals which, for example, the Institute of Economic and Monetary Affairs has condemned as empty symbolism policy. We spend more money than the government does on the marine environment and more money on chemicals policy. We have a more aggressive policy of reducing emissions in the road sector, for example with a green car bonus. We have put forward proposals for a green deduction for environmental investments and ROT deductions for charging poles and solar cells at home. On point after point, we have a modern, forward-looking environmental and climate policy that works in people's everyday lives, reducing emissions and changing Sweden.
i-043e84698d2025b7-406	Mr President, I would like to Annie Lööf, you spoke in your introduction about when the accident is coming, and for some people it really is. Last year, 44 people died in accidents at their workplace. This year 16 people so far went to work but did not come home because the accident was there. During the term of office, the Left Party has received several initiatives to counteract this – money for better working environment in healthcare, more labour inspectorates and more research on the working environment. We have also received a new authority to work against this. The Agency for Safety and Health at Work was set up on 1 June, very recently. But it barely got to work until you and the other alliance leaders were out and said that you will shut down the authority as soon as you have the opportunity. Isn't it time to take the accident at work more seriously? We can't be satisfied until the day when no one goes to work and then doesn't come home because you died at your workplace.
i-043e84698d2025b7-410	Mr President, I would like to I fully share Jonas Sjöstedt's ambition and intention in terms of safe workplaces. It is extremely important, not least in health care and not least in industry, the heavy industry, which has an extremely vulnerable situation with regard to the working environment. I think it is important to increase supervision and strengthen penalties for occupational health and safety offences and that employers take a huge responsibility for the safety of workplaces. However, we may differ on one point, because I do not think it is a new authority that will improve the working environment, but rather I believe in more stringent penalties, more supervision and a clearer regulatory framework on this. I believe in follow-up to ensure that accidents at work do not occur. It is also important to ensure that it is secure employment, for example that it is not black contracts, which are sometimes crucial for it to fall between the chairs. It is therefore important to have a healthy and secure labour market.
i-043e84698d2025b7-413	Mr President, I would like to Follow-up, learning from the terrible things that have happened and gaining greater knowledge is what this authority is about. That is the task of this authority in order to reduce the death toll. Then you say that you should close down the authority first thing you do, just as you closed down the amazing Work Life Institute the last time you took power. I think you are doing the opposite of what you say you want to do. As far as safe jobs are concerned, it is you who stand for precarious employment and we who stand for precarious jobs to be transformed into permanent jobs, because we know that when precarious jobs become more, accidents, serious accidents, more. For me it is still incomprehensible that people go to work, say goodbye to their family and then never come back. I guess we should do everything we can. Why, then, should you put down the authority that ensures that you come home to your family at night?
i-043e84698d2025b7-416	Mr President, I would like to Yes, we should do everything we can at political level, but also at employer level, to ensure that there are safe workplaces, that accidents do not occur and that there are no deaths, of course. Every time this happens, it is a loss for those affected, but it is also a loss for the Swedish working environment and the secure labour market. I don't think we disagree there. On the other hand, we define security in a slightly different way. For me, security in the labour market is also about having a flexible labour market so that more people are allowed in. Today, very many groups are excluded from the Swedish labour market. And, Jonas Sjöstedt, it is not the house, the authority, the corridors or the workplace that creates a good working environment and safety, but it is actually the tasks that the authority performs, and they can take care of existing structures.
i-043e84698d2025b7-418	Mr President, I would like to Of course, each election is a serious choice, but there is something special about the choice that awaits us in less than three months' time. For the first time, we can in practice get an alliance from a right-wing party with privatisations and increased class divisions as the core of politics and a racist party that always points out the others as the cause of all problems. We have heard many examples of this here today. I do not want this to happen in Sweden. I do not want it to happen with the country that I basically like and where so much fine has been created, because I know how people will be affected. What happens when income gaps increase and when schools are the worst in areas where good schools are most needed? What happens when you don't get a place to live when your welfare can't be trusted? Society is torn apart. What happens if at the same time you point out some as scapegoats? Yes, we've seen that extreme right taking power. People notice it in their everyday lives. And I already hear people from other countries testify to a harsher climate and more racist attacks. That's why it's so important that we win this election. Because there is another way. There is a road that builds a strong, equal society. There is a road that makes people meet in Sweden. There is a path that means that we are best at having equality between men and women – things that really make people free – and that we have a climate policy that we can be proud of. None of this will happen if we get this alliance of Swedish Democrats and Moderates. But all this is possible with a left-wing victory in the elections. That is why we are going to elections on a policy of equality. That is why we are going to the elections to have a left-wing government in Sweden.
i-043e84698d2025b7-424	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Sjöstedt is happy to talk about gaps. That people with low incomes need a better income and more money left in their wallets, I agree. But the biggest difference in the labour market today is not between those who have a high wage or low salary, but between those who have a job and those who do not have a job. And unfortunately Jonas Sjöstedt lacks proposals for those who are unemployed. Instead of lowering labour market thresholds and making it cheaper to hire, he punishes job creators with high taxes and contributions. Left politics locks people into alienation. When Sjöstedt now turns back to Umeå and Västerbotten during the summer and the election movement, he can say that more than one foreign born person has no job. This compares with 5% for natives. I would therefore like to ask Jonas Sjöstedt why he continues to lay stone by stone on an ever higher wall around the labour market for those who are currently outside in the cold. Why doesn't he want to give all those outside a chance to get into the heat?
i-043e84698d2025b7-428	Mr President, I would like to Now I'm going to sound like a social democrat. I'm sorry about that. Sweden has the highest level of employment that has been measured in the European Union – quite unique! Unemployment is falling and the employment rate is increasing, especially among young people and those born abroad. Rejoice in this! Something good is happening. The key to moving forward on this path is to provide people with education, so that they can actually take the jobs that exist today. Many employers cry out for skilled labor. How do you get trained labor? Let's think about two seconds. Is it through reduced taxes? Is it through reduced social security contributions? Or could it be through education? Could it be through vocational training? Could it be through vocational studies, university of applied sciences, early Swedish studies, perhaps even through start-up jobs? Let's do this. Unlike introducing lower social security contributions, as you did and which led to high unemployment among young people, this works. But we want to do more.
i-043e84698d2025b7-433	Mr President, I would like to I give Jonas Sjöstedt MVG in grades to sound like a real greysosse. Then I'll answer as I do when I answer a Social Democrat. I know that Jonas Sjöstedt means well, and that education is absolutely crucial. It is important, and there is no political conflict in this regard. We also want to invest in vocational training and university of applied sciences and to ensure that people can switch higher into working life. But that is not the whole answer to the huge challenge of integration that Sweden is facing. We have great challenges. Exteriority is large, not least among new arrivals. And I want to give those people the opportunity and the chance to come in, even those who don't have a school background when they come to Sweden. There are those who come here and who have no experience of reading and writing or who have not attended the same school as we have in high school and high school. I want to give them the chance to get to work, instead of putting them nine years on the school bench. This is the difference between Left politics and Alliance politics. We want to give everyone the chance. I ask again: how can we give these people who have no school background a chance to enter the labour market?
i-043e84698d2025b7-438	Mr President, I would like to Now I'm going to sound like a real left-wing party. I'm not apologizing for that. They are given the opportunity to receive both education, training and studies at the same time. That's what's important. Swedish should be given from the beginning and both internships as well as work and studies in the meantime. That's where we split up, Annie Lööf. What the four of you are suggesting is that they pay less. You do not set any training requirements for the low-wage jobs that you want to create for the new arrivals and for the young. You say, "You don't have to learn anything. You don't have to study. All you need is a lower salary. ..................................................... What you do then is you pit people against each other. I think it is a very bad policy to use new arrivals as a tool to push down the wages of others in the long term as well. That is what is happening. When you lower the salary for some, you lower it in the long term for many. I want people to be able to make a living and to get an education, not to become a pawn in right-wing politics.
i-043e84698d2025b7-443	Mr President, I would like to During the time that the red-green parties have ruled, school results have fallen sharply in Sweden. It is now 17 1⁄2 percent who fail in grades 9 to 20 000 young people. There's never been more failings. After the Alliance's reforms, the PISA results rose slightly. One important reason for this was that the grades were brought forward to grade 6. When young people in sixth grade received these new grades, the Swedish National Agency for Education's large survey asked what this could be due to, 80 percent of them replied: We're working harder. " Knowledge is gained by exerting itself, not by any other means. The Left Party voted against this reform, Jonas Sjöstedt. But you are also opposed to the proposals we are now making to move the grades down to grade 4. You can discuss exactly what grade it will be. But my question to Jonas Sjöstedt is: Why is the Left Party so strong ideological opponents of grades in school?
i-043e84698d2025b7-446	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party is an opposition party. It is the government that is responsible for the government's policy. We have a different policy from the government. I think that you should take the research seriously when it talks about what is Swedish school's big problems. And that is the lack of equivalence. It is that schools no longer offer our children an equal education. What school you go to and what school your parents have put you in line for is what determines if you get a good chance compared to other children. This is the main reason for the poor results in the Swedish school. We have a policy to do something about that. It is about the nationalisation of the school and the de-commercialisation of the school with the loss of profit interest and the removal of market systems. If you do something about equivalence, you really solve the problem. Grades in order and conduct in year 3 are symbol politics, Jan Björklund. You're great at symbol politics. But it doesn't work.
i-043e84698d2025b7-450	Mr President, I would like to It's still the height of hypocrisy. Jonas Sjöstedt's entire opening speech was about how much of this government's policy has been implemented because of the Left Party. But then there are some things going in the wrong direction, and then the Left Party is completely without responsibility. It's sitting on all the chairs at the same time. Take responsibility! You're part of this and you could have demanded reforms in the budget negotiation if you wanted to. But you haven't, Jonas Sjöstedt. The results are dropping now that you're in charge of the school. They went up into PISA when we ruled, as a result of our reforms. So it was not left-wing politics, because it is now falling. You're talking about research. The truth is that there is an enormous proven experience with grades. The whole world has grades. All countries that are high in PISA start with grades in grade 1 in principle. Most countries in Europe start with grades in one, three or four – much earlier than in Sweden. Since they started to trixing by removing the grades in Sweden – it started in the 80s and has continued – which led to that we basically do not have any grades in middle school, the results have only fallen. That is a crucial factor. If we lift the number of failed students to pass, the segregation will also decrease. That's the whole idea.
i-043e84698d2025b7-455	Mr President, I would like to Jan Björklund says: Look around the world! You have grades at an earlier age. It's fine, and that's why we're gonna do the same. My answer to Jan Björklund is: Look around the world! No other country allows free withdrawal from school. Only Sweden does. This is closely linked to the fact that resources are too small for school, as they go to private profit rather than to more teachers and smaller classes. It contributes to segregation, and it contributes to the falling results in the Swedish school. If you talk about knowledge – and you often do – is an important knowledge to have as party leader to know that the Left Party is not in government. The Left Party is an opposition party. We have a different school policy from the government. We have a school policy that would mean that we would actually get an equal school in Sweden, where all children who trot off to preschool class would get the same chance. That is where it is lacking today. One of several reasons for that is the prize hunt in school, for which you unleashed and are responsible.
i-043e84698d2025b7-458	Mr President, I would like to One of the crimes that most people in Sweden are worried about is breaking and entering their own home. Many elderly people who have experienced this experience feel so insecure that they feel compelled to leave their homes because the home is no longer their safe place. Summer means high season for burglars. The number of burglaries has increased by 9 per cent in recent years. In 2016, 20 per cent more reported burglary than ten years earlier. These aren't just numbers. It is about the man in Ljusdal who sees that there is a break-in in the summer house or next door. It is about the construction sites in Kalmar where thieves have been caught in the act and caught in the picture when they steal. And the common thing about the stories is that the police didn't have time to come forward. And the police only solve 3% of all burglaries. Although there is a need for strong action against burglary and theft, the Left Party has voted against punitive measures in the event of systematic theft and burglary here in Parliament. Why, Jonas Sjöstedt?
i-043e84698d2025b7-462	Mr President, I would like to I think Andreas Carlson gave us the answer to his own question. The problem today is that few are arrested and few are convicted of burglary. That is why we in the Left Party, together with the government, are making a historic effort to provide the Police Authority with more resources. There will be more police officers working in the field and more working for the Police Department. You can compare it with what happened during the time when the Christian Democrats had influence in the government. Over a few years, the number admitted to police training fell by 90 per cent. It's absolutely amazing! It is the mismanagement, which you stood for, that makes us still have a job to catch up with these things, Andreas Carlson. What matters is that you can prosecute crimes and that you can judge those who commit the crimes. If you think it's good with someone who talks tough in a line change and wants to get credited for it, as Andreas Carlson does, you can vote for the Christian Democrats. If you want someone to get more police so that more is done, you can vote for the Left Party.
i-043e84698d2025b7-466	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Sjöstedt is not bad at speaking tough either, or at avoiding answering the question. We saw a clear example of this here and now. If you talk to the police officers working in external service, you'll hear that they're calling for punishment. These crimes need priority, and this is done by giving the police better powers and tightening the penalties. The Left should understand that changes in Swedish criminal policy are also needed to tackle crime. Half of the burglary is committed by international, travelling organized theft leagues. In Finland, 25 per cent of residential and villa break-ins are solved. What the police indicate that they have done there, unlike in Sweden, is to maintain a better border control. We Christian Democrats want to strengthen customs by half a billion and give a mandate to also control outgoing goods from the country, not just what comes in. If now Jonas Sjöstedt not only wants to talk tough but also highlight proposals that would work: Would you like to support such a proposal, Jonas Sjöstedt?
i-043e84698d2025b7-470	Mr President, I would like to For me it is not a question of wanting to support this, but for me it is a question of doing so. More money is allocated to customs. Exit checks are introduced so that criminal gangs cannot carry out stolen goods, for example. What you're talking about, but you never did, it's happening now. It's the same with the number of cops. It's increasing now, which you never did. You talk in opposition but do nothing when you are in government, and then you stand afterwards and have a catalogue of different things you want to do. We may not talk as much as you do about really getting more cops and more resources to the customs department, but we'll do it when we get the chance. I would rather be involved in representing such a party.
i-043e84698d2025b7-472	Mr President, I would like to Today, the Alliance presents a reform agenda for Swedish schools. If the school fails, Sweden will fail, but if the school succeeds, Sweden will succeed. In the PISA 2015 measurement it turned up slightly. It was after the Alliance's major education reforms, where particularly important reforms were national exams early in school and grades from sixth grade. But that is not enough, because the results are still at a low level. And now the results are falling again. The number of failings has never been as high as it is now. Our reform agenda is about a ten-year school, which most other countries have and where you start at six years of age instead of seven, about previous grades from grade 4 so that those who lag behind are discovered earlier and so that students feel encouraged to work and make more effort and about a changed curriculum that goes away from the constructive knowledge view that now exists and that leads to less focus on basic facts. We want more focus on subject knowledge, factual knowledge and basic knowledge in comprehensive school and extended compulsory education after 16 years for those who need this. It is about order and order and peace of mind at school so that the weakest students get a chance to succeed. It is about teacher reforms where we tighten admission requirements and where we have less flum in teacher training. We made a reform in 2011; it was a step in the right direction, but we need to change it further. The Alliance has a roadmap for the Knowledge School for more students to succeed. I have not heard anything about the alternatives of the red-greens, probably because there is nothing. The red-greens are welcome to take summer holidays, but the school of knowledge cannot wait.
i-043e84698d2025b7-477	Mr President, I would like to There is no doubt that children will learn as much as they can in school. It's knowledge that's number one. It is just that neither research nor profession believes in a great deal of the recipes that are now being put forward here. Björklund is becoming more lonely in his politics – he has with him the bourgeois comrades. A new research report shows that for-profit schools consistently give higher grades than municipal schools compared to the results of the national tests. We are getting a corrupt school system in Sweden. Moreover, much of the profits that schools make could have been used for children's knowledge instead. For me, it is a matter of principle: should the tax money go to the children and their education and to the elderly and their care, or should it go to the venture capital companies? I want to limit the profits, but Jan Björklund fights with beaks and claws so that these companies can withdraw as much as possible from school in profit. Why, Jan Björklund?
i-043e84698d2025b7-480	Mr President, I would like to I'll start with the question to Stefan Löfven, and then I'll answer it. Please tell me why you are against grades in school – tell me in the next post! Nevertheless, that is what my speech was about, which you took a line on. Yes, there is joy rating and grade inflation in Swedish school. The School Inspectorate, who has reviewed this, notes that it exists in both municipal and independent schools. National tests are too generously corrected in some schools, both in municipal schools and in free schools. The school inspectorate sees no difference between free schools and municipal schools, but I think it is equally upsetting whatever it is. Therefore, we propose central correction of national tests and sharper muscles for the School Inspectorate to withdraw permits when there is grade inflation, both in free schools and in municipal schools. Stefan Löfven, on the other hand, is only interested in the question of grade inflation when it turns out that free schools have it. The municipal schools – the municipalised school that the Social Democrats introduced – have had grading inflation since the 90s, and Stefan Lövven's party has never cared. But now suddenly, when it turns out that even free schools have it, you become critical.
i-043e84698d2025b7-483	Mr President, I would like to We're in favour of grades at school. We've settled once that we should have grades from sixth grade. That we would not want grades in school is directly wrong, Björklund, but we will have it from grade 6. From grade four, no one believes in you. You don't have anyone with you. The research report shows that schools run for profit give pleasure. It's not such a strange logic: You want as many students and as much school money as possible, and then it's easy to put a higher grade. Now we hear testimony that the young people who have attended these schools and believe that they have a higher level of knowledge than they do actually have problems in college and universities. We are deceiving young people and also allowing companies to make huge profits that would have gone to children's and young people's education. Why, Björklund, is it so important for you not to limit the profits and that the companies should be able to withdraw as much profit as possible?
i-043e84698d2025b7-486	Mr President, I would like to I'm not in favour of that. I'm in favour of choice. 200 000 children are in line for the English School. It's not a coincidence, but it's because their parents — about 400,000 — think it's good. The reason is often to opt out of municipal school with weak study discipline. It is not that someone chooses schools according to the grades, but there is grading inflation in Swedish schools, both in free schools and in municipal schools. That's the one I'm upset about. Stefan Löfven is upset about this now just because he can access free schools, but municipal schools have it too. The school inspectorate doesn't see the difference. Stefan Löfven! Eighty percent of the students said themselves that when they got grades in sixth grade, they worked and made more effort. It was an important part of the PISA results taking off. Let's move on to four. When you say that I have no one with me, I can only say: The whole world has grades from the fourth grade. Most of them have grades even earlier. It is true that there is an educational establishment in Sweden and that the Swedish National Agency for Education, when Anna Ekström was Director General, was against previous grades, but most people in the world believe that. Those who have it also have higher results than we do.
i-043e84698d2025b7-490	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by congratulating Jan Björklund and the Liberals on having been appointed the Green Voice of the Alliance by the Nature Protection Association. Of course, it was no surprise to us that we were included in environmental policy. We know that you have a much better environmental policy than the Centre in many areas, Jan Björklund, but I think it was news for the voters because you rarely talk about the environment and climate in the debate. The only time in recent years that you have really reacted to the matter was when, together with the other alliance leaders, you threatened to remove a minister if we introduced the airline tax. And the other week you took big words on Twitter when a low-cost company closed a direct line to Las Vegas and accused the government and the airline tax for this. Jan Björklund! As the Green Voice of the Alliance, why should you go to the defense of low-cost charters to Las Vegas and not for the future of our children and grandchildren?
i-043e84698d2025b7-493	Mr President, I would like to I think we should tax CO2 emissions. It is not movements and travel in itself that we should tax. I'm not against people travelling. It's amazing that we can travel. Las Vegas was a route, but it was closed down to Norrland when Nexjet went bankrupt and many other routes as well. That is what happens when airline tax is introduced. Now these closures were not due to the airline tax, but this is what you are looking for when you introduce it, Isabella Lövin: that routes should become unprofitable so that there is less flight. That must be the whole idea. I say, tax the emissions! Some aircraft emit some carbon dioxide while others emit a lot. You don't take that into account. If there are electric airplanes, you'll have the same tax on them. It's not the emissions you're taxing, it's travel. If you tax emissions hard, you get a society with less emissions. If you're hard on everything that moves, you get a society that stands still.
i-043e84698d2025b7-496	Mr President, I would like to Climate gas emissions are now taking place. This is where we have to act. I am very surprised that the Alliance's Green Voice Liberals want to investigate how to introduce a differentiated aviation tax – if that's what Jan Björklund wants – and that you want international agreements. We have been doing this for decades, since the Chicago Convention in the 1950s. Aviation is completely exempt from environmental and energy taxes. We must take leadership to provide neutral competition between the climate-smart modes of transport and the ways that depend on fossil fuels. This is the dividing line in Swedish politics now. It is we who want to do things now and not wait for any other solution any other time, somewhere else. It is here and now that we can come up with the real reforms and efforts that actually steer towards high-speed trains – to which you say no. Why are you doing this?
i-043e84698d2025b7-499	Mr President, I would like to So, as I said, we are in favour of an emission charge on flights, although it should be designed according to emissions and not a tax on how to travel. There are proposals here and now on the table that would really have an effect. Macron presents a proposal for a European CO2 tax at EU level. The European Commission is proposing plastic levies and is proposing a new system for emission allowances that is becoming more stringent. Then the government ministers go down and say no, not because they are in favour of emissions and plastic, but because they are sceptical about the EU. But it is more European cooperation that could have an effect. Isabella Lövin will hear me talk about more European cooperation throughout the electoral movement, both against the nationalists who are against it and because this is an important way of solving the climate problems. Then the red-green Euroscepticism must not dominate, because then we will not take the necessary measures. We have quite little emissions in Sweden. The problem is that many countries in Europe emit a great deal of carbon dioxide, and a European system is much more effective than a national one. We'll say yes to that. All other parties say no.
i-043e84698d2025b7-504	Mr President, I would like to Jan Björklund has become famous for changing opinions very often on matters, back and forth so that you do not really know what he thinks. Sometimes I think you were better before, Jan Björklund. Here is an example. Less than a year ago, on June 20, 2017, Jan Björklund wrote in Aftonbladet that the security situation in Afghanistan has deteriorated significantly during the spring and early summer. As a result, Germany has decided to stop all expulsions. Sweden should make the same decision. It's too dangerous there. ..................................................... It's been a year now. We have seen reports of escalating violence and new bombings, but now it is important for Jan Björklund that young people are sent back to Afghanistan. What has improved with regard to the security situation in Afghanistan over the past year, Jan Björklund?
i-043e84698d2025b7-507	Mr President, I would like to I have answered that Sjöstedt several times. The order that the Swedish Parliament has decided, namely that it is our authorities that evaluate where expulsions can take place, we shall have it. That is why I object to you now running over the expulsion decisions that have been taken by the authorities and by the courts. This is a safety assessment made all the time by the Migration Agency. These are also done in the rest of Europe's countries, and last summer the German authorities temporarily suspended the expulsions due to an attack in Kabul to re-integrate a security clearance. Then I said the same thing. Of course, Jonas Sjöstedt only read some of that article, but it was a temporary stop in order to be able to re-evaluate it. This evaluation was carried out by the Finnish Immigration Service, and it came to the conclusion that the expulsions could continue. That's what I thought, but when the assessment is going on, you shouldn't turn back. But now it's made. Would Jonas Sjöstedt like to change the order so that the government and parliament take over the security assessment of different countries, or should it remain at the Migration Agency?
i-043e84698d2025b7-511	Mr President, I would like to Jan Björklund's answer is both incorrect and illogical. It was exactly the same a year ago – that there was a system of authorities that tried. Jan Björklund was criticized for that at the time, because he expressed a political, humanist view that it was becoming too dangerous and that we should probably do it in a different way. He could do that then. Now he says it's wrong to do what he did then. What strikes me the most is that it's gotten worse. It's more dangerous now. The Red Cross is withdrawing personnel from Afghanistan. Other international organisations do the same because violence is escalating so tremendously. Jan Björklund has changed his mind again. My question hangs in the air, and Jan Björklund has to answer it: What has improved in Afghanistan means that you can now send young people back there, which Jan Björklund did not think you could do a year ago?
i-043e84698d2025b7-514	Mr President, I would like to It's nonsense, this. I said a year ago that it was a temporary break pending a new safety assessment. Since the German authorities did this, I thought that Sweden should do the same. That doesn't mean you should give amnesty. Sometimes it can be concluded that people do not have asylum grounds, and then it is still not possible to carry out expulsions. But what you are doing now is running over decisions that are made under Swedish law, by authorities and by courts, and subsequently giving amnesty to a particular group. I am not looking forward to you explaining to Somali women why they are being rejected and you are going to tell them that if they had been men from Afghanistan, they would have been left behind. What you are doing now is giving arbitrary amnesty to a particular group, and it is not for the Riksdag to do so. It is the Finnish Immigration Service and the courts that will decide this in a legal society. Everyone should be equal before the law.
i-043e84698d2025b7-517	Mr President, I would like to During this party leader debate, Lövven' lack of leadership has become clear. There seems to be no line in government policy. There seems to be only one opinion of the day, a play-off that spins. Now we were told that there should be a focus on welfare again. The Prime Minister described the election in a few months' time as a referendum on Swedish welfare. The two main enemies of the Prime Minister in such an electoral movement are, firstly, the absence of their own political proposals to reverse the crisis in health care and, secondly, the reality. Despite tax increases of 60 billion in a boom, care queues have doubled in just three years. The government stands for a lack of welfare that we Christian Democrats face with our promise of welfare. We cleaned up Göran Persson's care queues, and we are ready to clean up Stefan Lövven's care queues after the election. Sweden deserves better than the red-green government. Sweden deserves an alliance government. I think that today's debate has clearly pointed that out. Sweden needs a government that sees the problems and points out a direction to solve them. That's what the Alliance does. That's what the Christian Democrats are going to elections on so you can trust Sweden. Vote for the Christian Democrats in September for a new government and for change!
i-043e84698d2025b7-529	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for another opportunity to debate this important issue! I have previously debated individual parts of the problem with this proposal with Minister Lena Hallengren, but I now look forward to being able to publish the text on why we vote against the proposal to incorporate the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law. Mr President, I would like to Children's rights should be developed and strengthened. On this there is no political conflict in Sweden. Instead, this debate should be about how we can best strengthen the position of children in Sweden, how we make the greatest difference for children in real life. You risk causing more problems than you solve problems. This is how Olof Beckman, Senior Lecturer in Human Rights at Lund University, describes the Government's proposal. The Legislative Council and 30 consultative bodies reject the Government's proposal to incorporate the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, inter alia, because it believes that there is a risk that the proposal will weaken children's rights rather than strengthen them. The Convention on the Rights of the Child is negotiated by diplomats from different countries and is not written to be used in individual cases. The provisions are generally accepted and in many cases have the character of target provisions rather than the kind of legislation that we in Sweden are used to. This will lead to problems for social services, schools, health care and the police, who will apply the Convention on the Rights of the Child in practice. In the Swedish legal tradition, the legislative power of the Riksdag is protected and the preparation process in which preparatory work clarifies the legislator's intentions. The Government's proposal adds the power of the Riksdag to judge by conflicts between rules and standards at different levels across agencies, individual administrators and officials as well as at our courts. It is a departure from the principle that normally applies, namely that the Government and the Riksdag decide, after careful preparation of legislation, questions about how national legislation should be designed to comply with international conventions. Mr President, I would like to As the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child are so vague, conflicts between its provisions and other rules can be expected to become commonplace. Only after the convention has been incorporated will it be investigated how the convention should be treated in Swedish law enforcement, i.e. contrary to how it is usually done. The Law Council has also had views on this very reverse order. Two examples of possible interpretation conflicts concern Articles 16 and 20 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Article 16 provides that no child may be attacked on his or her honour. 中 Heder中 is a concept that we do not have in Swedish legislation today, and it is an example of a concept that would need to be clarified in order for authorities and courts to understand how it should be interpreted. Article 20 mentions, among other things, the possibility of placing a child according to kafalah, an Islamic concept similar to adoption. It is a form of placement that we in Sweden do not use. Even if kafalah is not included in the parental code or social legislation, it will have legal significance in Swedish law. However, the question of whether and in what cases Swedish courts and authorities should take Kafalah into account has not been analysed by the government at all. That, Mr President, is remarkable. The proposal thus opens the way for children of different backgrounds or religions to be treated differently. Courts and authorities may need to consider kafalah for certain children who have ethnic, religious or cultural domiciles where kafalah is applied. We Moderates are not prepared to allow this. Swedish law must apply equally to everyone, regardless of culture or religion. It may sound nice to incorporate the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law, but the proposal is not only contrary to Swedish legal traditions but also risks weakening children's rights. So what do the Moderates and the Center Party propose instead? We want to take the most important parts of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and include them in the Constitution. We believe that this is a better way of developing and strengthening children's rights. All children are given the best possible conditions to shape their own lives according to their circumstances and hopes. Our proposal builds on the traditional Swedish method of transforming international commitments into national law through national law or constitutional law. We want to continue to analyse shortcomings in how today's legislation meets Sweden's commitments under the Convention on the Rights of the Child and make the necessary changes. As an alternative to the Government's proposal to make the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law, we propose that Articles 2, 3, 6 and 12 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child be used as a starting point to create a new constitutional provision in the government form on the protection of children's rights. There are fundamental points of departure on the child's right to life, on non-discrimination and on the emphasis on the child's best interests, which permeates the rest of the Convention and is therefore essentially of such a nature as to fit in with the other provisions of the government form. Why the government has not also chosen this solution is unclear, and unfortunately I did not get any explanation for this from Lena Hallengren during the interpellation debate I had with her on 1 June in this House. Mr President, I would like to The government's proposal to incorporate the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child has received very strong criticism. The Law Council and many heavy consultation bodies reject the Government's proposal. The Constitutional Committee and the Riksdag have often stated that the texts of the Convention are designed in such a way that they cannot be incorporated. Nothing has changed in substance on this issue, and we are sticking to that position in the debate here today. Therefore, the Moderates are voting against today's proposal. Instead, we want to go further and really strengthen children's rights, not only in the legislation concerning children's rights, but also in our constitution.
i-043e84698d2025b7-541	Mr President, I would like to We are debating today, as I have said, the report by the Committee on Social Affairs, SfU25, incorporating the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. In order not to forget that, I would like to begin by calling for our reservations 1 and 3. One thing I am convinced of here today is that we all agree that children's rights are fundamental in a functioning society and are to be protected, protected and strengthened in different ways. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child has long been guiding both in Sweden and internationally. It is good and positive that Sweden has ratified the Convention and that the Convention is largely transformed into Swedish legislation. That the government has an ambition to strengthen children's rights and children's perspectives in Sweden is of course something that is positive, as the central starting point for the Swedish Democrats is that the best interests of children should always be given priority. Among other things, we want to introduce a childhood guarantee in which society sets out a zero vision against discrimination, bullying and harassment. The guarantee shall protect children from physical and psychological violence, sexual abuse and neglect or abuse and, as far as possible, ensure a safe upbringing with both parents. To achieve this, it is largely a matter of taking political responsibility for children in the legislation we have today. However, what the government is now proposing is that Articles 1 to 42 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, as amended by the original text, should be incorporated into Swedish law. I am very doubtful that this is the best way to strengthen children's rights. It is unclear how the text of the Convention should be interpreted if there is a conflict of standards between already existing Swedish law and the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and as has been said earlier in the debate, responsibility for resolving any such conflict is placed on the courts and administrative authorities. Several consultation bodies, including the Law Council, point out that incorporation as the Government's proposal is designed creates great uncertainty. The Convention contains vague wordings and lacks preparatory work, which makes it difficult to interpret. Another problem is that the courts will have to make decisions that according to Swedish legal traditions end up on the legislator. According to the Law Council, it is worrying precisely that responsibility for resolving any conflict of standards is placed on the courts, and the JO points out that responsibility for the development of law here is transferred from the legislator to the practitioners, who, in this context, have an unusually complicated and unclear legal basis to deal with. Mr President, I would like to According to the Swedish Law Council's opinion, it is also a reverse order to first incorporate the Convention and then have an investigation map how the Convention is dealt with in Swedish law and law enforcement and analyse the meaning of the Convention's provisions based on Swedish circumstances. Such an investigation should, of course, be carried out first and serve as a basis for assessing whether the Convention should be incorporated and how best to do so. One example that has caused concern and many questions precisely when it comes to the unclear interpretation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child is the famous Article 20. The article concerns the protection of children deprived of their family environment and the support they receive. This care may include placement in foster homes, kafalah in Islamic law, adoption or, if necessary, placement in appropriate institutions for care of children. ..................................................... It is important to point out that this is primarily designed to enable the Convention on the Rights of the Child to be applied in Muslim countries and that there is no obligation to place under the Convention according to kafalah in Sweden. Placement shall instead take place in accordance with national law. At the same time, however, I think it is a good thing that the issue has come up, so that there is no doubt whatsoever that Swedish law should be applied in Sweden. As the whole committee supports the Christian Democrats' motion, the Swedish Parliament today supports the wording in the motion that Islamic law is not applied in Sweden and that it should also apply after the incorporation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law. I hope we all remember that. However, this should have been made much clearer in the bill, and such ambiguities should not arise in how an international convention that now becomes Swedish law should be interpreted and applied in relation to current legislation. Mr President, I would like to Another issue raised in the referral from the Stockholm Administrative Court of Appeal is that the authorities and courts should already make difficult trade-offs between different interests to be taken into account in migration cases. The Administrative Court of Appeal therefore believes that if the Convention on the Rights of the Child is to be incorporated into Swedish law, further guidance is needed on how this affects migration cases. The Swedish Democrats therefore believe that incorporation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in the way proposed by the Government creates uncertainty and unpredictability and, in the long run, risks weakening rather than strengthening children's interests. All legislation, in particular those aimed at protecting the rights of vulnerable groups, must be preceded by comprehensive impact assessments and, as far as possible, decide in advance on the application of the law. This has not happened in this case, and that is why the Swedish Democrats choose to reject the government's proposal. Mr President, I would like to At the same time, we want the work to strengthen children's rights to be taken seriously and continued in Sweden. We therefore propose that the Government return with a proposal on how the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child can be incorporated into Swedish law in a more responsible, long-term and predictable way. The Swedish Democrats have insisted that the text of the Convention should adopt more the form of an objective clause, which will then become applicable through the further transformation work. This means that the issue of hierarchy of standards and conflicts of standards should be resolved in a much clearer way by the legislator and should provide clear guidelines on how the Convention texts should be applied by courts and authorities. The Swedish Democrats also believe that the Convention will have a much stronger impact when it is transformed into Swedish legal text in the way that has been done in the past and as the Swedish legal tradition has previously complied with the Convention. Mr President, I would like to The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child is an important issue that is engaged. Questions relating to children's rights extend across all policy areas, and we believe that this is a matter of such importance that we have proposed to the government to set up a parliamentary committee to investigate how the further work on transposing the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law should be implemented in the best possible way. I wish that this had been done more clearly in view of this proposal. We believe that it would have been a better way to achieve the objective of strengthening children's rights in a clearer way than is done with this proposal and a better way of finding a broad majority and consensus in Parliament. I think that would have been possible. It now looks like the government's proposal will have a majority – unless some Members suddenly change their mind and choose to vote for our reservation, which I do not think is so likely. Then I assume that there will be proper follow-up and investigation of the further work and that the ambiguities that may arise with regard to the interpretation of the Convention will be properly followed up. This is what is being expressed in the Christian Democrats and Liberals' motions, which the whole committee supports. Mr President, I would like to I also assume and hope that perhaps the government parties' somewhat loud words here today about children's rights – which is a good thing – are not just empty words. I hope that children's marriages are really banned in Sweden rather than being given information leaflets about them. I hope that the veiling of preschools will never come true. I hope that the interests of children, and not politically imposed quotas, will be at the forefront of parental insurance. I hope that the penalties will be tightened for sexual offences against children. And I hope that the situation and the children's perspective will have a much more central place in the foreign and aid policy of the government.
i-043e84698d2025b7-560	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is in many ways a fantastic country to live in, not least for children and young people. Throughout the 20th century, Sweden has been at the forefront. We have a well-developed social safety net for children and young people, a school for all and a ban on child abuse. The list can be made long. Most children are fine, but not all. The gaps are getting bigger in many places. The gaps are increasing between children who grow up in families where parents have jobs and those who grow up in families where one or both parents live on benefits. The gaps are increasing between those growing up in sparsely populated areas and those growing up in the country's growth areas. The gaps are increasing between young people who suffer from mental illness and those who are well. The gaps are increasing between the children in need of personal assistance and those who are not in need of it. It wouldn't have to be like this. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which Sweden has been a strong driving force in the 1980s, has been an important tool for improving children's conditions in the world, in Sweden, in its own region and in the municipality. The Convention on the Rights of the Child has been a living document in political decision-making in both the municipal council and the regional council. It has affected Swedish legislation for almost three decades. In the legislative process, the Convention on the Rights of the Child has had a strong impact. During the time of the alliance government, a major analysis was made of how Swedish legislation is in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. The results of the review showed that the Convention on the Rights of the Child had had a very large impact, although there were a number of gaps. This has also been the conclusion of the periodic reviews carried out by the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child. For many years there has been a discussion about whether the text and letter of the Convention should also become Swedish law. This can be done in two ways: either by incorporating it, like the European Convention, into the form of government and becoming part of the Constitution or by making it into ordinary law. As early as 2011, the Center Party took a position that the Convention on the Rights of the Child should become part of the Swedish Constitution by including its portal clauses like the European Convention in the form of government. There are two reasons why we landed in this end. Sweden's constitutions govern not only how courts decide but also how the government should act and for the legislative process. Mr President, during the last parliamentary term we have had a government which has acted directly against children on a number of issues. If the portal clause of the Convention on the Rights of the Child had been part of the Swedish form of government, the government would have had a stronger pressure to act not only in formal speeches but also in practical political handling on the basis of the best interests of children. A number of children have since 2015 lost their personal assistance partly because of the government's active decisions and partly because of inaction. It would have been considerably more difficult, Mr President, to get this through if the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child had been constitutional. Nearly 200 000 children have suffered from mental illness. During the previous term of office, the queues for child and youth psychiatry have tripled. The government could not have been as passive if the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child had been a constitutional body. During its term of office, the government has pushed through temporary changes in migration policy that have seriously impaired children's right to be reunited with their parents – contrary to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. It would not have been as easy for the Green Party and the Social Democrats in government to push this policy through if the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child had been constitutional. The Center Party pushed for the investigation to be tasked with at least investigating the two alternatives to transposing the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law. One should have looked at the advantages and disadvantages of either making the Convention on the Rights of the Child part of the Constitution, in the form of a government, or incorporating it as an ordinary law. But the government quickly closed that door. They wanted to have the opportunity to give formal speeches in honour of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, but not to allow it to govern the actions of the government. The second reason, Mr President, that the Center Party wanted the Convention on the Rights of the Child to become part of the Constitution and not become one of all other laws was the objections that have come from a large part of the consultative bodies that have legal competence – from the Law Council to legal institutions at our universities and colleges. Applying an international convention, made in the 1980s with diplomatic compromises that enabled all nations to sign it, will, it writes, lead to very big problems. Most of the Convention's articles are generally held and designed so that they are not suitable for direct application in individual cases. The Legislative Council goes on to point out the problem that the provisions of the Convention mean that, in addition to courts and other judicial bodies, the application of the law will also be imposed on all government and municipal officials dealing with matters concerning children. Mr President, I would like to We could have taken a decision that turned the Convention on the Rights of the Child into law and that passed it over other laws by incorporating it into the Swedish form of government. It would also have removed a large number of the major obstacles that Sweden's overall legal competence has listed. I therefore call for reservations 1 and 2 to reject the Government's proposal and for us to take a fresh look at this issue and see whether we cannot include the Convention on the Rights of the Child in the form of the Swedish Government instead.
i-043e84698d2025b7-574	Mr President, I would like to I have to say that it is very nice that the probably last debate I have the honour to hold during this parliamentary term is about us incorporating the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law. This is a very big day for everyone who is a child today and for all the children of the future in Sweden, because this is a decision that commits us to fully guaranteeing children's human rights. As early as 1989, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child was adopted, but although we supported the Convention, it did not apply as a Swedish law. Since the Convention did not have the same status as other Swedish law, it allowed authorities and also the policy not to take the rules into account. The result has been that Sweden has been criticised on several occasions for not sufficiently respecting children's rights and that there are major shortcomings in children's ability to speak. Today, the Swedish Parliament shows that we want to change this and that we really want to strengthen children's own position. There are few things that are so painful that children get hurt. Every syllable in stories about children in vulnerability is so painful for the vast majority that the stories are almost difficult to take in. But no matter how bad we feel about it and how painful it feels, children in our world are not freed from man's cruelty. Children become victims of crime, get caught and get exploited and discriminated against. Children get to witness things we really don't want them to see and experience what we dream nightmares about them being exposed to. Incorporating the Convention on the Rights of the Child is not only a way of guaranteeing the rights of children, but also a position that shows that we see the children who are in harm's way and that we want to do everything in our power to strengthen them – that we are a country that seriously wants children to have the right to their childhood. The decision we are going to make is indeed a position of which we should be very proud. Mr President, I would like to This is a very important decision, and for this very reason we find it unfortunate that the government has not chosen to ratify the Third Additional Protocol. What it is about is that children should have the right to be heard and have their case tried with the possibility of redress when the person who violates a child's right is the state. Sweden is one of the countries in the world that is best for children to grow up in, but when it comes to children's ability to be heard and have their case tried, we fail. The Children's Ombudsman's report on children's and young people's complaints clearly states that a child's or youth's opportunity to have his or her voice heard and redress is very limited. This is very worrying because it is precisely a prerequisite for having their rights guaranteed under the rule of law. In 2011, the UN General Assembly adopted an Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the establishment of an international complaint mechanism. Several countries have subsequently signed the Protocol, which gives children in these countries a real opportunity to have their case examined before the Committee on Children's Rights when they cannot obtain it at national level. Unfortunately, there is no sign that the Swedish government is prepared to take that step. The consequence of this is that there is a risk that the new law will not have the impact that we want. In order for the new law to really take effect, we believe that a prerequisite is that every child should have effective redress mechanisms. To not sign the protocol is to risk the new law becoming toothless. That is why we have a reservation in which we call on Parliament to sign the protocol in order to seriously strengthen children's rights. Mr President, I would like to Today we have a debate in this House that is based on our desire to strengthen children's rights. We want to make sure that we do everything in our power to ensure that every child who lives and lives here has the right to a good childhood. It is a position because we want each of us to be able to grow up and have the opportunity to live good lives and grow up to be proud citizens in one of the world's finest countries. However, there is something that threatens our children more than anything else right now and that even our new law cannot remedy. It is that we would become a country based on racist ideas – a country where we are no longer seen as a people, but where we are divided into ourselves and those based on our descent and on our religious beliefs. It would be a country based on hatred. In the best of worlds, this had only been rhetorical bullshit, but today, unfortunately, it is hard facts. The actions of the bourgeoisie on the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child are further evidence of this. At a time when the Islamophobic and racist winds are blowing ever harder through Europe, where Sweden's mosques are being attacked every week and where hate crimes are increasing avalanche, the Moderates and the Center Party choose to blow on that development. They quite wrongly claim that with the introduction of the Convention on the Rights of the Child there is a risk of Islamic law being introduced in Sweden. They claim that because the legal concept of kafalah, which is a form of placement for children, is mentioned, it could have legal significance, even though they already know that it is established that national law applies and that they already know that we have clear laws establishing forms of investment in Sweden through SoL. Scary rhetoric clearly shows the price you are prepared to pay for winning political points. This is not a small position on a political issue but a choice of direction. It is a direction that is actually a threat to our children. There is not a single example in our history – not a single research report and not a single proof – that countries that are based on drawing us apart and where we are to be seen with different values are good for our children. There is no evidence that this is a way forward to strengthen children's rights. On the other hand, there is terrible evidence to the contrary. That is why every politician who does not take the development we see seriously and does everything to turn it around is a danger to our children. The politician who does not put our children first is a danger to the country we have built up – the country that we in the Left Party will do everything in our power to keep it one of the world's best countries for children to grow up in. We support the proposal in the proposal but also wish to lift our reservation No 5.
i-043e84698d2025b7-585	Mr President, I would like to May Karlsson and the Left are talking about the importance of a country not being pulled apart, and I fully agree with that. But that is precisely why this proposal is in danger of achieving the very opposite, and that is why we are critical of it. Why? Because it's not what Maj Karlsson claims. It's just the opposite. In the 2008 Swedish Adoption Investigation, SOU 2009:61, the investigator discusses a French case where the French court no longer decides on adoption when a child has previously been taken into custody under kafalah and the requirements set out in Article 20 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Based on the reasoning of this investigation, it is very possible, Maj Karlsson, that the legal situation in Sweden may be affected in certain adoption cases, for example, if Article 20 is made Swedish law. It is a consequence that should have been considered before taking a position on this proposal that you are now making and before the government had put it on the table. Kafalah does not exist as a legal institute in Swedish law today. But when you introduce the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law, this means that kafalah becomes a new legal institute in Swedish law. Then, for example, a court would have to decide whether a placement through kafalah should be legally accepted. What have you, Maj Karlsson, to say about this? This is the legal reality. It's not an invention on the part of me and the Moderates or the Center Party. I would like to hear your opinion on this issue and how you view the legal situation given this ruling.
i-043e84698d2025b7-589	Mr President, I would like to After all, the question has been raised in committee. We have heard all that we need to hear to make sure of the situation. It is very clear: national law applies. It won't mean what you're blowing up, this fear. We have clear legislation on what forms of investment exist. These are the people we have to relate to. What you are doing with this rhetoric is fueling a fear that we see having tremendous consequences in our country. To ask the question in committee and find out what it is about is very reasonable, absolutely. But continuing when we have the answer, when it is clear and even when Save the Children go out and say that this is absurd, that it is not that we are faced with introducing some kind of Islamic law by introducing the Convention on the Rights of the Child as Swedish law, is not. I find it very worrying that, at a time such as this one, one chooses to breathe life into a form of intimidation, that one does not take responsibility at all for the development we see in Europe and in Sweden which is a real threat to our children. Of course, you should find out the facts and see what's going on. Of course, there should be no question marks. But I think we have had clear answers. It has this legislation in Norway. There hasn't been a problem there. Perhaps there are problems for the Moderates' policy of introducing the Convention on the Rights of the Child as Swedish law, because there are things that you would have great problems with – things that actually run counter to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.
i-043e84698d2025b7-595	Mr President, I would like to The only cause for concern in the debate in this particular shift is that Maj Karlsson does not seem to realise that incorporating the Convention on the Rights of the Child takes the text and makes it a Swedish legal text. It is highly unclear how the incorporation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the concept of kafalah will affect Swedish law. It is clear, however, that the provisions that are set out directly in the text of the law – and what Parliament will consider is the incorporation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child – must be followed by our authorities and courts. Is Maj Karlsson aware of this? It doesn't seem that way in this line shift. The next supplementary question is whether this will mean an opportunity – or a right – to invoke kafalah instead of adoption or placement in foster homes. Will this mean that kafalah has legal significance in individual cases in Sweden? We don't know that. But Maj Karlsson seems to be prepared to implement the bill without that question being properly investigated. I think it's serious. The Moderates think it's serious. The Center Party thinks it's serious. That's why we have this reservation – not because we care less about children's rights than you do, but because we care as much or perhaps even more about their rights. We are more interested in children not being treated differently depending on ethnic, religious or cultural backgrounds. Equal treatment shall be given to equal cases. This proposal, on which the Parliament is to take a position, is in danger of achieving the reverse.
i-043e84698d2025b7-599	Mr President, I would like to That's not true. The committee itself has clearly written in that it is national law that applies, and we have clear legislation on the placement of children in SoL. There are no questions about which forms of investment exist and do not exist. You foment a debate that is dangerous for children in Sweden; it is as simple as that. Just look at who's running this. It is you, and it is the Swedish Democrats and the Center Party. The Center Party surprises me, but you don't surprise me. Of course you should find out what's going on. So did we in committee. We have been carefully informed about what is actually going on. I do not think there are any real questions about this. I don't feel at all worried. It is clear that national law applies, and we have legislation on this.
i-043e84698d2025b7-602	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the Liberals' reservation 4 to be approved. Of course, we also support our specific opinion. First of all, however, I would like to make it clear that we Liberals are behind the report. We very much want to see the Convention on the Rights of the Child as a law. Today, just before this debate, the last party leader debate for this term of office was held. There was a lot of talk, because it is done during a party leader debate, but unfortunately very little was said about children's rights. It is therefore a good thing that we now have about an hour to stand here and talk about children's rights. Many people feel a lot about this debate. There are several who have long been looking forward to this day, and I am one of them. I'm so incredibly happy that I get to be a part of pushing the button later today, when we're clubbing through the law. Children's rights issues are something I have been involved in since before I became politically active. Children's rights issues are also one of the reasons why I chose the Liberals, then called the People's Party. I am proud and happy to represent a party that has pushed the issue of the Convention on the Rights of the Child as a law for as long as we have done, and I am proud and happy about the great children's rights movement that we have put forward here in Parliament every year. Now I can also say proudly and happily that we have at least one point that we will be able to delete next year: the Convention on the Rights of the Child as a law. The proposal for the Convention on the Rights of the Child as a law was launched under the Alliance Government, was based on the Red Green Government and will finally be sailing in port by 2020. But that does not mean that the work on children's rights would in any way be over. On the contrary, that is when the greatest work begins: to really apply the law so that children's rights are strengthened and increased. It won't be easy. In parts it will be really difficult. No, the Convention on the Rights of the Child is not written as a legal text. It is because it is a convention, and conventions should not really have to become law because we should follow them when we have signed and ratified them. The problem is, we don't. We Liberals also see difficulties in this. We also see wordings that can be interpreted differently. However, I am pleased to say that we in committee have had a good dialogue, in which many of the Liberal concerns have been allayed by clarifications in the text. We have also had a good dialogue with the government and the Ministry throughout the process. It is more difficult to understand the criticism that comes from those parties who say no because it would be so difficult to implement this at all. We actually have a neighbouring country, Norway, which has done exactly what Sweden is about to do. The positive effects have been many since the Act came into force in 2003. This was told by the Ombudsman for Children in Norway in an article already in 2016. Children's rights have received increased attention, for example, in the media, where the number of articles on the Convention on the Rights of the Child increased tenfold in the period 2002-2012. In addition to the Convention as such, Article 12, in particular, concerning children's right to participation, has become applicable and has become effective. The Convention on the Rights of the Child has also become an important political tool in Norway. Virtually no children are locked up in institutions anymore. In the legislation there is now zero tolerance for violence against children, something that we have had for a long time in Sweden but that Norway did not have. In fact, what was called a lighter pat was allowed there. The number of judgments based on the Convention on the Rights of the Child has increased considerably. The Convention on the Rights of the Child has been used in court cases involving bullying, custody disputes to secure children's right to be heard, court cases weighing between prison sentences or other sentences for minors and in many other cases. Norway says that knowledge of children's rights and the Convention on the Rights of the Child has increased among both judges and lawyers. In other words, the Convention on the Rights of the Child as a law matters in practice. But – here comes a big but – anyone who believes that everything concerning children can be found in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and that as long as you incorporate it and inform about it we are at home, it is of course wrong. When talking about children's rights, it is easy to get caught up in using only the Convention on the Rights of the Child. But children's rights are also protected in Swedish legislation, for example in the Parental Code and in the Social Services Act, which was mentioned in a change of line just now. We need to talk about how the children themselves will learn about their rights. Unfortunately, far too few people have that knowledge. It is true that we are talking about the Convention on the Rights of the Child, but not about children's other rights and what the practical application of these rights means. It's just to ask children themselves. Do they know what to do if you need help? Do they know where to find the social services phone number? Do they know when they need to call there? We are often proud that children are doing so well in Sweden, and of course we should be. A lot is very good. But Norway ran away from us already in 2003. Right now Norway is running ahead of us on a lot of issues. That story of Norway, I think we can not. Many children are discriminated against in Sweden. Often it is about children in particularly vulnerable situations. This applies to children with disabilities, children in economically vulnerable families, asylum seekers children and children in community care. Will the Convention on the Rights of the Child, as a law, remove all problems? No, of course not. None of us in here believe it. If it were the Convention on the Rights of the Child on which it was based, the problems should already be gone, because we are actually committed to complying with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. But precisely because we do not do it today, more needs to be done. Sweden is repeatedly criticized for insulating children, for putting children in custody. The very first question that I asked during Question Time here in Parliament was about children who are put in custody for a long time and the isolation that it entails. I sincerely hope now that one of the last decisions I have to make during this term of office means that Sweden will not have to get that kind of criticism in the future. Making the Convention on the Rights of the Child does not solve everything, but it is a step along the way. Courts place higher demands on children than on adults in a legal process. Adults are given more space to express their views. Often this is justified by the fact that the child is not mature enough to know his own best. Not all adults know that either. By making the Convention on the Rights of the Child we show that children have their own rights, that they are subjects and not objects in their own lives and in society in general. Several of the laws passed during this term of office run counter to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Now that it becomes a law, I expect to review these proposals and those that have announced that are not compatible with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. I am really looking forward to family reunification, for example, becoming self-evident. It is not possible to choose which children are covered by the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It applies to all children. It is also not possible to choose which rights apply. It's about the whole package or nothing at all. That's where we pick the whole package. I hope that children and young people will now be more involved in the process during the two years that we have left before the law comes into force. I'm going to end with a quote from ten-year-old Maja: When she volunteered for the student council, she said: Actually, we're not just the future. We're here now.
i-043e84698d2025b7-627	Mr President, I would like to It is indeed a day of joy when we in Parliament are allowed to debate and decide on how to continue to strengthen children's rights, but it is not an end point. It is an incredibly important decision that we are going to make today, but children's rights need to continue to be defended every day for every kid who lives here and now. Childhood is not just a journey to the adult world. Childhood is not something to be defended for a child to become a little better adult. Childhood should be defended because it is the life that children live. In 1990, Sweden was one of the very first countries to ratify the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and we should be proud of that. But the struggle has not ended with it. Although we are one of the best countries to grow up, we have still placed ourselves in positions of criticism – yes, even severe criticism – because we do not live up to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It's not like Olle Adolphson writes in the children's song about the mysterious people, that childhood is just a journey where you touch things to make them ice cream. Childhood can be much tougher than that. Nor is it the way Astrid Lindgren describes in Pippi Långstrump, that all children are so strong that they can wrestle down police officers or convince social services of what is their best orphanage. We need to strengthen children's rights if children are to be protected. Incorporating the Convention on the Rights of the Child is the best way to do so. We are not saying this without very careful consideration and not without looking at how it has been done in other countries. We have not least looked at Norway, which first ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child, but after a few years it was realised that it was not enough. The rights of the child will not be strong enough unless we fully embrace them in our own legislation. In 2003, Norway decided to make the Convention on the Rights of the Child a Norwegian law. The objections raised in Sweden by the Swedish Law Council and other consultation bodies were exactly the same as those raised in Norway. But after a few years, it was not so bad. Actually, it went pretty well. What hurts a little is that when we're about to strengthen children's rights, adults sometimes have to back off. Just this week in this House, we have been given examples that the current government is not prepared to put children's rights first. It concerns the issue of adoptions on which decisions will be taken today. There the representatives of the government parties shrug their shoulders a little and say that it is contrary to the Convention on the Rights of the Child that the best interests of the child are not put first when we talk about adoptions, but there are, of course, adult interests. It should be impossible not to comply with the Convention on the Rights of the Child once we have ratified it. A few weeks ago, when we discussed in this House what should be protected by children's rights when it comes to children who are placed in the care of society. These children may most desperately need the protection and heroes of the adult world around them. The government proposed to continue to allow the isolation of children, even though it is contrary to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. What argument was used? Well, it's not legally binding. The criticism of international organisations is not legally binding, so it goes against children's rights. I hope that this will end after we have decided today to make the Convention on the Rights of the Child a law. Mr President, I would like to There is reason to consider whether it is wise to incorporate the Convention on the Rights of the Child into legislation because that is not the way we usually do it. It is one way of dealing with conventions, but the usual way is to transform conventions, that is to say, to change our legislation so that it will be in conformity with the Convention. I understand those who have been hesitant and think that it might be better if you do it in some other way. But it echoes so empty when those who have been constantly opposed to incorporating the Convention on the Rights of the Child come up with new arguments. One of those arguments is that Article 20 mentions kafalah and that it would mean that we are abandoning legal principles or opening up to some other type of legislation in our country. These are insanely empty arguments. Mr President, I would like to I would like to read from a legislation adopted in 2012, law(2012:318) on the 1996 Hague Convention, and was incorporated into our legislation, exactly what is proposed by the Ba rn Convention. Paragraph 1 of that law begins as follows: The original texts shall have the same validity. ..................................................... So we did exactly the same thing with the Hague Convention as we are now proposing to do with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Point (e) of Article 3 of the Hague Convention states that the measures referred to in Article 1 may apply, in particular, to the placement of the child in family homes or in an institution, or to the care of a child through kafalah or similar institutions. This is already mentioned in Swedish legislation. It is already mentioned in a convention that we have incorporated and made part of our legislation. To be sure, however, that there is no doubt whatsoever about the principles that apply in our country and the rights that apply to children, we Christian Democrats say in our motion that we must follow up and, if necessary, take measures aimed at ensuring that the fundamental principles of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child are respected and applied in accordance with Swedish law. There is now broad support for this in committee among those who support the proposal. It is important that this is done, because we must never rest when it comes to standing up for children's rights. Children cannot defend their rights, and so they need our support in both law and practice.
i-043e84698d2025b7-644	Madam President, I would like It was interesting to listen to Emma Henriksson's post. I will not argue against our common view on the importance of strengthening children's rights. However, I noted one thing at the end that I think is important to clarify. Emma Henriksson raised the issue of the incorporation of the Hague Convention, and what she said is not entirely correct. The Hague Convention does not mean that a principle has been incorporated into Swedish legislation which means that we have the concept of kafalah. A consultation obligation was introduced with the Hague Convention. But the term kafalah did not become part of Swedish law because the Hague Convention was incorporated. This is an essential difference, which I think Emma Henriksson would have been a little clearer in the speaker's chair than she actually was. This is what distinguishes the Moderates and the Center Party from the majority of the committees in their views on these issues. What happens, however, when one now chooses to incorporate the entire Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law is that the term kafalah becomes part of the Swedish legal text. We cannot compare the incorporation of the Hague Convention with the incorporation that is now being proposed and say that it is exactly the same and we already have the concept. It's not like that. It is only a consultation obligation laid down by the Hague Convention. Is Emma Henriksson aware of this difference?
i-043e84698d2025b7-649	Madam President, I would like The introduction of the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law has been preceded by unusually careful preparation. The Alliance government set up an investigation to look at what was the best way to strengthen children's rights. When the new government took office, the directives were amended so that the investigation would suggest how the work to make the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law would be done. The proposal has been widely consulted, and this fear did not come to light at the time. It was not this criticism that was made. After this discussion came up, we have examined whether this will change any rights. If children in Sweden lose their parents, will we have to use the legislation of another legal principle to ensure that these children are protected? We have asked Norway with the help of the Ministry, and we have looked at the experiences of Finland and Germany, where many states have even incorporated the Convention on the Rights of the Child into their constitutions. Nowhere has this been a problem. Nowhere has it been set against children's right to be cared for in a good way. The times kafalah can come in question is if a child comes to us who is already cared for in another country according to that country's legal principles. Then, of course, we must look at the rights of the child in relation to the parents it has, in accordance with the kafalah principle that has then been applied. But this is already the case today, because we are bound by international law because we have ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child.
i-043e84698d2025b7-654	Madam President, I would like Let me repeat that the difference between the Hague Convention and the incorporation that is now taking place is clear. In one case, the Hague Convention, there is a requirement for consultation. In the second case, the text of the Convention on the Rights of the Child is made into a Swedish legal text. This means that the term is introduced and given a legal meaning that the term does not have today. Whether this came out in the discussions in committee or in the consultation bodies is immaterial. The only thing that matters is that it is now, here today, on the agenda, and I received no answer from Emma Henriksson: Is there a difference between the Hague Convention and the incorporation that is now taking place? Yes or no? I think that the House has a right to know. Let me also emphasise another point. What is really serious about incorporation is that courts will have to examine whether a Kafalah placement should be legally accepted. That is not the case today. In the next step, you also have to test what the meaning of kafalah really is. This means interpreting Islamic law, and all Islamic law relates in one way or another to the Koran, which means that Swedish courts would also have to do so. It is not in line with Swedish legal tradition to take a religious writing and say that a Swedish court should decide the concept. There are many pitfalls that open up in this line of reasoning, and I do not think that those who have discussed this issue have really understood what a great deal of interference this is in relation to how Swedish legal tradition works. Incorporating the text of the convention into Swedish law means that you do so directly without being able to reword and modify it to Swedish conditions or to Swedish legal tradition. That is where Parliament is about to do today, and I think it is wrong. Finally, Madam President, I would also like to express my support for reservations 1 and 2.
i-043e84698d2025b7-659	Madam President, I would like Without rewording and without imposing duties on children's rights – that is precisely the point of incorporating the whole Convention on the Rights of the Child, because children's rights are not compromiseable. Children's rights must be defended, precisely because it is against the interests of adults that children's rights should be protected. There are several elements of the Convention on the Rights of the Child that highlight examples of the type of legislation that different countries with different legal traditions can have to fulfil their obligations under the Convention on the Rights of the Child. When it comes to protecting children who have lost their parents or cannot be cared for by their parents, Sweden has very well-designed and proven rules and well-functioning legislation. It is not a threat to children's rights to apply Swedish legislation. That is also why we in the report and in the texts that the majority have written make it clear today that it is the Swedish application of law that should apply. Then the difference in nature between the convention we have already incorporated and the incorporation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child by the decision today does not matter.
i-043e84698d2025b7-663	Madam President, I would like 中 Article 2: All children have the same fundamental rights and equal value. No one must be discriminated against. 中 Article 3: The best interests of the child shall come first in all actions relating to the child. 中 Article 6: Every child has the right to survive, live and develop. 中 Article 12: Children have the right to express their views and to have them taken into account in all matters relating to them. These articles are the four main principles of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. They are the pillars of children's and young people's right to a safe, safe and good upbringing. Madam President, I would like We members of the Swedish Parliament, in the highest decision-making body in our country, will today show together how powerful and important the work of the Riksdag actually is. The government parties, together with the Left Party, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals, have sidelined block politics because children's rights are more important. I am very pleased to hear that. Today I feel tremendous pride in being a part of this congregation. We have now gone from the negotiating tables to debating and later today deciding to finally turn the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law. This is probably my last debate in this House this parliamentary term. It has been very likely until now that children's right to a safe and secure upbringing has been the basis of my political commitment. It is therefore with enormous pride and a heartfelt joy that I can devote my last few minutes to this speaker's chair this parliamentary term to declaring that this afternoon we will press the button and decide to incorporate the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law. Madam President, I would like Throughout history, mankind's view of children's rights has changed. Immediately after World War I, it became clear to social leaders that children need their own protection. In 1924 the League of Nations, where the Swedish voice was already clearly strong, decided to declare children's rights. The League of Nations then agreed on five articles, all of which concerned the strengthening of children's rights. It also laid the groundwork for seeing children as individuals and own rights holders today. After the world had faced its second collapse with a new world war, visionary leaders came forward and created international organizations for cohabitation on earth. The result was the United Nations. The ensuing Decennials declared several basic rules of the game, such as human rights. Once again, our chief leaders realized that children's vulnerability in society needed to be specifically regulated. A long work started back in 1924 could therefore lead to the adoption of the Convention on the Rights of the Child by the United Nations General Assembly in 1989. On 20 November of the same year, Sweden was one of the first countries to ratify the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Sweden has long taken the lead in the fight for children's rights. Sweden is a country that takes on the role of role model. This time we didn't quite get there first. For example, Norway beat us to it. But it also gave us a good opportunity to study and evaluate their important work. It was therefore also quite natural for our new Prime Minister Stefan Löfven to declare in the Government Declaration on 3 October 2014 that the Convention on the Rights of the Child would now become Swedish law. Today we move from words to deeds. Madam President, I would like Sweden ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child 29 years ago. It is in itself a legally binding agreement. Why, then, is it so important that we now almost 30 years later make it Swedish law. Is there any difference? I'd say it actually is. This also shows the facts from the countries that have already incorporated the Convention. Although there are strategic measures, and despite the fact that children's rights have been continuously transformed into existing law and have been reflected in new legislation in Sweden, the rights have not had sufficient impact in the decision-making processes concerning children. The surveys of the Child Rights Investigation reveal a number of shortcomings in the impact on children's rights and a child rights-based approach. The most obvious are the shortcomings in the principle of the best interests of the child and the right of the child to express his or her views. So, Madam President, the Convention on the Rights of the Child as a law is needed. Since 2003, the Convention on the Rights of the Child has been a law in Norway. In autumn 2009, an evaluation of Norwegian law and practice was carried out in relation to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which clearly demonstrated that the Convention on the Rights of the Child has generally strengthened the child's legal status and given the Convention a higher status. The Convention on the Rights of the Child is now being taken more seriously in Norway and can also be used as a source of justice. I am convinced that it will also be able to be used as well in Sweden. I am convinced that the decision to make the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law, combined with important and necessary efforts to increase knowledge, will lead to a child rights-based approach having an impact in practice here too. Society's responsibility for children's rights is clarified, and this strengthens the role of children as own right holders. This, Madam President, is not rocket science in any way. Sweden, as I said, is not the first in the matter. Several Nordic countries have gone ahead of us, including Norway, Finland and Iceland. They have successfully already incorporated the Convention into law. It is now time for Sweden to do the same. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the report.
i-043e84698d2025b7-683	Madam President, I would like It was interesting to listen to Yasmine Larsson's description of the process that has led to today and also the reflections she made about other countries. I would like to ask a question about Norway. There are many in the Chamber who have stressed the importance of the consultation bodies in terms of how the committee has formulated itself in the conclusions. However, I am a little surprised that Yasmine Larsson has just pointed out Norway as an example. If you look at what the Administrative Court of Appeal in Stockholm writes, it is clear that they cannot see at all that the Convention on the Rights of the Child has had a special impact in Norway. How does it rhyme with the claim that Norway would be an example in terms of incorporation? Norway can by all means be an example in many other ways, and the Nordic countries have a lot in common with regard to the protection of children's rights, but to use it as an argument in this context when the consultation bodies do not think that Norway has added anything of particular interest. In Norway, as in Sweden, children's rights have long been worked on. There are, of course, parts of the Convention on the Rights of the Child that are good, just as Yasmine Larsson described in the speaker's chair, but there are also those parts that do not fit well in Swedish law enforcement. Therefore, it would have been a better suggestion to pick out those articles that could actually mean a real change instead of choosing to incorporate the Convention on the Rights of the Child with all the articles and the whole text of the law straight off. Why does Yasmine Larsson not agree with this? What is the advantage of taking all the articles and making them into Swedish legal text instead of picking out those that are essential? How's Norway?
i-043e84698d2025b7-687	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Tobias Billström for the question. I had hoped not to have to take a change of line with the Moderates, and especially not with Tobias Billström, on this issue. I have an idea of Tobias Billström and the Moderates as a Member and a party who tend to stand up for children's rights. I have a much more sympathetic view of Tobias Billström in particular than that shown in the debate here today. In many cases, the Moderates argue unwarrantedly on this issue and in the lines. Many other questions have been raised in the speaker's chair and in the line shifts Kafalah and other things. It also highlights Norway as a bad example when it comes to making the Convention on the Rights of the Child a Swedish law. Throughout the process of incorporating the law, we have received clear signals on the direct opposite. In Norway, they are clear that they have seen many benefits during the 15 years that the Convention on the Rights of the Child has been law in Norway. They have seen that children's rights have gained a much clearer position on legal issues. In our discussions, they also urge Sweden to make the Convention on the Rights of the Child a law. I don't think Tobias Billström's argument holds up. Clearly, if you do not have grounded arguments on a matter, you have to find them. It is clear that the Moderates and Tobias Billström do just that, not least in the replica shifts. It's unfortunate. I thought more about Tobias Billström and the Moderates than that.
i-043e84698d2025b7-692	Madam President, I would like As I said at the outset in the speaker's chair, I do not think anyone in this room has any opinion other than that children's rights are important and should be strengthened. What we are discussing is the method of achieving this and whether the proposal on the table of this House strengthens children's rights or opens up problems. It is important to address the debate on Norway, when that argument is used in the speaker's chair. We have a consultation body, the Administrative Court of Appeal in Stockholm, which says that it cannot see that the Convention on the Rights of the Child has had a special impact in Norway. That is relevant information for the House, and that is why I am using it. We are not, as Yasmine Larsson put it, without arguments – quite the contrary! In our reservation No 2, which we have tabled in the report together with the Center Party, we clearly state that we want a different method of incorporating the various elements of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. We want to produce Articles 2, 3, 6 and 12. In particular, given what Yasmine Larsson said in the speaker's chair on Article 12, it may be worth remembering that it addresses the child's right to be heard in matters concerning the child. Given that there is often criticism that children are not allowed to speak to the extent that legislation already provides for today, we believe that Article 12 is so important that its content should be constitutionalised. So we go further than Yasmine Larsson and her party. We go further than the government's proposal. Let's say this goes into our constitution. It could be worth having a reaction to it from Yasmine Larsson. Why is that not a better method than bringing in legislative texts, so that courts have to deal with them without us in this House having defined what we really mean by them? You have to do that when you make something into a constitution. I think our proposal would have been better. I am sorry that this will not happen. But it would be interesting to hear what Yasmine Larsson says.
i-043e84698d2025b7-698	Madam President, I would like Today, many parties in this House will put party politics and block politics aside. We are saying that children's rights are more important than cheap political points. I had really hoped that Tobias Billström and the Moderates would do the same, not least when we say in this shift that we want to go further and are a party that stands up for children's rights. Then the Moderates should reasonably be able to support what is being proposed by the majority here today. The Moderates should reasonably be able to do like other parties, who say that this is the best option for strengthening children's rights. It is a proposal that will win the majority in the Swedish Parliament. I don't think the Moderates and Tobias Billström are lying when they say they're protecting children's rights. I believe, however, that the Moderates, faced with the electoral movement we are facing, want to win cheap political points in creating debate on major issues, and I think this is one of those issues. It's incredibly sad. But I am incredibly pleased that other parties on the other side of the block border support the Government's proposal today and that we can jointly come forward with a proposal that will win a voice in the Swedish Parliament, so that we can now make the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law.
i-043e84698d2025b7-702	Madam President, listeners, viewers and listeners! The Red-Green feminist government is working systematically and purposefully to build a long-term sustainable welfare society. It happens on many levels. We invest in new sustainable transport infrastructure, we stimulate development towards sustainable construction and we develop economic instruments to make it easier for citizens to make the long-term sustainable choice in their everyday lives. That's what we call green tax exchange. Preventing ill health is, of course, also an important part of the construction of a long-term sustainable society. The Government has therefore chosen to increase resources for the Public Health Agency and has focused initiatives in the area of healthcare for increased preventive work. Madam President, I would like However, not all parties have these ambitions in terms of sustainable welfare. In the eight years of the alliance government, the number of employees in welfare fell from 134 to 128 per 1,000 inhabitants. It was a decrease of 6 people per 1 000 inhabitants. It may sound a little bit, but it was a reduction of 41⁄2 percent. The alliance years were thus worse for the welfare than the extensive budgetary adjustment of the country's finances carried out in the 1990s. At that time, the number of people employed in welfare was reduced by 5 per 1 000 inhabitants. In just four years, the feminist government has restored the destruction of welfare by the Alliance. Now the number of employees is even higher than in 2006, with 135 employees per 1 000 inhabitants or a staff increase of as much as 5.5 per cent under red-green governance. I mean that is a confirmation that welfare is growing in Sweden, Madam President. I would like to say this repeatedly to contradict the image that the political opposition often tries to paint of what has happened over these four years. Note that the figures cover everyone in welfare, both those who work for private performers as those who work for public performers. Madam President, I would like The Red Green Government is also reforming the legislation in order to modernise the laws in order to improve their functioning in the long-term sustainable welfare society. Children are our future, say political leaders often. And no one can contradict that. However, it is a formulation that is often used in contexts that want to use the situation of children as a way of signaling success, progress and the degree of well-being. It is therefore easy for children to be objectified and used for political purposes. All the leaders of the world also expressed great joy, enthusiasm and pride when they adopted at the UN General Assembly on 20 November 1989 what we are popularly calling the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Sweden ratified it the following year. Today, 196 countries have ratified the Convention, if I have understood correctly. Was it just a symbolic act in 1989? Or were world leaders serious about the convention? That's a question I think you can ask yourself after this almost 30 years. Unfortunately, even a convention in the UN does not solve all the problems that children around the world still have. Even in Sweden it is not enough, even though we want to see our country as the best and most civilized country in the world. For example, we have not ratified all the additional protocols to the Convention. There's nothing wrong with having a positive self-image. It may even be a prerequisite for moving forward, for example, to value the objectives of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and for our ministers to repeat from time to time the demands for the best interests of the child and the rights of the child. However, when we compare ourselves with other countries, we must remember that we usually compare apples with pears, as is usually said. Because countries have very different conditions, so it is difficult to compare measures taken by countries, actions, priorities and ambitions. The easiest thing to compare is, I think, the results. We in Sweden have among the best conditions of all countries in the world. Economically, in terms of competence, culturally and materially, we have extremely good conditions. I therefore believe that we cannot blame anything if we fail. We are obliged to live up to what we undertake when we sign international conventions. This also applies to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It was done initially, when we signed the convention, a fairly solid effort to ensure that Swedish law could then be considered to live up to the commitments we signed up to. That's what you do, and that's how it was perceived. However, the fact that it was then found that existing law in Sweden lived up to the requirements of the Convention does not seem to have helped. Sweden has been criticised several times because, despite this, we do not live up to all the objectives of the Convention. For example, the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child believes that Sweden needs to be better in order to comply with the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It has listed the following recommendations, which are from 2017 and, I think, the latest: For the Convention on the Rights of the Child to become Swedish law The Ombudsman for Children is given a mandate to investigate individual complaints from children.
i-043e84698d2025b7-721	中 investigating the best interests of the child in asylum and social services investigations a ban on the isolation of children in institutions 中 to ensure that the obligation to notify works when children are in harm's way 中 strengthening protection of children against sexual exploitation a study of the causes of child poverty 中 to change the Aliens Act so that children are heard in the asylum process • to ensure that no child in community care is expelled with parents from whom the child needs protection; 中 to introduce mandatory child impact assessments in all decisions and processes relating to children, for example in the context of legislation, budgetary issues and international assistance; . to ratify the Third Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on Individual Claims. When you read this list, you see that we have a lot of work to do, don't you? There are quite a few of us who find it quite embarrassing that Sweden has not progressed further in terms of the full impact of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. This, in turn, has led many over the years to write motions here in Parliament for the incorporation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, i.e. as a whole, into Swedish legislation. I myself have been exercising on this since I entered the Riksdag in August 2004 almost every year, and I know that the present spokesperson of the Green Party, Gustav Fridolin, did so before me. I haven't been the only one doing this. Some years there have been many, from several different parties, who have written motions on the incorporation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law, but there has been great opposition to the proposal. After the vote, I hope to be able to pinpoint this issue on my list of proposals that I, as a Member of Parliament, have pursued and that have come to fruition. It is, of course, particularly satisfying this time, when the resistance has been so great, especially from those whom I believe should have been primarily on the barricades for the benefit of the children, namely the courts. In fact, the judiciary has had almost 30 years to shift Swedish case law in the direction of the Convention by interpretation under the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which would be obvious. However, I have heard that many in the legal and judicial system believe that the courts have slowed down such a development rather than contributed to it. I haven't been able to explain why. As the Government's proposal points out, this step does not mean that the work is done. A great deal remains to be done to achieve the ambitions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. For a large number of years to come, Parliament will probably have to work on transforming laws that are affected by the convention in order for us to achieve it. But the great job, Madam President, is, of course, to ensure that the Convention on the Rights of the Child has an impact on the practical work of all the authorities and activities involved: in health care, in businesses, in schools and so on. In the best of worlds, a child should not have to go to a court to be heard and have his rights respected. Then it is clear that if we politicians are serious about deciding for the child's good, perhaps the most important long-term work is about ensuring that biodiversity is preserved and to slow down ongoing climate change as soon as possible, so that what we leave behind is a world with which it is possible for future generations – our children and grandchildren – to live. Another important area where, unfortunately, the future of children is also going in the wrong direction is the increasing commercialisation of basic social functions. From the beginning, children are very fragile and impressionable beings, who need support and security to develop the natural sense of consideration and community that forms the basis for our success as a species. When children are hit early by a class society that knocks out, where you are measured and valued early, where competition thins early and where even a child sees that peers are given very different conditions, we risk that our children lose some of what is unique to us democratic people. The parliaments around the world that are serious about living properly in compliance with the UN Convention on Human Rights and the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and living up to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child must do much more than legislate. This calls for a much broader social contract between citizens and democratically-governed society. But this, Madam President, is a much more difficult subject and a much tougher debate than today. The fact that we are going to decide today that the Convention on the Rights of the Child as a whole becomes a Swedish legal text is a very important step in a long process to ensure security and legal certainty for our children. We should be proud of the fact that we, who are elected for this term of office, are taking part in taking responsibility for today. I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations.
i-043e84698d2025b7-740	Madam President, I would like Finally, it is time for the Swedish Parliament, for 349 members of the Swedish Legislative Assembly, to debate and also decide to make the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law. It is a big step for all children, children's rights organisations and engaged representatives in political Sweden. I am not going to use this moment for party political analysis of who runs which child policy, even if there are three months left before the elections. I do not, above all, do so because the debate will continue. There is not an easy answer. With the Convention on the Rights of the Child as a law, we do not agree on everything, but we will continue to have debates and discussions on, among other things, substance policy and the possibility of seeing a child's perspective. Instead, I would like to thank all of you who have contributed to our standing here today. In particular, I would like to thank those representatives and parties in Parliament's children's networks who have stood up for children and who do not allow either block politics or party politics to hinder a development in which we jointly strengthen children's rights. Thank you for all doing what you believe in and for believing, like the government, in the ability of politics to change! We all need that in the time we live in. The children need it now and in the future. Politics is, as you know, to want, but also to dare – dare to be led by a conviction, in this case that children have rights, their very own ones. Children have the right to be listened to and respected and to have their views and perspectives considered. Madam President, I would like The Convention on the Rights of the Child was adopted by the UN General Assembly on 20 November 1989. Sweden was then the driving force and one of the first countries in the world to sign the Convention. Prime Minister Ingvar Carlsson has told us that it was Lisbeth Palme's commitment that made him so interested in the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The interest and conviction in children's rights have been with him all these years. In fact, he also participated when we gathered important social actors after the bill had been presented. With his experience and knowledge of both Swedish and international politics, he and many others were pleased that the Convention on the Rights of the Child became law and underlined the importance of a strong and clear political ambition. The Swedish Government ratified the Convention in 1990, and other parties also cheered for it. Today, almost all states around the world have ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child – 196 states. It has been almost 30 years since Sweden took this important step. We have since done evaluations of how the Convention on the Rights of the Child works in Sweden. The Child Rights Investigation carried out a survey of the compliance of the application of the legislation with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The investigation concluded that the Convention on the Rights of the Child has not had sufficient impact on the application of the law and that there are clear shortcomings in relation to the rights of the child under the Convention. Madam President, I would like That is not enough for those of us who want to put the best interests of the children first. Then we have to do more. We must do as many other countries, such as Norway. Incorporating the Convention on the Rights of the Child and making it Swedish law makes it clear that courts and legal practitioners must take into account the rights arising from the Convention on the Rights of the Child. This applies to assessments made in decision-making in cases and cases concerning children. By giving the Convention as a Swedish law, in combination with awareness-raising efforts aimed at authorities and municipalities, we believe that a child-right-based approach will have an impact in practice. I would like to emphasise the wording a child-right approach. That's the biggest gain with this. It should be a child rights-based approach throughout – in authorities and in municipalities, county councils and decision-makers. The incorporation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child is a clarification that human rights also apply to children and that existing rights should be taken into account. There must be no doubt whatsoever that human rights also apply to children. It must be obvious that children are allowed to express their views in situations that concern them, just as adults are allowed to. Children must be treated as bearers of rights. Children are more dependent on us adults and also more vulnerable. It affects children's ability to defend their rights themselves. That is why it is so important that, by making the Convention on the Rights of the Child into law, we make the rights of the child visible and thus also clarify the role of the child as a legal entity with its own specific rights. The child must be in focus in the situations that apply to the child. Incorporation gives the Convention a higher status and gives seriousness and weight to the rights of the child. Madam President, I would like As a child minister, it is my goal that Sweden should be one of the world's best countries to be a child in and to grow up in. That is why children's rights must have even greater legal impact. Therefore, in addition to the incorporation bill, the government has also taken the initiative to develop a guidance document that can support the interpretation and application of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The purpose of the guide is to make it easier for different actors, including in the field of law enforcement, by explaining how the interpretation and application of an international convention such as the Convention on the Rights of the Child can be done in parallel with Swedish legislation. The guidance shall ensure that the rights of the child are safeguarded in the application of the law. The Convention shall apply in parallel with Swedish law. That is the essential difference when we incorporate the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Madam President, I would like Just as Sweden ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child, several parties are now behind making it Swedish law. I welcome once again the consensus and the ability to see that we are doing this in order to put children's rights first. Let me also emphasise how important Sweden's children's rights organisations have been in the process and how important they will be in the future. They have done an incredible job, but much work remains to be done. The incorporation of the Convention into Swedish law is a major and important step, but the work continues. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Parliament is the heart of democracy. For those in our country who are children, I would like to show that there is a government and Members of Parliament who are adults and who are prepared to stand on the children's side. When there are weak, vulnerable or unprotected children, society must be strong. That is why I and the government have tabled the proposal to make the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law.
i-043e84698d2025b7-757	Madam President, I would like We'll meet again, the government and I. The last time we stood here was June 1st. At that time, we met in an interpellation debate which I had initiated and which concerned precisely the incorporation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. There are no simple answers, said the Government in the speaker's chair. No, but you may not have to complicate things either. As in my interpellation debate with the Government, I still find the government's position strange. The Government therefore proposes that kafalah should be given legal importance in Sweden despite the fact that it does not want kafalah to be applied. I quote the Prime Minister from TobiasBillström Minutes on 1 June: You know this very well. ..................................................... At the same time, the decision that the Government has lauded here in the pulpit now introduces kafalah in Swedish law. You hand over the power to the courts. How will the government and the government guarantee that the courts will not apply the legislation that the government has introduced today? I think that we have the right to have an answer in this House today.
i-043e84698d2025b7-761	Madam President, I would like I thought perhaps that after the past weeks Tobias Billström would have some more argument in a debate about making the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law. It's about strengthening children's rightigh ether wide. We are talking about 54 articles. Tobias Billström has not got caught up in an individual article. He does not get involved on the first point, which tells us what the right is, nor on the second point, which refers to how the right is to be transposed, i.e. by adapting Swedish legislation. What he hooks up on is the third subpoint, exemplifying what forms of care may exist. Tobias Billström! In no one consultation body has even mentioned the risk that we would get kafalah in Sweden. Perhaps it makes sense to tell us what it is, because it may not be known to everyone. It is a form of care in countries that have Islamic law. It does not accept adoption, but it has its own form, which is a kind of mixture of foster and family homes. No consultation body has pointed out the risk that this could become part of Swedish law. Instead, it is the 54 articles that express rights that become Swedish law. How we then do this will continue to be transformed into Swedish legislation. But do not claim that by exemplifying nursing forms we would introduce a new form of placement! I had actually expected more of the Moderates, which are a large party, and not least of Tobias Billström. Could it really be possible for the Member of Parliament not to understand how a convention is constructed? Or does he possibly not understand how we make law in Sweden?
i-043e84698d2025b7-766	Madam President, I would like The Government has a very high voice in the debate today. I don't think I would have had that in her place. It is not just Article 20 that is a problem. I can take up another article and see if the Government has better answers to it. It's Article 16. It states that no child must be attacked on his honour. Is a concept that we want to have defined in Swedish legislation in view of all the debates and discussions we have had about honour violence and honour culture? We do not have that concept in Swedish legal texts today. It is an example of a concept that would need to be clarified in order for authorities and courts to understand how it should be interpreted. Will there then be any clarification? No. The articles of the Convention on the Rights of the Child will be inserted as a direct legal text, without any clarification. What does the Government have to say about that? Let me say one more thing. I was, for many years as a minister, opposed to incorporating the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law and resisted to the best of my ability. Among other things, I did this because I listened to the wise lawyers at the Ministry of Justice. They told me that the Convention on the Rights of the Child is an excellent framework for the drafting of a new law. This should compare with the Convention on the Rights of the Child and ensure that the new legislation takes into account children's rights. On the other hand, using it when judging – in the case of the delivery of judgments – is completely meaningless, because it is far too unclear for its use. That's what a wise and knowledgeable lawyer told me. I have had her words in my head all these years and in all the discussions that I have had on this issue when I was a minister and was asked if I thought that the Convention on the Rights of the Child should be introduced into the Swedish legal text. I answered no to that question. I do not see this as a success today, Minister. I do not share your view and that of the government on this point. Neither does my party the Moderates or the Center Party. We would rather have seen that the Constitution had been used in the way we have proposed in our reservation.
i-043e84698d2025b7-772	Madam President, I would like In 2012, Tobias Billström's government made the Hague Convention Swedish law, well aware that the word kafalah was also mentioned there. The same Department of Justice to which Tobias Billström refers is completely incomprehensible to the difference between them. On the contrary, the word kafalah is mentioned in the same way. No consequences were identified at the time. There are no consequences in the future either. There are also no consequences from other countries that have incorporated the Convention on the Rights of the Child into law. I note that the involvement of children may not really be exuberant about the Member of Parliament. It's a lot of fishing in cloudy water. It is not enough that the only example that emerges and which has been tried to spin with in social media for a few weeks is kafalah, but the next example is, of course, honour. I can only say that children's rights organisations are extremely involved in this in the long run. They see, like the government and me, the need and the success that will be achieved when the Convention on the Rights of the Child becomes Swedish law. I don't know if Tobias Billström thinks it feels right or not to be on the same side as Bris, Save B arnen, Red Cross, Young Eagles and Unicef, just to name a few. At least I'm on the same side as they are.
i-RLS9RyS39jRiwtqDzA9E5C	Madam President, I would like Today's report on a more comprehensive piece of terrorism legislation mainly aims to implement the EU directive on combating terrorism and the Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. In addition, the following acts are also newly criminalised: The terrorist offence is updated so that, among other things, serious data breach is added to those crimes that may be a prerequisite for a terrorist offence. Self-study in training for terrorism should also be subject to criminal liability. Criminal responsibility for terrorist travel is extended to the country of own nationality.
i-043e84698d2025b7-777	These proposals aim to achieve more comprehensive criminal terrorism legislation in this area. Madam President, I would like As far as comprehensive legislation is concerned, we in the Moderates are making our criticisms. The proposals in the report are certainly good. But it seems that the government is only taking small and slow steps in the right direction, constantly being pursued by the Moderates and other opposition parties. Instead of concrete proposals in a report, the issue is drawn out in time by various investigative missions on several different issues. It is certainly a good thing that investigations are being set up. However, since Sweden is in general and urgently in need of getting legislation in place, it is frustrating that the time required for making the necessary proposals is constantly so great. Madam President, I would like The Moderates have launched a very detailed follow-up motion on what we believe needs to be done to achieve precisely a comprehensive anti-terrorism legislation. It deals with issues from, for example, Säpo's ability to signal and better preventive work to clear prosecution and penalties. We want coercive measures to be used more easily in order to prevent terrorist offences, and in so doing we want to reduce the demands of the props to be of the utmost importance in preventing crime to be of importance in preventing crime. In addition, it should be possible for Säpo to call a returnee for questioning, even if there are no conditions for initiating a preliminary investigation. Today, people have to agree to this, which, for obvious reasons, they rarely do. We also want to tighten the penalties for terrorist offences substantially because the legislation has not complied with the seriousness of the offences in this area. Today, for example, someone who trains, recruits or finances terror can be punished only between 14 days in prison and two years in prison. This is a very low penalty rate. We want to add six-month prison sentences to four-year prisons instead. Even for the grosser crimes, we want to raise the sentences from today's between six months' imprisonment and six years' imprisonment to prison from two years to ten years' imprisonment. Furthermore, we want to criminalise associations with terrorist organisations to include so-called support functions such as material care, transport, maintenance, cooking or the like. In order to be effective in investigations and prosecutions, cooperation between authorities must also take place to a greater extent. Sweden must work actively with other countries within the EU and the rest of the world in order to obtain intelligence and evidence to prevent terrorist offences, prosecute participants and protect us from potential terrorists in the future. Madam President, I would like Through a stricter approach to terrorist crimes, we clearly demonstrate our rejection of those who participate in or support terrorism. By providing our law enforcement authorities with better and the right tools, we can get to the people involved in terrorism in the past. Through cooperation at national and international level, we can, together with other countries, prevent recruitment, funding and participation in terrorist activities. Legislation must be put in place as a matter of urgency. Today's proposal is part of this. Much more remains to be done. I welcome the government's small steps forward. But my hope was that we could have the necessary legislation in place more quickly. Madam President, I would like The Moderates have several reservations in this report with very sensible content. But for time winning, I only ask for reservation 15.
i-043e84698d2025b7-787	Madam President, I would like We are debating the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights entitled 'More comprehensive terrorism legislation'. Feel it: a more comprehensive piece of terrorism legislation. Just the title says that the current terrorism legislation, based on cross-block talks between the Red Green parties and the Alliance, has not been sufficiently comprehensive so far. But that is what the Environmental Party's Annika Hirvonen Falk talked about as such a successful cross-block cooperation. It was clearly no more successful than the fact that the government itself has realised that it needs to supplement proposals in a complementary legislation defined here as a more comprehensive terrorism law. The sad thing in this context is that the Government's update of the terrorism legislation contains proposals that the Swedish Democrats would have highlighted early during the term of office in cross-block talks. But you didn't want to invite us in. You did not want to take on board your good proposals for the sole reason that they would come from us. You chose a party-strategic kindergarten game rather than producing as good terrorist legislation as possible in order to protect our citizens from terrorist attacks. In fact, the Swedish Democrats proposed more comprehensive terrorism legislation as early as autumn 2015, and then the government parties voted against. The report highlights the Swedish democrats' proposal to criminalise terrorist trips to their own country of citizenship. This is something that Stefan Löfven and the Red Green Government chose not to criminalise. You justified a position against a proposal to criminalise terrorist travel to a country of own nationality when the Swedish Democrats wanted to see more comprehensive terrorism legislation as early as autumn 2015. Madam President, I would like We have experienced Swedish blood on our streets as a result of a terrorist attack linked to political shortcomings. Sweden is a target in an international ideological war. The fastest growing terrorist threat is Islamists who have used the government's migration policy as a means to carry out terrorist attacks in our country and to operate internationally from our country. When this is precisely a well-known fact, the Moderates and perhaps above all the Social Democrats are arguing about when we are going to return to an even more irresponsible migration policy, which, among other things, has made the terrorist attack on Drottninggatan a real fact. Within the Swedish Democrats, there is no internal discussion about a tight migration policy as a problem. On the contrary, we understand that this is something that is necessary and a prerequisite for successful work against terrorism. Unknown migrants should not be able to enter our country and reside freely here anyway. But it is part of the Alliance's dream that it should be so, and it is part of the government's dream that it should be so. It is definitely a dream for all terrorists who want to operate internationally. Madam President, I would like As I said, the Red Green Government is now presenting a more comprehensive piece of legislation on terrorism. However, even if the government were to present more comprehensive terrorist legislation every year, it would not be a sufficient piece of terrorist legislation. Your world outlook is based on the fact that there is a problem with reinforced border controls, and with your world outlook you see no problem with the ongoing Islamisation of our country. It is your world outlook that has led to, and will continue to lead to, terrorist attacks and a continued increased threat of terror in Sweden. Madam President, I would like For the Alliance as a whole and for the Red-Greens, Sweden is a home country for terrorists who may have lied to a residence permit in our country and who may have travelled to the Middle East to kill women and children in the most terrible, unthinkable and disgusting ways. According to this report, which you have named a more comprehensive piece of terrorism legislation, you agree on one thing that the Swedish Democrats can never accept: you see unconditionally these Islamic terrorist murderers as your fellow countrymen. With your policy, these terror killers will have the right to live on Swedish contributions for the rest of their lives. It will be paid for by the rest of us, who work and pay taxes in our country. Let me be clear: the Swedish Democrats will punish terrorist murderers harder than any other party in this House. If we are allowed to decide, we will be able to take the citizenship of foreign citizens who commit crimes in this country, from those who have dual citizenship and from those who only have Swedish citizenship. The rule is to expel them for life from our country. Of course, we support all our reservations, which could have made a big difference to the fight against terrorism. However, for time to come, I choose to limit my claims and give the House a chance to vote on the Swedish Democrats' reservation 42 on the readmission of citizenship. There is a clear dividing line between the Swedish Democrats and your other parties in the fight against terrorism.
i-043e84698d2025b7-800	Madam President, I would like Making laws when you're afraid is a bit like going shopping when you're hungry: You come home with a lot of things that you didn't really want. But it is natural to be afraid when you see what it looks like in some parts of society today. Of course, it is natural for us to be afraid when we follow the reports of gang violence and shootings and how a wave of fraud affects anyone and causes enormous inconvenience. Of course, it is natural for us to be afraid when young girls are subjected to sexual harassment at festivals and that we are afraid of the powerlessness that we can feel in the face of violence in close relationships, even though this sense of powerlessness must be a fraction of the powerlessness that the victim of such a crime must feel. But high in the head for the kind of crime that makes us afraid is terrorism, and that's not so strange, is it? That is the whole purpose of terrorism: to incite fear, indiscriminately and ruthlessly. Its very purpose is to strike innocent people. Anyone guilty of this kind of vile crime deserves nothing but contempt and a lifelong separation from society, no matter what perverted motive they have considered themselves to have, no matter what justification they think they have and whether they are Anders Behring Breivik or Rakhmat Akilov. The latter recently received its judgment. This is a small victory of justice, although it is difficult to think in terms of precisely victory after a terrorist crime through five murders and 119 attempted murder. Madam President, I would like One way of dealing with justice policy responsibly – in particular the part of the justice policy that is to hit the most serious crime, such as terrorism – is to ensure that it is based on broad agreements between parties. Then it is strong, partly because it is well established by many, partly because it becomes more sustainable over time. The law enforcement authorities then have clearer rules of the game that they can adapt their law enforcement to, so that it can be as effective as possible. Most of our Swedish anti-terrorism legislation is based on very broad agreements. In two rounds of this parliamentary term, we – the parties that are serious and responsible – have worked together to develop sensible measures. In some of them, the government still has to deliver, but most of them we can dot off the list. It should be said that the Left Party, although unable to support the final product that we produced in the first negotiations, contributed constructively during several meetings and contributed to things that made the whole better. One thing that cannot be done if you claim to be a serious legislator is to seek to exploit the disgust and fear that terrorism arouses in order to foment another political agenda. Taking the badness of an individual criminal as a revenue for a whole population to share the same characteristics, to severely restrict the freedom of innocent people – adults and children – because they come from the same country as a terrorist and to use the natural and legitimate anger we feel in the face of serious crimes to undermine the rule of law is anything but responsible. Some even go so far as to question the European Convention on Human Rights and seek support for the withdrawal of the Convention which prevents us from sending people to torture and death sentences. At the same time, all of this must be in our minds when we are implementing the necessary measures to make it increasingly difficult to commit acts of terrorism. We are tightening up the laws on funding and training aimed at terror, and the loophole that has been in place to travel to a country that is a citizen of the Union is clogged by those who are doing so in order to commit terrorist crimes. Cyber-attacks are also added to those crimes which, under certain conditions, can be regarded as having terrorism as their purpose. This is good and necessary, but it is not enough. We must continue to work hard and smartly against this terrible crime, which is in danger of affecting many people and which risks turning the debate on justice into a direction in which we let fear steer and where we can be tempted to take such measures that are at risk of getting very wrong. I believe that one example of the latter is the infamous weapons directive. After the attacks in Paris, the debate on the directive gained momentum, and at the speed, many seemed to forget that it is essentially illegal weapons – not ordinary people's hunting or sporting weapons – used for terrorist crimes and other criminalities. If we put energy on the wrong things, we risk not only making it unnecessarily difficult for law-abiding citizens, but also taking important legislative and preparatory power from such measures that could really have a bearing on combating crime. Madam President, I would like One group of potential terrorists that we must not ignore are Nazis. Even now, very serious crimes are being committed with such motives, and the bombings in Gothenburg not long ago should be an alarming warning bell. Swedish Nazism seems sick enough to be a growing movement right now. Perhaps it is partly due to the increasingly lax attitude of some other responsible forces in terms of the reality, in which certain groups are allowed to be designated as scapegoats and are implicated to bear responsibility for the problems of society. Everyone's got a lesson to do there. Those of us who actually believe in the equal rights and value of all people must stand up and stand up, even if at the moment the wind is blowing in another direction. I myself and the Center Party have addressed the offence of sedition, which is dealt with in this report. I also note that the Liberals refer to the law on illegal service as a way forward. In view of the continued work, I believe that these two points are something that we will continue to work on, and there are probably more things in that part of the criminal code that we can review in order to reduce the room for manoeuvre for wrongdoers and increase security in Sweden. However, I choose not to endorse any of this today, but to see it as something that the next government will have to start working on this autumn, preferably in cooperation with those parties that will then be in opposition and who are prepared to take responsibility.
i-043e84698d2025b7-823	Madam President, I would like Too many people are suffering too much from terrorism, which is not only a threat to human life but also to our democracy. Terrorism wants to undermine the open and democratic society that we all know, and this is both cruel and ruthless. Preventing and preventing terrorism and other serious crime is one of society's most important tasks. However, all anti-terrorism legislation must respect fundamental rights and freedoms in the same way as other legislation. In a short time, violent extremist environments have been reestablished in Sweden. We watch them organize on May 1st and demonstrate their power outside synagogues. The White Power environment is now a real threat to our Swedish democracy. We will see them again during Almedalsveckan. We have a violent jihadist environment that quickly moves from idea to action. For those who want to carry out terror, there are quick and effective tools that Daish supporters are happy to share. We in Sweden have been affected, and April 7 is a date we will never forget. Madam President, I would like Parliament is legislating at a rapid pace. Block-crossing decisions have been taken. But it's gone too fast. The legislation is also too bad. This shows the low number of convictions, especially in the case of crimes that have taken place abroad, where the evidence is incredibly difficult and complex. All this should be taken into account when different parties try best to prove their most resistant to violence and extreme environments. There are big words spoken in this House, but there is a lack of a comprehensive legislative approach to terrorism. Today there is a one-sided focus on jihadistic environments. It is against this background that the Left Party is calling for a rejection of the proposal we are debating today on a more comprehensive piece of terrorism legislation, just as we have done with previous legislation. Our criticism was, and still is, the lack of a holistic approach and the fact that the legislation is very unclear in terms of financing terrorism, travelling to different countries and what training in terrorism really is. With this proposal, the law becomes only more sprawling and unclear. In our opinion, the proposal lacks sufficient evidence to show that the proposed measures would help prevent and prevent terrorism. It is simply impossible to see that the proposal would really prevent terrorism or condemn someone legally for terrorism. To tighten up already bad legislation is like building a house even though it is stated that the foundation is built on a swing. Moreover, a review of criminal law to combat terrorism is currently under way, the aim of which is to achieve effective, effective and transparent regulation which is at the same time compatible with the proper functioning of the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms, so the most reasonable thing should be to postpone further legislation in this area until the Terrorist Crime Investigation has submitted its report and the proposals have been prepared. But the government doesn't care. That is why I propose that the proposal be rejected and that reservation 1 be approved.
i-043e84698d2025b7-832	Madam President, I would like Here is a dividing line between the Moderates and the Left Party, which in itself is not unusual. I could not help asking for a reply to Linda Snecker's speech. But at least we agree that the legislation we have is not comprehensive. But the difference is that Linda Snecker thinks the government is moving too fast, while me and the Moderates think exactly the opposite. We already have a very strong threat of terror on us. We have seen acts of terrorism in Paris, Nice, Brussels, London, Manchester and Stockholm. I feel compelled to ask: What legislation does Linda Snecker want? You voted against the current legislation that is on the table. We cannot say that we should wait until the investigation is completed, that we should continue to wait and wait, when the threat is as real as it is. Linda Snecker mentioned herself on April 7. I wonder what is the Left Party's idea of how to tackle terrorism and terrorists. I think it's a little bit like waiting and watching until something happens. I don't know what's going to happen. My question to Linda Snecker is: What is Linda Snecker's proposal for appropriate terrorism legislation?
i-043e84698d2025b7-836	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anders Hansson, for very good questions! The Left Party started working on this in 2014-2015. Among other things, I have written a motion to the Riksdag on how we can counteract radicalisation in violent extreme environments. It's a big and important job. Since the exercise was written in 2015, things have happened at a furious rate. We see not only jihadist environments, which were most relevant at the time, but also white power environments, which have enormous violence capital and of which we in Sweden have a long and ugly tradition. Especially around Småland we have a geographical heritage of violent extremism. This is extremely serious and a lot of work needs to be done there. I would like to refer in particular to the Segerstedt Institute at the University of Gothenburg, which conducts fantastic research on how to combat radicalisation. That's one part, how we counteract radicalization. The second part is how we legislate against what absolutely must not happen but still happens. It is extremely important for us in the Left Party that we have legislation that works. Our strongest criticism of the legislation in 2015, which remains when we vote today, is that the financing of terrorism is extremely unclear. What is involved in financing terrorism? And what does training in terrorism mean? Is it watching a YouTube movie about how a bomb is made? Have you been trained to commit a terrorist act? And when it comes to the question of travel: What does it mean to travel to another country? If I step on an airport shuttle convinced that I will carry out an act of terror but then step off the airport shuttle, will I be charged with perhaps having committed an act of terror? These are things that the proposals do not respond to, either in 2015 or today. That is Left Party criticism.
i-8RKcY66A8gw9Xt52Xe7AfG	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Linda Snecker, for a good answer! The left is in the preventive parts, which are very important. I fully share Linda Snecker's view that it is important to prevent radicalisation. Unfortunately, according to Säpo's own data, we have a lot of people who can be considered already radicalized. We have those who have already fought and who have come home, so-called returnees. It is important that we also have legislation on how to get them prosecuted. The Left Party wants to take good initiatives to tackle precisely the prevention, but it is worse when it comes to what we are going to do with those who have come and who have committed crimes. I think Linda Snecker is putting her finger on an important question. The evidence is very difficult. How can you prove that someone has committed a crime in another country? For example, we Moderates believe that Säpo should be given the opportunity to use signal reconnaissance earlier in order to be able to find out information so that we can gather evidence. We also want coercive measures to be used at an earlier stage, even before a preliminary investigation can be initiated under the Preventive Act. In addition, we want to give Säpo an opportunity to call returnees to simply have a conversation with these people. Today it is based on their consent, which I find very strange. I wonder if at least the Left Party could support these elements of the Moderates' proposal.
i-043e84698d2025b7-844	Madam President, I would like What the Left Party wants is a law of terrorism that is not, as it is today, scattered in different parts. It is quite difficult to deal with when a terrorist crime has taken place. We want a review of the law on terrorism. We need to collect it in order to be able to use it better. We also want more comprehensive legislation. That is why we are now waiting for the Terrorist Crime Investigation, which we believe can come up with proposals that are a little better than previous proposals and have a little more focus on fundamental rights and freedoms. This is where it starts to touch when it comes to terrorism. This is where we politicians from different parties get involved in a rather heated atmosphere in society, when such terrible crimes happen. It starts to withdraw fundamental rights and freedoms, for example through early detection of signals. It is incredibly restrictive for the individual's freedom to signal, especially when it begins to occur in civil activities. It's a big departure. It's the Armed Forces who's been tracking. This ignores the Moderates and wants to transform the entire judiciary and assign it to civilian authorities. The Left Party does not think that is the way to go. Nor do we think that we should be allowed to use coercive measures to a greater extent than is being done today; it is used very much by Swedish police. It's controlled, but it's not always handled very well. We do not believe that increased coercive measures are the best way, especially when no crime has been committed. I cannot understand how a policy can be pursued in which we should start looking at people and using coercive measures when there is not even a preliminary investigation. When we know that a crime has been committed, it must be a fundamental principle to say that we are going to investigate it, not to say: I think you may have done something, and now I'm going to start looking at you.
i-043e84698d2025b7-851	Madam President, I would like The government has put forward a proposal based on an EU directive to make us even better at preventing and preventing violent extremism and terrorism. It was interesting to hear the previous speaker from, among others, the Left Party, who has opposed not only the crime prevention proposals against radicalisation and extremism, but also this kind of proposal, which is about punishing those who do not shun any means whatsoever to incite fear and fear in our society, with the aim of harming and killing us. It has succeeded in France, the United Kingdom, Belgium and Sweden. None of these proposals have been voted in favour of by the Left Party. The proposals presented in 2015 and 2017 and the proposals being discussed and debated now, 2018, the Left Party has voted against. With the policy of the Left Party, we would not have been able to judge anyone on so-called terrorist trips. With the policy of the Left Party, the Security Service had stood at Arlanda International Terminal 5 and looked at the returnees who came back from the Islamic State and its atrocities in Iraq and Syria without being able to intervene. This is the policy of the Left Party against terrorism. Madam President, I would like For the Liberals, it has been important to invest in the Security Service and the local work against domestic extremism, not least the preventive work. This is where we have the biggest problem in our Swedish society – domestic extremism. 2 000 people profess violent Islamist extremism. It is correct that we do not reach them with today's proposals, but we have put forward other proposals: to stop subsidies and funding for parishes and non-democratic organisations and to invest in the National Agency for Education, the teaching staff and the work of the municipalities. However, there are still parties in the Swedish Parliament voting down these proposals. It doesn't make any sense. Now we have to take steps forward. We believe that it is necessary to invest in the investigation capacity of the Prosecution Authority. The Social Democrats say no to this. We have also called for the criminalisation of preparations for terrorist travel in the past. The Social Democrats say no to this. That is why we have also proposed, in connection with the preparatory crime, that passports should be more easily withdrawn when there is a suspicion of a terrorist journey. We received support for this two years ago, but now I read in the report that with this approach we cannot withdraw the passport earlier, because Parliament has said no to criminalise preparations for terrorist trips. The Social Democrats are trying to get out of it by saying that this is already possible today. However, we believe that we should be able to go in even earlier and withdraw or temporarily take care of passports in case of suspicion of a possible terrorist journey. This is not a new proposal. I have been saying this for three years, Madam President, but the Left Party thinks it is moving too fast. Nothing has happened. We made a big decision in the spring of 2016, and that was to criminalize terrorist travel. But all the other suggestions that are on the table are still there, because they are under investigation. The fact that we are making decisions today is because the European Union, which we in the Liberals like, has said: you need to step up in some areas. I remember sitting at the negotiating table in December 2015 and saying to the government: Why are we excluding those who are citizens of Syria and Iraq from the paragraph about being able to criminalise terrorist travel? It was then stated that it is a fundamental right and right. I did not share that view then, and I still do not share it. We have no restrictions on the Swedish side when it comes to criminalising people who hold, for example, Syrian citizenship but are on their way down to Syria. It is only now, with today's report, Madam President, that we are correcting this mistake. But we should have done this already in December 2015 when we sat around the table in Rosenbad and discussed these proposals. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the returnees from the Islamic State. We have 300 people who have travelled to the Middle East to participate in the ruthless war of jihad in the name of terrorism. 155 have returned. I'm in favour of reservation 7 on the prosecution of returnees. Liberals have for two years been demanding not only mandatory talks with the Swedish Security Service but also mandatory criminal investigation of those who come back to Sweden. Risk analysis and dialogue are not enough; we must systematically examine all those who come back to investigate whether they have committed any crimes. It is in this way that risks are minimised, but this is what the Social Democrats say no to.
i-043e84698d2025b7-862	Madam President, I would like If you're not with me, you're against me, seems to be Roger Haddad's tactics. It's kind of like you're the Justice Committee's own Donald Trump, Roger Haddad, when you argue that way. If it does not fit your own agenda and opinion, the other party is totally wrong. Then you can stand and shout at it in the Parliament's pulpit. You are the least serious politician in the Swedish Parliament. You don't take what we do seriously. You have an unhealthy fascination for the Left Party. You spend more time studying my policy than you do developing your own policy, which is needed. Roger Haddad said in the speaker's chair that if the Left Party had the power to decide, we would not have been able to condemn anyone for terrorist crimes. Then I wonder: Are you saying that it is the Left Party that is responsible for all legislation before 2015? I am thinking in particular of the fact that we had an alliance government for eight years that was responsible for the then terrorist crime law. But now it is the Left Party's responsibility, and I wonder: What do you think?
i-043e84698d2025b7-864	Madam President, I would like I think I'm abstaining from personal attacks, but I'm focusing on the political. There is a party in this House that is calling for rejection of the proposals for stricter penal rules for terrorist offences, and that is precisely the Left Party. That is why we are having this debate with the Left Party. My post was about you saying no to everything, Linda Snecker, everything! Name a proposal that you have voted in favour of! The example I took did not apply to terrorist offences in general, but to the law on so-called terrorist travel, which you also voted down. Of all the approximately 155 people who have returned to Sweden, two are in prison, sentenced to life imprisonment for murder by terrorism. Yes, there is legislation that covers them, but it was due to good investigation and reconnaissance work at the Skövde police in another case, namely a drug case where by chance a usb memory was seized. Then you could tie them to this crime and condemn them for terrorist crimes by murder. What I mentioned was the example of terrorist travel. There are other proposals, such as punitive measures and anti-terrorist financing. During our time, we strengthened both the Act on Recruitment to Terrorism and the Act on Incitement to Terrorism. I have not checked whether you supported those proposals, but it is clear that, when we were in government, we too tightened terrorist legislation.
i-043e84698d2025b7-869	Madam President, I would like Now we are once again in a line of reasoning that if you are not with me you are against me. Roger Haddad refuses to listen to the objections of the Left Party when we refer to fundamental rights and freedoms. However, the fact that we are all free and have our democratic rights is, of course, a liberal order in terms of legislation, and that is precisely what the Left Party sees being undermined in the legislation that is under way. That is why we are critical of the legislation, and that is why we have not been there to vote on it either. On the other hand, the Left Party, to which Roger Haddad's alliance colleague Johan Hedin referred, has been involved in negotiations where I believe Roger Haddad himself sat at the table. We have discussed with the government and the other parties how we can make this legislation better. The Left Party has had concrete proposals that are currently law, but we do not agree on everything, and I have been presenting this for years. Again: If you enter into a discussion that means that if you are not there, you are opposed to it, it is difficult to take on such a little more analytical grip on what our democratic rights and freedoms should look like. You say no to everything, says Roger Haddad. What's the argument? You say no to everything. We don't. We do so with the objection that the legislation that we have on the table today is not so good, and we see this precisely because the convictions are very few. We know that the evidence of crimes committed abroad is extremely difficult, and we also see that the law passed today is something about how terrorist offences were committed in 2001 but not in 2017. That's our criticism. But Roger Haddad refuses to listen, for it sounds so much better when he expresses his own views loudly. I indulge in such politics.
i-043e84698d2025b7-874	Madam President, I would like When you don't have any arguments, it's personal attack. That is Linda Snecker's method, and as a Member of this House I find this totally unacceptable. Signal reconnaissance and secret data reading are not on the table for decisive purposes, but are investigations conducted on behalf of the Government Office. These are not the positions we are going to take today. Today we are talking about European terrorism directives where we, at the margin – the basis, I would say, already exists in Swedish legislation – clarify and tighten up certain legislation within the framework of the principles of legal certainty. I know that, because I have met the so-called LIBE Committee in the European Parliament in other contexts. They will not let anything go unless they have looked at it on the basis of human rights, the rule of law and other liberal principles. Unfortunately, Madam President, I did not receive an answer on which of all these proposals the Left Party has voted in favour. I have made a correct speech and an accurate analysis: you have voted against every proposal that has reached this House, Linda Snecker, and that is a fact. You say no even today. You are the only party in the Swedish Parliament that is calling for rejection of the bill, and that is why I think it is wrong and dishonest for Linda Snecker to say that she does not think so, because that is exactly what you are doing. With your policy, we would not have had a chance to counter radicalisation, extremism and terrorism. This is something the police and the Security Service need for crime prevention.
i-043e84698d2025b7-879	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats believe that Sweden needs to act more forcefully to prevent the emergence of fundamentalist environments. Democracy and human rights should include everyone regardless of where they live in Sweden. It is of the utmost importance to stop further radicalisation and the emergence of fundamentalism in residential areas in Sweden, in order to discourage recruitment to Islamic terrorist organisations. I want us to strengthen preventive work in the country's municipalities with the Århus model as a model. The Aarhus model is a municipal initiative in Danish Aarhus to prevent violent extremism. The work is characterised by close cooperation and clear coordination between the police, relevant authorities, schools, mosques and other local associations. It is also a question of setting up information centres where parents or relatives can call if they are concerned about the radicalisation of a person. After that, the support the family may need will be investigated on an individual level. I believe that the state must take greater responsibility for countering radicalisation and managing returnees through national response teams that can operationally support municipalities. The state is to design functioning drop-outs and family support activities that specifically target violent Islamists and that also involve Muslim communities in the preventive work. The government should take steps to meet this. Madam President, I would like There is information that between November 2016 and January 2017, two of the three persons convicted of some of the bombings carried out in Gothenburg had participated in paramilitary exercises in Russia held by the Russian Imperial Movement, an ultra-nationalist movement fighting in Ukraine. Two of the three bombs that had been placed exploded, one of which seriously injured a cleaner. In my opinion, the fact that none of the three were even charged with terrorist offences raises certain essential questions. However, the fact that they could undergo military training and ultimately risk threatening national security is at least as bad. I believe that better legislation is needed against training with foreign paramilitary groups. Anyone undergoing training abroad whose purpose is to undermine Swedish society should also be able to be severely punished. The government should come back with a bill accordingly. Madam President, I would like A significant problem that will grow in the future is that foreign power is trying to influence Sweden. One example is foreign funding of religious foundations and mosques. There are indications that financiers require control of their operations. I think it is of the utmost importance to ensure that no assembly, foundation or such things are under extremist control. There are states, foundations, organisations and others who have an interest in destabilising Sweden and undermining Swedish democracy. It is a serious threat that affects us in the long term, and Sweden must act. I propose a ban on foreign extremists being allowed to finance organisations, foundations, religious communities and political groupings in Sweden. Such a ban needs to be thoroughly investigated. One of the starting points is the consolidated list of sanctions of the United Nations Security Council. It is also likely to be supplemented by an assessment by the Security Service, the Military Intelligence and Security Service and the Police Authority. The government should return with measures as indicated. I support reservations 9, 13, 14, 19, 27 and 33.
i-043e84698d2025b7-886	Madam President, I would like It was a Friday afternoon. We would have a party congress the following day, and I was on my way home to prepare myself when I suddenly saw a very strange post: What is happening on Drottninggatan? With anxiety in my stomach, I quickly went up the stairs to listen to the news. All the channels and pages showed the same thing: A truck had driven into people on Drottninggatan. The course of events was unclear, and no one knew the extent or even whether it was over. Panic spread. What was not allowed to happen had happened, and it had not happened anywhere far away but in the middle of our dear Stockholm – on the street where we have walked so many times. I never forget how I hoped no one was hurt while I was stuck in front of the TV screen. They say bad news spreads quickly. Worried relatives, friends and colleagues called to see how I was. I wasn't on Drottninggatan, but I was thinking about everyone who was there and their relatives who couldn't get ahold of them. We were reminded of how fragile life is and how security can quickly be torn away if there is a lack of preparedness. Fortunately, that feeling disappeared quite soon, because the police, ambulance and medical staff were quickly in place. They were the heroes who risked their lives for all of us. They quickly gained control of the situation, and the perpetrator responsible for the terrorist attack was captured within just a few hours. Meanwhile, traffic was off, and people couldn't get home. Then the Stockholms opened their homes to completely strangers and offered shelter and food over their heads. In the midst of the terrible event, fear and anxiety, a community was created that said: We never give up our freedom. April 7, 2017 is a day neither of us will ever forget. We lost five innocent people, and many more were injured as a result of the terrible act of terror. Last week, the terrorist got his verdict. He received the most severe punishment of the law: life imprisonment, life imprisonment, and damages to over a hundred people. But there is nothing that can ever correspond to that terrible deed. In order to defend our open society and the people of Sweden, it is our duty to do our utmost to prevent acts of terrorism. Terrorism is one of the greatest challenges of our time, and we are not alone. All states are at risk, and in order to tackle the problem, cross-border and balanced solutions are important. Since the terrorist attack on Drottninggatan, we have taken a number of measures aimed at strengthening the work against terrorism. The government also invited other parliamentary parties to talks, and on 7 June 2017, a new cross-party agreement was reached on counter-terrorism measures. The broad agreement was necessary to strengthen the work against terrorism and suggests strong cooperation when it comes to national security. I think many of us in here agree that we will always do our utmost to keep Sweden safe. There are also more ongoing measures that will further strengthen the work and lead to more measures, including a review of terrorism legislation in order to gain a better overview of the tough legislation. We want to do more, and the government is now proposing more comprehensive terrorism legislation. The proposals extend almost all criminal provisions in the field of terrorism and have a strong focus on developing measures to prevent terrorist acts. I will mention just a few of the proposals. Terrorist crime is expanded by adding, among other things, serious data breaches to crimes that may be terrorist offences. Criminal responsibility for recruitment will be extended. The responsibility for training for terrorism should also include self-study in weapons and explosives technologies, for example. The provision on terrorist travel is extended so that terrorist travel to its own country of nationality is also punishable. The exception is Swedish citizens who travel to Sweden. Swedish courts should also in more cases be able to judge in terrorism-related crimes that have been committed abroad. The proposal aims to implement the EU Directive on combating terrorism and the Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. There is therefore a broad European consensus on the legislation proposed here today. We believe that the proposed legislation is balanced and see no conflict between the proposals and fundamental rights. The fight against terrorism is, once again, a cross-border challenge that requires common solutions. We therefore hope that when the time comes to vote on the proposal, we will have the whole Parliament with us. I therefore support the proposal in the report.
i-043e84698d2025b7-896	Madam President, I would like Liberals have a motion that the police and not least the Security Service should be able to call everyone who has returned from a conflict area and that they are automatically investigated for crimes, whether there is a suspicion or not. If there is eventually no suspicion and if the persons have not committed any crimes you can write them off. In the report you refer to some other proposals, Sultan Kayhan. It is about defection activities, a centre against violent extremism, etcetera, but it has no direct connection with our request. However, you write on the part of the majority that my claims are thus partially met, and I would like to ask the Social Democrats in what way.
i-043e84698d2025b7-898	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Roger Haddad! We assume that Säpo has control of those who come back from such trips and that Säpo may make the assessment regarding who is to be taken in. It does not have to happen automatically.
i-043e84698d2025b7-899	Madam President, I would like The Security Service is not able to call for mandatory calls, but, as previous colleagues mentioned, it is based on consent. However, this is not about any unbiased conversations before someone leaves, but it is about calling in all the returnees – for example already at Arlanda Airport, or how they now choose to enter the country. Based on the fact that the Swedish Security Service actually has an eye on these people, we believe that we should go in and conduct a criminal investigation. What do you think about that, Sultan Kayhan? That is not possible and does not happen systematically today.
i-043e84698d2025b7-901	Madam President, I would like I see it as two different issues; these are both those who plan to leave and those who return. Those who plan to leave already have measures in place, not least in this proposal. When it comes to those who come home and that it should be mandatory, I do not really know; I think that Säpo may make an assessment of who should be called in. Säpo still has every opportunity to actually investigate and keep an eye on them, and it is their job to do so. I therefore see no reason to approve your request in this area, Roger Haddad.
i-043e84698d2025b7-903	Madam President, I would like I have a couple of questions relating to the debate we have had today and the report on which the debate is based. The first question is, of course, what has changed since December 2015, when we dealt with a proposal on increased criminal liability for terrorism here in Parliament. The Swedish Democrats then triggered a follow-up motion to the government's proposal at the time with the aim of criminalising terrorist travel to a country of their own nationality. The government chose not to take it into account then but allowed it to go on terrorist trips to its own country of citizenship – what is now being addressed in this report. I just want to know what it is that has changed in the government's position and brings it to the conclusion that the Swedish Democrats called for back in 2015. The second issue concerns citizenship. We have seen how many other countries in Europe are dealing with the issue of citizenship. For example, we were able to take part in a case in Denmark where a person with dual citizenship, born and raised in Denmark, was deprived of Danish citizenship and was sentenced to life expulsion for a terrorist offence involving six years in prison. There are many other countries in Europe that also practice this, and the Swedish Democrats are one of the parties behind this. The Moderates have joined the principle of dual citizenship, but we want to go further and also be able to deprive those who have no nationality other than Swedish citizenship. Here in the Swedish Parliament, we represent this line, but the government does not want to be able to deprive people with dual citizenship who, for example, have murdered women and children in the war of terror in Syria and Iraq, one citizenship. I'm just wondering, why? What is the added value for our Swedish citizens when we keep these terrorists in Sweden? Where are they going to work? Who are they gonna live next door to when they've served their prison sentences? That'll be my second question.
i-043e84698d2025b7-909	Madam President, I would like The proposal that is now being added to travel to the country of nationality is a consequence of the EU directive. That is what the proposal is based on, and that is what is the new one. As far as the second question is concerned, as to why we cannot deprive people of their citizenship, the proposal is unrealistic. It goes against international conventions, and we also have strong constitutional protection for citizenship. That's the reason. But this does not mean that we would not have an intention to defend Sweden against terrorism. We are doing everything we can and we are continuing to develop the measures. There are more investigations going on to do this. I certainly do not agree with the Swedish Democrats' view that we should deprive people of their citizenship.
i-043e84698d2025b7-913	Madam President, I would like On the issue of criminalising travel to the country of citizenship, the government may now realise that there is sometimes a point in listening to parts of the opposition that it refuses to talk to. We highlighted this point several years ago, and now it has been several years since it has been non-criminalised to travel to a country of citizenship to carry out acts of terrorism or to train for terrorist purposes. It is a great shortcoming, and this is something that the government really should take on board. Large gaps have been built into the legislation that only now, following demands from the EU, claim to have been found need to be addressed. Criticism has existed, and the possibility of conversation has been found by inviting us into the Swedish Democrats for talks or by at least listening to our reservations. But you're a little too pretty for that. It is as I said: you are engaged in a kindergarten game in this House when it comes to such serious matters as terrorist legislation, which is intended to protect our Swedish citizens and Swedish lives. Then you'll build holes in the law. I think you should take to heart what I say here, because there's a point to that. When it comes to violating international conventions when one withdraws any citizenship, what is Sultan Kayhan's view of Denmark? What do you think of France? What is your view of many other European countries practising this? Only six months ago, we were able to read about a Danish citizen who was born and raised in Denmark, with dual citizenship. Denmark takes away the person's citizenship, for Denmark puts Danish life and the safety of Danish citizens first. The red-green government does not do this when it comes to Swedish citizens when it comes to these issues so lightly. We have full-blooded terrorists who hate our country, hate everything we stand for and hate our way of life. It won't go away because they're in prison. They must be expelled.
i-043e84698d2025b7-920	Madam President, I would like We are talking about terrorism, and we are talking about human life. I think it is cool of the Swedish Democrats to say that we should see this as a kindergarten game. We take the issues very seriously – very seriously. We will do everything we can to protect our society – our open, democratic and legally secure society. We will protect the people of Sweden. That is one reason why we have a broad consensus in the proposal that we are debating here today. That is what I want to say. Adam Marttinen says we refuse to listen. We haven't. On the contrary, we have called for talks and invited other parliamentary parties that we believe have realistic and feasible proposals that aim to defend Sweden as we also want to, while preserving and defending our open society. We have invited for talks, and twice we have reached cross-party agreements. I certainly do not agree that we refuse to listen when other parliamentary parties have wise input that will enable us to defend our society.
i-043e84698d2025b7-924	Madam President, I would like I just wanted to say that there was a little bit wrong and a little too much in my motion earlier. Our reservation is number 27 and nothing else.
i-043e84698d2025b7-925	Madam President, I would like Thank you to Sultan Kayhan for her speech. The terrorist attack in Stockholm affected us all in different ways. I feel a little bit that I repeat myself, but I am thinking of the lack of rapid action. It's something I miss from the government. The terrorist attack in Stockholm took place on 7 April 2017. But we have also had Paris 2015, Copenhagen 2015, Nice 2016, Brussels 2016, Berlin 2016, Manchester 2017 and London 2017. There has been so much, and there is a little of my criticism of the government. You've been invited to a conversation, and it's great. But I lack the drive to produce legislation. It's now 2018, and the first act I mentioned happened as said in 2015. You can go even further back. There has to be a proposal. Now comes a proposal, says Sultan Kayhan here, for more comprehensive terrorist legislation. However, it even states in the proposal that it aims essentially only to implement the EU directive on combating terrorism and the Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. This is a little bit of what I see once again; the government is not acting. This is really just a slap on the fingers of the European Union. Why doesn't Sweden do anything? So it is not just us in the opposition parties who sit here in the Swedish Parliament who say: Do something! Even the European Union says so, and only then will you do something. I can't really take it for a powerful government. Does Sultan Kayhan not think that the government should have produced a little more, a little earlier and perhaps a little more concrete proposals? Many studies are now good, but I wish that concrete proposals had also been made.
i-043e84698d2025b7-930	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions, Anders Hansson! We have a party that thinks it is going too fast, and we have a party that thinks it is going too slow. I think that the truth is well in between, and I would like to say that we are moving forward at the right pace. This is a complex piece of legislation, which is difficult to understand. We have several things to consider when we try to be accurate and prevent terrorist crimes. I share the view that we need to do everything we can to combat and combat terrorism and to get to it as early as possible. We work together on these issues. You've been there twice when we've made agreements. We are open to further talks too, and as we all intend to do our utmost to protect our society, I do not see any contradiction in this. Let us look to the future and do all we can to make things even better.
i-043e84698d2025b7-933	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Sultan Kayhan! The Moderates, and certainly the other opposition parties, have no worries about pushing the government in front of them if that is what the government needs to act. We'd be happy to. I would like to raise an issue that came up at the turn of the line with Roger Haddad and which I also raised in my speech. This applies to the opportunity of Säpo when it comes back to Sweden. Today, Mr Säpo has no opportunity to call these people for questioning without their consent. I can read from our reservation: Today it is not possible to call a return to interrogation when there are no conditions for starting a preliminary investigation. In such cases, the secret police are only able to conduct a conversation with the person in question, and this can only be done if the person in question agrees. With regard to return, there is good reason to assume that such persons can often provide valuable intelligence information. We in the Moderates therefore believe that there is a need to create a new form of preventive legislation that allows the Security Service to routinely call return to interrogation and, if necessary, also to pick up people for questioning with a view to obtaining information for intelligence purposes. This I think and the Moderates would have been a very good way forward. I usually say that I had thought of both once and twice before I had refused if the Security Service knocked on my door and said: Can we talk to you, Anders Hansson? It feels like you may not have pure flour in the bag if you refuse. I would like to hear what Sultan's objection would be to giving the Security Service this mandate.
i-043e84698d2025b7-938	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anders Hansson, for the question! The government probably doesn't need a push, but we're driving on these issues. Of course, it would be good to continue working together because this is a cross-border challenge that can require cooperation both in our country and outside our country. What I think about people who have returned to Sweden is that we have had very short implementation time in this to comply with the EU directive, so it is clear that everything may not be involved here. It has looked at what is needed to implement what is called for in the directive. This, in our opinion, is not at all part of it. Then there is also evidence that someone has done something, it is clear that the police can still call for questioning. I think that was the answer to all your questions.
i-043e84698d2025b7-941	Mr President, I would like to Four years ago, when I entered the role of Member of Parliament, I could not have imagined that the work against terrorism would be one of the most important for the Committee on Justice during this parliamentary term. On the one hand, it had not looked like that the years before, and on the other hand, a lot has happened since the election day. In January 2015, the shoots against newspaper editor Charlie Hebdo in Paris changed significantly in the European Union. At the same time, they changed a little. Leaders in many European countries joined forces to do more to combat terrorism, and we also stood up together to preserve what the terrorists wanted to threaten: transparency, democracy, the rule of law and the protection of the unconditional, absolute human rights, which are part of our definition of democracy. Today's report is the Swedish implementation of the directive that resulted from a work that started then, after January 2015. Mr President, I would like to It was not they – someone else, as Roger Haddad called the EU – who came up with something and hit someone else in the head with it, but it was we, Sweden, who joined forces with other countries in the European Union to see what we need in common within all countries. In Sweden, much was already fulfilled, and today we are filling out the gaps. Today's product may not be what any country itself had chosen, but by actually gathering together it will still be better than if each individual country had made its own solution according to its own will. That is also why this product differs somewhat from what the government has been running and working for. It is natural when 28 countries cooperate with each other. Mr President, I would like to In the debate, we have heard that things are moving too fast and that things are moving too slowly, and that is true both of them. Much has had to be done quickly. When we have seen how many people have gone from our country to join terror sects abroad, we have had to act quickly to get the legislation in place that was not even started when this government took office. It needed to be done urgently. At the same time, we needed to work long-term, because we have seen that the terrorism legislation that has emerged gradually through conventions and legislation since the attacks of 11 September has become a patchwork that has gaps and which is not in all respects effective and therefore lacks legal certainty. That is not to say that we do not have anything that works, because something has become clear as late as this week, it is that we in Sweden can condemn those who have committed terrorist offences to the law's strictest punishment. Today, I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the employees of the police, the prosecutor and the courts who have worked with all the victims and relatives to ensure that this was possible and was done in a dignified and legally secure way. Mr President, I would like to Most parties in this House have made joint efforts during their term of office to protect democratic society against terrorism and to improve prevention, legislation and the detection and prosecution of terrorist offences by the police and the Security Service. I hope that we will continue in this constructive spirit of consensus, which defends human rights and the rule of law against those who want by all means to create fear and division in our society. The Green Party wants to see more effective and comprehensive terrorism legislation that is both legally secure and easy to use, and we want to ensure that Nazis' attacks on refugees are also covered by the law. With those words, I am in favour of the proposal in today's report, which represents a few steps along this road.
i-QDgFhpSBCKYh5BKcHbMjij	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by calling for the proposal in the report and for reservation No 6. In Sweden today we have about 200 criminal gangs. We now see that, unfortunately, the gross violence is at record levels. In many of our vulnerable areas, we are currently seeing how drug sales can continue on the open street and that the police have difficulty in being able to push back this crime. There are many things that I think we should consider when it comes to our vulnerable areas, which are now judged to be 61 across Sweden. These are areas that have been largely betrayed by society, areas where confidence in the future has disappeared and schools have not been good enough. These are areas with more funding and less job opportunities. However, these are also areas where the rule of law has been ruled out – not enough police officers present, not enough security and, in fact, not enough camera surveillance. It is the issue of camera surveillance that we are debating today. Looking out over Europe, you can see that there are countries with a lot of cameras. Britain is perhaps the most famous example at one end of the scale. I would not call Sweden extreme, but we are definitely at the very opposite end of this scale. This is something that needs to change. It is not reasonable for Sweden to be a country where we do not show confidence in our law enforcement authorities' ability to use this tool. I am convinced that the police are not using camera surveillance for the sake of entertainment, but that there is a need for crime-prone places. We must, of course, ensure legal certainty and personal integrity, but we must do more. Very much of the resistance that has existed in Sweden has been based on old research, which would show that camera surveillance is not effective in fighting crime. The fact is that the new research, the new compilation, shows, on the contrary, that camera surveillance is a very good tool for the police and other law enforcement authorities on a number of given occasions. It also increases people's security. The Moderates and the Alliance have been pushing for this term of office because we believe that better tools are needed for the police. More camera surveillance is needed to repress crime. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the committee in particular, where I think we have had a very positive climate of discussion on these issues and have tried to move forward in various ways. However, I would also like to say in this House that I am disappointed with Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson, who has consistently delayed and held back on this issue during this parliamentary term. Time and again it is the committee that has had to come back to get this government to come back with legislation that allows for more camera surveillance with more possibilities for the police. In fact, as late as December last year, we made a decision in the Riksdag about the need to remove the permit requirement for the police. Now we finally get a new camera security team. But there this proposal is not included, but it has been put in an investigation that will come after this law comes into force. If the government had listened to the Alliance already then and had not defied Parliament's will – for which the KU has now been reported – we would already have been able to ensure that the police have this opportunity, which would be needed to push back crime. Nevertheless, I would like to return to the fact that the committee has shown that there is now broad consensus, which is very important. I think this is going to be absolutely crucial for us to push back the criminal gangs. With this in mind, I would like to reiterate my support for the proposal, with the hope that we can continue to have a good climate of discussion on these issues.
i-043e84698d2025b7-959	Mr President, I would like to Politics is often about balancing important values with each other – weighing one important interest in society against another. Sometimes it is a matter of choosing between something that has a short-term effect and something that has a lasting and long-term effect. For politics, the challenge is sometimes to show such great leadership that we can choose a long-term wise solution despite the fact that we may not receive a dividend for it in public opinion during the current term of office. On other occasions there is the possibility of solving a social problem against the principles on which our democratic and free society rests. These are no small issues, Mr President, and there are no easy conflicts. Legal policy is no exception. It is perhaps rather the case that justice policy often becomes the arena for this very kind of balance. The rule of law, which may be the most fundamental principles of modern liberal Western democracy, may stand in the way of methods that could be effective in law enforcement. Some make it easy for themselves and ignore the risks involved in putting important principles on exceptions. Others set the principles so high that they never want to try any new methods even though these methods could solve major problems. Mr President, I would like to I believe that effective law enforcement in itself is an important part of upholding the rule of law so that everyone living in our country can feel that they are getting the help and support they need from the police and other law enforcement authorities when they need it. That is not always the case today. When everyday crimes are prioritised and investigations are closed before they have even begun, we run the risk of having a situation where people no longer trust the rule of law, and when that happens there is no reason to defend important constitutional and democratic values. If there is no hope of justice through a state of law with strong confidence, justice will be sought elsewhere: in the law of the jungle, the right of the strong and authoritarian populism – anything that goes against what has built our country strong and made our people safe. The same final result will be achieved for those who simplify matters the other way round, who despise the demands of legal certainty and contrast it with effective justice and who do not hesitate to highlight individual examples and demand the defender of the rule of law answers to why someone accused of a serious crime should have any rights at all. It is not easy to answer this question. But it is necessary to try, because without the rule of law there is no sure justice. It may feel that way at the moment in a heated debate, but without strong confidence in the rule of law and no innocent judgment, there is no confidence in the rule of law that is necessary for a secure society. With regard to the issue of camera surveillance, we must analyse it from the same perspective as everything else in the area of justice policy. We must weigh advantages against disadvantages. The disadvantages are there in the form of risks of abuse of the material, people feeling unfree and the state, with its monopoly of violence, takes the right to monitor us too closely. These are aspects that need to be taken into account. In the second balance lies the opportunities for increased security that exist through cameras. A few years ago, most of the talk was about surveillance cameras from a crime prevention perspective. After reviewing the research situation then and finding that no sure support was actually available for cameras to have a particularly large crime prevention effect, I and many others were hesitant about camera surveillance. In recent times, however, there is quite good support for the fact that camera surveillance has another important effect, namely bringing convictions. The prosecution of criminals is, of course, important in itself and for the victims of crime, who deserve redress. But when criminals are prosecuted, they are prevented from committing other crimes, and hopefully, in the care of the penitentiary, they can find a way out of a destructive life - style. Convicting sentences can also have a strong normative effect in society. Seeing criminals actually go there reduces the tendency of others to commit the same type of crime. As we mentioned earlier, confidence in the rule of law is also increasing, as is confidence in society. Today's report highlights primarily the possibilities for law enforcement authorities to use cameras and wants to make it easier for them to do so. Of course, the use of cameras, as well as any other potentially integrity-depleting technology, must be regulated very carefully. The fact is, however, that special regulation of police use of cameras is not necessary. The use of cameras is already regulated in several other laws, mainly in the new criminal data law that we are about to adopt today and in the well-known General Data Protection Regulation. These are very well-prepared laws, which, in my opinion, clearly define the limits of this type of monitoring and how personal data should be protected and handled responsibly. Of course, I support all the reservations expressed by the Center Party and the Alliance, but for the time being, I am abstaining from calling for them today.
i-043e84698d2025b7-973	Mr President, I would like to For the Left Party, justice policy is basically about security and security – security for the public to be able to live their lives in freedom with the human rights that we have agreed, security in that society stands up to crime and is there for help and support when we need it most, security to be able to take a walk late in the evening without anything happening. Over the past ten years, the security of society has increased while the vulnerability to crime has decreased. At the same time, women and LGBT people experience much more insecurity than men in public environments. In the Crime Prevention Council's 2016 Security Survey, one third of women said that they either felt insecure, very insecure or that they do not even go out into their own residential area late in the evenings due to insecurity. Only a tenth of the men answered the same. This is one of the reasons why justice policy must always be permeated by a feminist perspective. The government is proposing a new law on camera surveillance. The aim is to increase the possibilities of using camera surveillance for personal surveillance. It will be easier for the police and municipalities to obtain permits for camera surveillance in public places for law enforcement or security-building purposes. The Police Authority and the Security Service shall be given increased opportunities to use camera surveillance without authorisation in the event of a risk of serious crime. Already today, according to current camera surveillance teams, there are great opportunities for police, authorities and other private actors to use camera surveillance of places to which the public has access. The police authority, Säpo or rescue officer have the possibility to conduct camera surveillance for a maximum of one month without the application for permission. A licence is therefore not required, but only a notification to the County Administrative Board for the monitoring of bank premises, premises of credit market companies, post offices, ATMs and so on. This also applies to camera surveillance in a subway car, by a metro station or in a parking garage. The Left Party has long been critical of camera surveillance. We stand by the fact that the best way to combat crime is not by increasing the possibilities for camera surveillance. Possibly people can experience increased security with camera surveillance, but at the same time there are studies showing that crime does not decrease with camera surveillance. Camera surveillance can lull people into a false security because there is rarely any person looking at what is happening in real time. However, evidence of crimes already committed can be more easily secured through recordings. The proposal that we are debating today means that the definition of what is considered to be a place of crime is radically changed to what is currently in force. What should be shown for authorisation to be given is that there are problems with crime where the surveillance is to take place. For certain types of places, such as public transport hubs, it is sufficient that the site can be presumed to be a criminal offence without having to be proven in the individual case. Overall, the new proposal will have far-reaching consequences in relation to what is currently in force. The Left Party is concerned about developments in which we risk being monitored in every densely populated area. Furthermore, we cannot ignore the risk that cameras can replace police dialogue and other crime prevention work. I demand that the bill be rejected and that reservation 1 be approved.
i-043e84698d2025b7-981	Mr President, I would like to We from the Liberals welcome today's proposal from the government. Basically, we believe that it is a very well-prepared proposal that will make it easier for municipalities and, not least, for the police to set up cameras in crime-prone areas and for crime prevention purposes. This is something that we have repeatedly lifted over the last three years. There are municipalities and districts that have been literally fighting a battle against municipal authorities time and again. You have not received support for your application to the County Administrative Board. Although the County Administrative Board has said yes, the Swedish Data Protection Authority has given it back. There has thus been a completely contradictory response, depending on the different interests in the legislation where integrity has been superior to crime prevention. We believe that the steps now being taken are welcome. The police can today invoke a clause in the law that you can immediately set up a camera without permission for 30 days. The criteria and requirements for this possibility are very complicated, high and even bureaucratic. With this bill, I see an opening that would facilitate this opportunity for the police. There are other examples that we have highlighted. These are attacks on synagogues and Jewish congregations. An example from 2013 was the synagogue in Malmö, which for many years worked to set up cameras also externally for crime prevention purposes, but they got no several times. It was only in 2015 that the County Administrative Board backed and gave permission. We know that there are major problems in Malmö with the threat to the Jewish congregation. However, we Liberals believe that this should not depend on how loud we are in this House or how much the media write about it. There must be legislation that makes it extremely easy for the safety-worthy parishes to be granted a camera licence. There too, this type of legislation will make things easier. We have a reservation, No 5, to which I commend it. It is a question of extending the possibility of obtaining a permit for special protection objects, for example at police stations. It's possible today to set up cameras, but according to several police chiefs and the contacts we've had, it's at the closest immediate vicinity– basically towards an entrance– that you can point a camera, but you can't point it out towards a street. The latest example is the explosion against the Helsingborg police which I visited the day after the attack. One had a camera facing the entrance, but one could not see how the possible perpetrator could prepare, plan and get to the police station to place the explosive charge with devastating consequences. As a contribution to the government, we wish to see this as well. Mr President, I would like to Finally, we from the Liberals think that this is a call for a review of the licensing obligation. It must be replaced by a duty to notify and, of course, within the framework of legal certainty and privacy protection. There's supposed to be control stations, and we know there is.
i-043e84698d2025b7-989	Mr President, I would like to I want to start by saying that camera surveillance is very important, not least for the hunters who are hunting boars. Unfortunately, this government has been slow and has been dragging its feet on this issue. Now there will be a new team that allows you to have camera surveillance at the bait site. It is part of getting to the troubles of wild boars in Sweden. Camera surveillance is an excellent complement for the police in the law enforcement work. Living in unsafe areas is especially evidence of how much better life has become when cameras have arrived and crime has moved. During the terrorist attack on Drottninggatan, it proved absolutely invaluable when terror condemned Akilov was captured in pictures in the subway. The Christian Democrats want to lift the police's permit requirement in camera surveillance in places that are particularly vulnerable to crime and places at risk of terrorist attacks. Mr President, I would like to In recent years, thefts of construction machines, machine parts and diesel have become a major concern for people living in rural areas. Thefts occur both in the forest and next to the buildings. For natural reasons, it is difficult to guard a forest machine when it stands out in the forest overnight. I had a conversation with an entrepreneur in Boxholm. He told us that from his machine diesel and machine parts are stolen for $100,000 each year. It is clear that a camera aimed at his area would dissuade many of the thefts. The Christian Democrats are therefore in favour of the proposal on the Camera Protection Act that has been submitted and the increased possibilities for camera surveillance of, for example, forest machines. The investigation on the basis of which the present proposal was based suggested that information on the address of the person who has set up the camera should be required. This has been criticised by several consultation bodies and, in my opinion, poses a risk of threat to, for example, hunters and machine owners. For example, militant activists could misuse the address details of hunters. It would also mean that potential machine thieves would know where the keys to the forest machines are. The Government now states in the bill that the new law should only introduce a requirement for information about camera surveillance, i.e. that the location is monitored by a camera. The question of which information is to be provided otherwise is proposed to be governed by the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation and other applicable personal data legislation. In my opinion, it is important that this does not lead to a requirement to indicate, for example, the address of the person who has set up the camera. The government should therefore take measures to ensure this. I would ask you to accept Amendment No 7.
i-043e84698d2025b7-998	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by asking for the approval of reservation 2. Camera surveillance is an important tool for effective law enforcement. When the police are asked what tools they want, camera surveillance is usually one of the answers. It is an important instrument for identifying, investigating and proving crime and facilitating the prosecution of the perpetrators of crime. It is a natural part of the police's activities and should not be perceived as replacing other methods. Today, camera surveillance also has broad popular support. That's not very strange either. When governments of different constellations have eroded police staffing, cameras in streets and squares provide security for an otherwise vulnerable population. Nor do arguments from the far left about privacy violations bite into place. Anyone who does not commit crimes simply does not suffer from a location being monitored with cameras. Only those who have something to hide have strong objections. The Swedish Democrats are therefore in favour of the use of camera surveillance and since joining the Swedish Parliament in 2010, have consistently pushed the issue of simplifying the regulatory framework. Already when the current law was adopted in 2013, the Swedish Democrats stated that the proposal was certainly a step in the right direction but in many and very insufficient. Among other things, reference was made to requests from municipalities and police authorities to facilitate camera surveillance even of areas that were not subject to crime. There were streets and squares, but also schools, for example. During the following parliamentary term, the Swedish Democrats have continued to push the issue of making it easier for the police to use camera surveillance. After 2015 alone we pushed the issue of increased use of camera surveillance in public places and at school buildings, the Alliance gradually began to approach our position on the issue in order to agree with us in 2017 to make it easier to monitor crime-prone locations. However, we wanted to go further than that. We also wanted to monitor locations that were not subject to crime. The debate on this took place on 6 April 2017, the day before the terrorist attack on Drottninggatan, and then all the other parties were opposed. It therefore took a terrorist attack for the other parties to wake up, and shortly thereafter the government parties called the Alliance for deliberations – the Alliance, but not the Swedish Democrats in the usual social democratic way. They wanted a simplified regulatory framework for police use of camera surveillance. The time passed, and in December 2017, the committee, fully in accordance with the policy pursued by the Swedish Democrats during this and previous term of office, issued an announcement to the government to abolish the permit requirement for police surveillance at the latest in connection with the entry into force of the new Camera Protection Act, i.e. the law we are now dealing with. It would have been nice if the government had listened to what the Riksdag, which expresses the will of the people, said about bringing about changes in connection with the adoption of the law. But they didn't. The government ignores the Riksdag and presents a bill that is not in line with what we have decided here. When the committee decided on its announcement, the government parties and the Left Party reserved themselves. But when the House decides on the announcement, the government parties withdraw their reservation. At present, therefore, the Left Party stands alone in one corner. For a long time it has been a pattern that the government parties oppose what a majority in parliament says, but then they do not reserve because they do not want to display that they do not agree with the demand. The combination of the government parties acting in this way in committee and the government not responding to the committee's demands is only to be regretted. The Alliance now has a choice to make. The Swedish Democrats are calling for the approval of reservation 2, which means that today we want to adopt a bill straight up and down to abolish the permit requirement. That's what our reservation is about. We have heard representatives of the Alliance say that this is important. If you mean it now and want to do so, there is a chance to vote in favour of our proposal in any hour's time, reservation 2. You can do it. Or you can do what you have always done, that is to say that it is regrettable and that you want something but put the decision in the hands of the government. But what is it that says that the government returns with a bill that is in line with what the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats want. It's not something that guarantees it. We know as much as everyone else that there are brake blocks in the government that is currently in control, as much as there were brake blocks in the alliance government when it came to these issues. Mr President, I would like to My call to the Alliance is to accept reservation 2 and thereby show that it is serious that it wants a change in this area.
i-043e84698d2025b7-1015	Mr President, I would like to Patrick Reslow refers to the terrible act of terror on 7 April 2017 in the discussion on camera surveillance. It may be worth noting that camera surveillance was very important when it came to catching the terrorist who did this and who is now also convicted. It is correct that the government called for talks, and that is the government's free will. I can tell you that the agreement reached between the Alliance and the government parties concerned many points to tackle terrorism, not just camera surveillance. Mr President, I would like to It is, however, a rather strange history. It sounds like the Swedish Democrats took the initiative in the Committee on Justice, but it was the Alliance that took a committee initiative for the announcement that Parliament decided in December about removing the permit requirement. The Swedish Democrats voted in favour; that is the case. I have no problem with that. Of course, we wanted the government to come back with a legislative proposal and ensure that there was a basis for consideration, because that is how we work with legislation in this House. Now Patrick Reslow and the Swedish Democrats make a point of us being able to make this change here and now, but the fact is that there is no preparation basis. This documentation will be available in August. I am critical that we do not have it on the table today, but one must keep some order on how we legislate in the Swedish Parliament. We seem to agree on how we want this camera monitoring thing to work, but we cannot go in and legislate when we do not have a processing base.
i-043e84698d2025b7-1020	Mr President, I would like to You might ask yourself how many announcements the Moderates and Tomas Tobé think a committee should make before you get legislation. The criticism from the Moderates and also from Tomas Tobé has been that the government has not heeded the request from the committee. Otherwise, I've got it wrong. But it has been clear in the discussions. If it is not considered that the requirement to abolish the authorisation requirement has been complied with, it must also be considered that the preparation has been completed. Otherwise, a new announcement would not have been made to the government. It is a strange argument for which Tomas Tobé is speaking. I am pleased that we agree on the substance of the proposal, and that must be done soon. On the other hand, I am concerned that Tomas Tobé and the Moderates, and the Alliance as a whole, put far too much faith in a government that did not heed what the Riksdag has said three months before presenting the bill. When you do not listen to Parliament at that time, why should you listen to it when the proposal is presented?
i-043e84698d2025b7-1023	Mr President, I would like to We have the order in Sweden that a government prepares the legislation. The Riksdag then works on the proposed legislation in the various committees. Yes, it may be that a parliament can decide on announcements if it believes that a government is not acting vigorously enough. Parliament can certainly initiate legislation. Let's say that Patrick Reslow would have taken that initiative on this issue – which could certainly have been discussed – we in a responsible Justice Committee would also have needed to consult on the proposal and send it to the Law Council. It is important that Patrick Reslow and the Swedish Democrats understand that it is not about writing any motions to a party congress or similar. This is about developing serious legislation that will work for the police and for our law enforcement authorities. We can discuss and speak slogans against each other and be rhetorical, but it is difficult to do so with the legislation itself. Let me remind you that the proposal has been developed since the committee initiated an announcement in December. At the time, we talked about making a proposal to abolish the obligation to grant a permit and establish a duty to notify. That committee has prepared and taken a stand in favour of completely exempting the police and the other law enforcement authorities from the law. This is a development that has taken place since the decision in December.
i-043e84698d2025b7-1028	Mr President, I would like to From the Swedish Democrats we are interested in seeing the final product. That's the only thing that's interesting. Maybe the way there doesn't matter. What is important is that we get legislation that is in line with what the wishes are from the Police Authority in particular. We can see that there is no such thing today. Although the law now in force is better than the previous law, much is lacking. We would have thought it would have been better to proceed with legislation. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that if a second announcement – the reason for doing so at all – says that the government should now do so, it must be considered that the preparation is ready. Otherwise, the Alliance would have joined the line of the government parties, the reservation that existed from the beginning, and said that we must wait until the next investigation comes. That's a strange argument. This is basically about not wanting to join a proposal that the Swedish Democrats have adopted, despite the fact that several times in the past they have changed their opinion in accordance with the demands of Swedish democrats. Tomas Tobé himself says that he originally proposed a notification requirement. That is where the discussion was when we produced the first announcement: we do not want a duty to notify, but we want an abolition of authorisation. There you gave in, and you then wanted to join our line. We can wonder who first presented the proposals, but the evidence speaks for itself. You've changed your mind in the course of your journey. If you have changed so far so far, you could have changed your mind today and joined our line. That would have been the legislation that we both want before the elections.
i-043e84698d2025b7-1034	Mr President, I would like to For many, this is a long-awaited proposal and a long-awaited report. That is a step along the way, as several of the comrades in the committee have said. The old camera surveillance law is repealed, and a new law on camera surveillance is introduced and will enter into force on 1 August. The ability to use camera surveillance is improved while the protection of privacy is strengthened. The requirement for authorisation is limited to the authorities, which I will come back to. Employers have a negotiating obligation under the co-determination act if they are to monitor workplaces. It's an important change. The Swedish Data Protection Authority shall examine the issue of authorisation and exercise supervision. Another long-awaited decision is that eel cameras will be licensed and can be used in a simpler way in the hunt for mainly wild boars, which KD's representative raised. It will also be possible to set up cameras for the surveillance of forest machinery, for example, without requesting permission, even if it is done on site to which the public has access. Mr President, I would like to The fact that our law enforcement authorities are still applying for permission to set up cameras with this law is not satisfactory. It is a concern that the government and a united committee want to change. Police work must not be made more difficult if it is possible to achieve adequate protection of privacy by other means than a permit requirement. There is a great need for our law enforcement authorities to be able to quickly monitor in order to prevent, prevent, detect and investigate criminal activities. This law makes it easier for the police and, for example, the municipalities to obtain permission to monitor cameras in public places for law enforcement or security-building purposes. It is sufficient that one place is to be regarded as a criminal offence instead of, as it is today, being particularly exposed to crime. The police and the Swedish Security Service will be given increased opportunities to temporarily use cameras for up to three months without permission at the risk of serious crime. They are also allowed to use camera-equipped drones without having to inform about it. Mr President, I would like to Both the government and a united committee believe that it should not be necessary for the police to be allowed to watch cameras in places exposed to crime. There is no proposal here in the investigation on which the law is based. The issue was raised in the June agreement on terrorist measures, but we also agreed – and I think the alliance parties are forgetting – that we should wait and wait for the referee to come up with the investigation that would be presented a few days after the agreement. It was about landing the right ones in the directives. The referrals were then received in September, and soon thereafter work began on the drafting of the directives. On 14 December 2017, the investigation was set up to deliver a proposal on 15 August. It is, after all, a breach of privacy. Both we in Parliament and the government must feel confident that there is a solid basis for the decisions we make. We look forward to receiving the documentation that the investigation will deliver in August so that the upcoming Riksdag can proceed with that part. I would also like to comment on the actions and actions of the KU in response to the complaint against the Minister of Justice. The notification concerned that the Government made the decision two days before the Riksdag decided that that part should be delivered on 25 May. In its reply to the KU, the government stated that the preparation requirements of the government form were strong and that the conditions were lacking to be ready to introduce that part until 25 May. The KU's reply states that the government's decision was intended not to unduly delay work. Two days here or there, but we still agreed, and the government made this decision. The KU also writes that the committee has nothing to say about the government's actions. I think it is quite important to point out. Mr President, I would like to I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report and for all reservations to be rejected. As this is my last debate from this speaker's seat and in the Swedish Parliament, I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mr President, the Chamber, the members of the Committee and the members of the cabinet for their good cooperation during my 16 years as a Member of Parliament. I wish everyone a happy summer.
i-043e84698d2025b7-1046	Mr President, I would like to Today, the House is going to decide on a new camera surveillance team. This law has come about during a rather difficult time, when many different processes have clashed with each other. The Green Party has been a strong driver in the European Parliament for strengthening the protection of personal privacy and personal data, personal data. A very far-reaching and strong legislation came into force while the government investigated a new camera surveillance team. It radically changed the conditions for the investigator assigned by the government to review how we can both have more effective regulation of camera surveillance for law enforcement purposes and strengthen privacy protection in camera surveillance, for example in workplaces. At the same time, there was a process between the democratic parties in Parliament where we negotiated measures against terrorism. In that agreement, we agreed that not only private actors covered by the new General Data Protection Regulation but also the police should be exempted from the requirement to apply for permission for camera surveillance. Mr President, I would like to I am a little surprised that the Moderates have such a high tone about the time when the change will come into effect. We all knew back then that it would be possible today to take a number of steps to both align Swedish legislation with the General Data Protection Regulation and improve the possibilities for the police to use camera surveillance to fight crime. I thought the Moderates would be happy that those steps are being taken now and that they are not waiting for the further preparation required to make the agreement we reached on 7 June a reality. Mr President, I would like to What I'm still happy about is the Moderates' speech on research into the effects of camera surveillance. If there was one point I made in some of the very first debates of the Committee on Justice, it was that it is central to the Green Party that we base our decisions in this House on the best possible knowledge. And the research definitely qualifies there. It is quite true that there is much research to show that camera surveillance does not have a crime prevention effect on, for example, violent crime. However, it has been effective against, for example, crimes in parking garages and pocket thefts. The Moderates refer to the existence of new research. Perhaps Tomas Tobé is thinking of the one from the United States, which shows that there may be some effect in the prevention of violent crime, especially if there is real-time monitoring of a place. I stand by the request from the beginning of the term of office: please send the evidence showing that various measures are effective against crime! The Green Party's wish is that we have effective legislation based on research and proven experience. That also applies to camera surveillance. Mr President, I would like to Vote's coming. Many colleagues are here looking forward to putting forward today's legislative proposals. I shall conclude by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-043e84698d2025b7-1063	Mr President, I would like to We don't prevent terrorism by knowing what food you choose when you're on a plane. That is the simple reason why the Left Party wants to reject this proposal. The Government proposes in the bill that air carriers should be obliged to transfer PNR data to the Police Authority. PNR data, passenger name record, are data that we as passengers leave when booking flights and at check-in. This applies, for example, to our names, travel dates, itinerary, baggage information and methods of payment. Already today, our authorities handle information from transport companies and airlines for law enforcement purposes. The police are therefore currently using PNR data to prevent serious crime in the form of drug smuggling, smuggling and money laundering. PNR data are also used to find already known people and to look for patterns, so-called profiling. The Government itself writes in the bill that the extensive data collection can potentially enable an increased survey of individuals' flights to and from Sweden. It is both sensitive and privacy-impairing data that will be collected. The Left Party is very critical of whether this is compatible with the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights and the provisions on the right to respect for privacy and the protection of personal data. Several recent terrorist offences have been committed by persons who have acted relatively unplanned in their home country, without previous flights. It is also for this reason doubtful whether collecting PNR data really prevents terrorism. Collecting data from people's air travel in view of how terrorist offences were committed on 11 September 2001, and not on 7 April 2017, is not keeping up with the development of terrorism and what is a current threat today. We fall into the old military trap of thinking to plan for yesterday's war and simply back into the future. What is very interesting is that the Police Authority writes in its referral that there are no real and realistic possibilities to comply with the ban on the processing of sensitive personal data. This applies, on the one hand, to the large amount of data that will be transmitted to the unit and, on the other hand, to the difficulty of identifying what is sensitive personal data. Then the question we need to ask ourselves is how we know that the police can dispose of the information from the data collection. This is partly about a privacy perspective, where the police themselves believe that they will not be able to comply with the ban. But it's also about how the police should actually be able to handle such a large amount of data and actually get something sensible out of their analysis of this data. It takes pretty advanced tools and artificial intelligence to analyze and find profiling consistent with a suspected terrorist. The last time I went with a police patrol, the police could hardly enter a normal car crash into their system because the IT systems are so poor with the police. I'd like the police to have both professional and advanced tools to fight crime. But then let us make sure that the police can comply with the most basic and that it works before we start legislating in this House on things that the police cannot comply with. Nor should we forget that the results that the analysis of a large amount of data, such as PNR, can generate are no better than those responsible for interpreting the analysis and results. The problem is that in this area we rely too heavily on the system itself to do the work for us. However, research in this field shows that human analysis is still an essential component for evaluating and interpreting the data collected. We can link this to the obvious risk of sensitive personal data being collected and used in mapping and profiling using these tools. There is then an imminent risk that law enforcement authorities will build too much false security into their own anti-terrorist work. At the same time, considerably greater threats may fly unnoticed under the radar. My question to the government parties is: What tools do the police have to make a data mining on quantitative data collected in order to comply with what the parliament wants to implement with this legislation on PNR, and in what way is this legislation compatible with GDPR? I want answers to that. I support the reservation that the proposal should be rejected.
i-043e84698d2025b7-1075	Mr President, I would like to Terrorism and other international crime pose a serious threat to our society. We need to respond with strong measures. The proposal for the new law under discussion today contains provisions on the obligation for air carriers to transmit PNR data to Passenger Information Units and on the processing of PNR data in activities to prevent, detect, investigate or prosecute terrorist offences or other serious crime. This is not a completely new issue, but law enforcement authorities are already using information from transport companies for law enforcement purposes. It has also been shown that the use of PNR data has been a very good tool for both police and customs in preventing and detecting serious crime, including drug and terrorist offences. Of course, we think there needs to be a balance between, on the one hand, meeting the need for access to PNR data in order to combat serious crime, and, on the other hand, promoting the protection of personal privacy. We believe that it is taken into account in the legislative proposal, and we believe that the changes will reinforce the work to prevent and combat terrorism and other serious crime. I support the committee's proposal.
i-043e84698d2025b7-1078	Mr President, I would like to Just as you say, Sultan Kayhan, PNR data is already being used in law enforcement, and hopefully it also works quite well. However, what we are going to legislate on now represents a much greater difference from the way in which the data is used today. There will be a great deal more data. It is about our names, the methods of payment we use, where we travel and, above all, what food we choose on the plane. This is a rather uncertain way of legislating. So we will give an authority, the police, which already has great powers even more to deal with. We know that the police are not a cheerleader at having very sensitive information on various lists together with personal data. One example of this is the rum register. Such a thing must not happen again. Here we stand in Parliament's Chamber and will give the police even more powers. My question, which I also asked in the speaker's chair earlier, is: What tools do the police have to make a data mining? It takes a lot of capacity to take in this much information and do a profiling of the information that has been collected. If there are not tools in the police, there are not analysts and if there are not those who can program so that the right tasks really come out, then this is very dangerous legislation. I would like answers to what the police's knowledge and powers look like. How can they get anything out of this material? And how is this compatible with GDPR?
i-043e84698d2025b7-1082	Mr President, I would like to I'm thinking the police will get what you're going to have to get out of it. They're kind of allowed to use it. But this thing about them recording what you eat on the plane doesn't add up. It does not go that far; rather, it is data on names, dates and destinations that will be stored. Then it is up to the police to decide for themselves what of it will need to be used. It's as simple as that.
i-043e84698d2025b7-1083	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, that answer makes no sense to me at all. It's not as simple as it sounds. There are other authorities dealing with sensitive data concerning, for example, people who enter our country and who may be linked to terrorism. This is a major development work, because unfortunately our Swedish authorities are not at the forefront of artificial intelligence or handling this sensitive material and actually getting something good out of it. It's not about making different lists that the police can sit and watch a bit, but it's about fairly advanced searches where the people who will then interpret what comes out of the searches will actually do a proper profiling. Swedish authorities are not there today. That is the capacity we must build in such cases, but what we are doing today is legislating quite the opposite way. We give the authorities immense powers over sensitive materials, and this is probably contrary to the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights, among other things. In addition, we give these powers to an authority, the police, which itself says in its referral that they lack both real and realistic opportunities to comply with the ban on the processing of sensitive personal data. So the police say themselves: we will not be able to do this. We do not know if the police will get anything out of doing data mining, nor will the police be able to take care of the sensitive personal data. Then my question is: why should we legislate on this, and in what way is this connected with GDPR and the harsh and good demands made in that legislation? We cannot give authorities powers and sensitive data that they are then unable to handle. It is not to legislate wisely.
i-043e84698d2025b7-1086	Mr President, I would like to The fact that we are legislating on this has to do with the fact that we probably do not share a reality view with the Left Party. We believe that terrorism is one of the greatest challenges of our time. There is also other serious crime that we need to put an end to, just as we need to prevent terrorism at an early stage. We know that it has been very effective both for the police and for customs to use this type of data to stop a lot of serious crime. To strengthen this legislation so that the police and customs are given even better tools to stop this type of serious crime, we think is very good. That is why we want this legislation. As I said, the police will receive information that they will need. Regarding the restriction of privacy, we agree that we need to protect personal integrity. With the proposal that we are putting forward, we will of course ensure it while also meeting the need that we see here.
i-043e84698d2025b7-1089	Mr President, I would like to From the Liberals, we would like to support the proposal in the report. This matter has been properly mangled, I would say, during the last term of office of the Committee on Justice, in regular discussions with the government and in important contributions to the government which represented us in Brussels when this matter has been dealt with. I would like to stress that it is important that this directive now regulates and clarifies the relationship of responsibility in Sweden with regard to the handling of this information and the mandate of the Political Authority. What we have been most concerned about, both during the last parliamentary term and now that I have been on the Committee on Justice, is the handling of so-called sensitive data. I think that the report makes it very clear that information should not be collected on ethnicity, political opinions, sexual orientation or health. It is a direct ban on it and, should it occur, it explicitly states that the data must be deleted. There are also comments on how this type of case might be considered. So it is very serious organised crime. It could be trafficking and not least terrorist crimes. It may be, as it says, evidence, but it may also be, as we have seen now, with several terrorist attacks across Europe, that it is important to try to find out afterwards whether a possible perpetrator or criminal had helpers. Then passenger data can actually be important. Here, too, European cooperation in the field of police cooperation, Europol, is well-suited. It is also clear that systematic mapping and collection of personal data should not be handled in any way, which is important, and that certain restrictions should be imposed. We believe that the Swedish recordings have been heard and can therefore support the committee's proposals.
i-043e84698d2025b7-1094	Mr President, I would like to The Green Party is part of the government and has agreed to this agreement, but I am not speaking here as a government representative, but as former MEPs and citizens. I was in this process from the beginning. And it is true, as someone said earlier in the debate, that food preferences, for example, should no longer be stored. But can someone explain to me why Grandma picks up a minor child should be registered? In what way is she a suspect, even if the child has done something? How is a child's language skills relevant to the fight against terrorism? How is my seat number on the aircraft relevant to the risk of false positive profiling suspected of terror? If I fly three times-- now I don't fly much for environmental reasons, but if someone else flies three times and happens to end up next to a terrorist suspect three times, there's a great risk of being profiled as a terrorist suspect, completely innocent. All payment information shall be stored. Who thinks credit card numbers should be stored in millions? What if there's a dishonest person working there? No, this isn't very well thought out. There are speakers here who say that the information that is being provided today is effective. Yeah, that's no wonder. 24 – 48 hours before the trip, the police are given the opportunity to scan the passenger list against previous suspects. Travel route or other reasons make it possible to become a suspect and have to undergo a check at the airport. Since the Customs Authority has the full right to control anyone, it is no wonder that customs can use these tools to select someone for control. There is no data saved. As soon as the person has passed customs, everything is forgotten and forgiven. So the integrity breach is small. The value can be great. However, in this case it is a matter of data retention, which can be used for profiling without proven effect. And it's the same thing as it always is when it comes to terrorism: Yes, it can be good to have. Let's do this just in case. Then there is no analysis of privacy or economics. In Germany, an evaluation of the Data Retention Directive was carried out. There was 0.0004 per cent increased crime clearance due to this at a cost of several billions. It's the same thing here. Now we are going to pay and pay for data storage and retrieval, but we have absolutely no idea about the added value of this new PNR compared to the way we already use PNR today would even be effective. As usual, terror. You do everything you can, but you don't care about costs and efficiency. I think we should carry out a full investigation into all privacy-implementing terrorist legislation and its costs both to the people and to the economy. Then we can decide whether to register the language skills, location numbers and credit card numbers of uninterested people or whether to hire analysts from the police who can investigate already known knowledge. This is another directive that creates 10 000 haystacks to find a needle in. It is better to focus on looking for the needle that we already know is in the haystack we have instead of creating 10,000 empty haystacks. That is what this directive will do, and that is why I am against it.
i-043e84698d2025b7-1102	Mr President, I would like to We will talk about continued Swedish participation in the stabilisation operation in Mali. We on the part of the Swedish Democrats agree with the government that the effort will continue, although we have a few reservations, reservations Nos 1 and 3, which I call for the approval. The Parliament allows a maximum of 470 more people for the stabilisation operation, which means a space for evacuations and so on. One of our reservations concerns objectives and evaluation. Any such action should have clear objectives, even if they are gradually changing. As the situation changes, you have to revise your objectives and be prepared to evaluate the operation at all times. I do not think that is enough. That is why we have a reservation on this. In all these activities, there are risks for those who make an effort for Sweden and for other countries. Therefore, we must constantly ensure that risks are minimised. What about that thing? For example, there is still a shortage of helicopters to evacuate injured and dead who participated in an operation and guarded an operation area, which may be larger or smaller. Now you reduce your area of surgery. You cannot carry out enough activities far from a camp or where you are. This reduces the area of surgery and reduces its effectiveness. It won't be as effective to be there. In view of this, I believe that in the future – I will come back to this – there will have to be a little higher demands on the UN and the parts that will be responsible for certain materials. Sweden is responsible for its part, and the UN will ensure that there are other parts. There's been a break. We need to be clear that we are not doing anything until we get some kind of guarantee that what the UN and other countries are going to manage will be in place in a delivery plan. Otherwise, it could simply expose our soldiers and others to unnecessary risks. We will return to this during the exercise in the autumn. Well, with this said about the shortcomings, we disagree with you, namely that the Swedish Armed Forces indirectly have to pay for the foreign efforts, but I think this money could be used in the Swedish Armed Forces. We need to build both civilian and military defence. Having said that, we continue to support the stabilisation effort. In some way, the parliament is in a hostage state. The mandate expires at the end of this month. Should we in Parliament decide not to carry out the task, how would we get the task force home? Would they still be down there after the end of their term of office? What preparations have been made there? I don't know. There is really no other decision to make. And now it will continue for another year. I think, as I have said before, that we should have discussed and decided earlier on what we should do if Parliament were to change its opinion for some reason. Then we want to see increased aid to the country in parallel with the effort. The civilian population is suffering something terrible down there. We think that we must try to have humanitarian aid for the civilian population. Where is the action plan when Mali's own forces take over responsibility? How are the efforts to build up these forces? I do not know anything about it, but you may know something that you can tell us in this House. In time, it is reasonable to turn over and say: Now you can handle this yourself, perhaps with counselors and others. Where is that action plan? It may exist, but I haven't seen it. To illustrate: The temporary reinforcement in the form of a warning radar sent down began in August 2017 and is now ending in June 2018. It's a warning radar, and now this ends. Is it going to be renewed? It was a very important and good need, but it ends now. Where is the continued plan, with costs? I think there is every reason to go back, sit down and analyse this carefully. It's about goals and evaluations. What good are we doing? When do they take over themselves? Can they take over for themselves? How long is that gonna last? Then we shall demand that the countries that have requested this assistance, and the UN, enter the arena and explain why they do not solve their task in terms of ensuring that there are helicopters, evacuations and so on.
i-043e84698d2025b7-1116	Madam President, I would like This summer it is almost four years since Sweden arrived in Mali with its military operation within the framework of Minusma. Despite both peace agreements and cease-fire and cease-fire agreements, the general political situation in the country has not improved; on the contrary, there are signs that instability is increasing and the security situation is deteriorating. It is no longer a matter of indirect fire directed with grenade launchers against the camp where the Swedish troops are located, but on 14 April last spring rebels went to formal attack on the so-called supercamp in Timbuktu. It was about suicide bombers combined with artillery fire and, in addition, shooting for a number of hours. There is reason to monitor closely the safety situation of the brave Swedish men and women who maintain the Swedish flag on the ground in Mali. Roger Richtoff, like many others, has noted that the bill mentions that the warning radar that was added in summer 2017 will now disappear in 2018. I have asked control questions about this myself and was told only a few hours ago by the Swedish Armed Forces that the warning radar will remain. It provides very good protection for both the camp and those who are there. It can early alert for incoming projectiles. Madam President, I would like Liberals have two reservations in the report. One is about the importance of providing early and clear information about Sweden's intention to leave the operation. The reason why we are raising the issue is that the government writes in a way that suggests that there is a possibility that Sweden will end its commitment after the extension that is now taking place, i.e. already in the summer of 2019. Now the Foreign Minister and Secretary of State Jan Salestrand at the Ministry of Defence have told the committee that it should be early and clear about the information, but if there is not a continuation after 2019, I would say that it is already very late. A year in these contexts, where others depend on our presence and support, is a very short time. The second reservation The Liberals have concerns the difficulties in evaluating the effort that Sweden is making on the ground in Mali. In our view, the international operations – the peace-promoting efforts – are subject to huge costs. It is also about wear and tear and risks for seconded personnel. If Parliament then lacks the tools to measure the success of our national effort and cannot monitor and evaluate the effort, then political governance in this policy area simply does not work. I will readily admit, Madam President, that even previous governments have not been able to formulate measurable and follow-up objectives for our international efforts. However, that is not a reason for us to continue to make no further efforts on this point. The majority of the committee writes that the proposal contains a number of political, strategic, operational and tactical objectives for the Swedish operation. I'm having a bit of a hard time reading myself to that in the bill. What the government is writing is that our efforts will help to fulfil Minusma's mandate, that is, the Security Council's resolution. It says that we will contribute to a better security in Mali and that we will deliver relevant intelligence into the UN system. These are good objectives, Madam President, but it is not possible to evaluate how well the Swedish effort works in these parts. We have nothing to measure against, and the objectives that exist are, in my opinion, far too comprehensive. We have two reservations, but for time winning I only agree to reservation number 1.
i-043e84698d2025b7-1123	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the members of the composite Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence for what I think has been constructive work on this report. It is a job that I, as President, have had the privilege of chairing this time. We all know that it is both important and appreciated that we are endeavouring to achieve as broad a consensus as possible in dealing with this type of matter. When Swedish men and women, at the risk of their own lives, make valuable efforts on behalf of Sweden to achieve or maintain more of peace and stability in troubled areas around us, it is also perfectly reasonable that expectations of us in this House and in this House are high and that we are making an effort to put aside prestige, less differences and party tactics and to gather ourselves as united a report as possible. I am therefore pleased to note that we do indeed have full support from all eight parties in Parliament on what is the main issue in this report itself, namely to support the extension of the mandate in accordance with the proposal that the government has made to Parliament. In this context, it may be worth noting that we in Sweden are quite unique in having the order that it is Parliament, i.e. the Riksdag, that makes decisions on participation in international efforts and not just the government. I am pleased and proud that we can safeguard that order and maintain broad parliamentary support for the operation, and I know that it means a lot to those directly concerned – those who go out on missions but also those who remain here at home. They all deserve our support. Madam President, I would like Tomorrow I have the great honour of going to Boden and representing the Riksdag at the medal ceremony for Mali 07. Since the beginning of this month, Mali 08 has now taken over. It is the ninth contingent if you include the first unit, Mali 00, which built the Swedish camp. It is in round numbers 2,500 Swedes who have participated in these efforts in Mali since autumn 2014, and the Swedish contribution will normally amount to approximately 320 people on site. The Swedish Force Contribution is part of the UN operation's intelligence unit, Minusmas. The UN operation is based on a mandate from the UN Security Council covering, inter alia, security, stability and protection of civilians, support for the political dialogue and reconciliation process, support for restoring the sovereignty of the state throughout the country, support for creating the conditions for humanitarian aid and support for the parties to comply with the peace agreement signed on 15 May and 20 June 2015. The effort in Mali is important. But it is not straightforward, and it is not risk-free. According to the UN operation's own website, 169 people have died during duty since the start. Fortunately, there is no Swedish among them, but it still reminds us of the seriousness. The situation in Mali is difficult, and unfortunately there is much evidence that it has hardly improved in recent times. Several rebel groups have violated the peace agreement on the basis of territorial motives, and the problems have increased. Minusma has played an important role in dealing with the security threats that have arisen as a result. The security situation worsened in 2017, especially in the central parts of the country. Terrorist attacks against both the international presence and the Malian army are now taking place on a regular basis. A clear illustration of how the situation has worsened is that hundreds of schools in the northern and central parts of the country have been forced to close since 2016 due to the deteriorating security situation and that Islamic violent groups have taken control of several areas. The situation without the presence of the UN can only be speculated, but the efforts of the international community are, of course, urgent in a difficult situation. Madam President, I would like It is important that there are ongoing evaluations and assessments of the international efforts, both for the UN operation as a whole and for the Swedish contribution. Such an assessment is facilitated by the fact that there are clear objectives for the Swedish operation. Fortunately, such a section has been added to the current bill with a number of political, strategic, operational and tactical objectives for the Swedish operation. I think that's good. It is positive that the Swedish Armed Forces and the Government are now working on reviewing the Swedish grant linked to the UN's needs and that it intends to discuss how any future contribution to Minusma or other international effort could look beyond the proposed extension until 30 June 2019. I share the assessment made in the bill that a possible continued contribution of strength to Minusma beyond this date would require a change in the direction of the Swedish unit grant. I would like to stress that any major change in the Swedish contribution must, of course, be communicated in good time with all interested parties. In this context, I would like to emphasise that the impact of the operation on defence capabilities to build national capabilities must also be taken into account in the assessments. All changes to the Swedish operation must of course also be implemented in such a way as to ensure a continued high level of safety for the participants. Madam President, I would like Swedish engagement in Mali is based on a palette of measures. In addition to the actions discussed here, there are, among other things, extensive humanitarian and development cooperation. These include efforts to strengthen democracy and gender equality, greater respect for human rights, human security and freedom from violence, and various actions related to the environment and climate. It is important, and all this should be seen in one context. Sweden has made and will continue to make important efforts in the coming year with the troops we contribute within the framework of Minusma. Although the Swedish contribution thereafter is likely to change, the Swedish commitment and willingness to contribute to achieving a better situation in Mali will remain. To conclude, Madam President, as chairman of this edition of the composite committee on behalf of the whole Parliament, I would like to thank all the Swedish women and men who, at risk of life and health, participate or have participated in international missions on our behalf. You're making an important effort! Thank you! With this, I support the proposal.
i-043e84698d2025b7-1140	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to return Jonas Gjörtler's thanks for his good cooperation in the composite committee. It is good that we have the broad agreements that Jacobsson Gjörtler points to when we send out Swedish people on international assignments, sometimes also very dangerous ones. I would like to join in his thanks to the staff who undertakes these tasks. But I would also like to thank their relatives, because this concerns not only the person himself but also the family. It is worth remembering in this context. Sweden is continuing its operation in Mali with this decision. It's an important effort. It is also a partially innovative effort in the UN system, because this is a UN-led operation. It was something that we Social Democrats demanded during our years in opposition – that Sweden should participate more in UN-led operations. It's good that we do. In addition, we have managed to contribute something quite new in the UN context, namely information gathering. It is an important basis for the rest of the overall operation in Mali. Initially, there were some problems with making use of the information, making sure it was used. However, according to the reports, the UN system and the overall strength of the operation have become better at using the information collected and provided by the Swedish part of the operation. Making this effort is important, but it is not something that we will be able to do forever. This is also clear from the bill. But as long as we do it, we will continue to do it in the absolute best way we can – and we will – because it is very competent staff that we contribute to the effort. Setting goals for the efforts was also something that we Social Democrats began to push during our time in opposition – to have clear goals and clear follow-up of the goals. It has become a reality during this parliamentary term. In the various decisions on various international actions in which Sweden participates, for example in Afghanistan, Iraq and Mali, the objectives have always been gradually clarified and improved. There is certainly more to be done in this area. Of course, proposals from all sides – for example from Allan Widman – on how we can further improve target formulations and follow-up, because it is important to do. We share that view. At the same time, I do not think that we should forget that there has really been a development during this parliamentary term in that part of the work on the actions. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to call for approval of the proposals of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy.
i-043e84698d2025b7-1147	Madam President, I would like I hesitated at the longest to ask for a reply to Kenneth G Forslund or not. However, I do not believe that Kenneth Forslund, with the best will in the world, believes that the objectives set out in the committee's report allow neither individual Members of Parliament nor political parties to measure how the Swedish effort has worked or has not worked. I can only briefly remind you what the targets are. We will contribute to better security in Mali and in the region. Yes, I think that this is a very commendable objective, but it is impossible to evaluate from the perspective of Parliament. We're gonna deliver relevant intelligence, yes, that's good, too. But how do we measure the fulfillment of that goal? I was honest and said in the speaker's chair that previous governments, alliance governments, have not been good at this either. However, if it is the view of the majority of the committee that we have now come to the goal with the target formulations, I am actually disappointed, Madam President. I hope that Kenneth G. Forslund will now tell us that yes, there is still quite a lot to do in this part.
i-043e84698d2025b7-1150	Madam President, I would like As I said in my speech, there are certainly opportunities to develop this further. There has been a development over a number of years, and it certainly needs to continue. Then I think that the objectives that Allan Widman gives examples of are not quite as broad and impossible to evaluate as Allan Widman seems to think. These are objectives that we can actually measure about how we feel they have been realised. Then the targets are not at a microscopic level of detail, and they may never be able to end up there. But, for example, the objective of our contribution to relevant information material, I feel quite convinced that we are already achieving it today. But we can certainly have even more concrete proof that this is the case. We are not in goal, and I think we will never get to the goal with some kind of perfect goal formulation and follow-up, but we have definitely come a considerable way in the decisions on various actions for a few years. Nevertheless, I think it is worth saying that this is the case, even if the work to make it even better then continues.
i-043e84698d2025b7-1155	Madam President, I would like I share Kenneth G. Forslund's view that, of course, it will never be possible to reach a goal, but I would say, with an agreement, that the possibilities for evaluation of this type of objective, which are set out in the bill, are very small. It is only when it becomes very concrete that what we contribute – for example, our presence, the number of patrol missions, the places we visit within our operating area – will increase from year to year. That could be a very concrete objective that it would be possible to evaluate. But just saying that the presence itself should contribute to stability does not work. We were in Afghanistan for 13 years. I usually remind you that the acronym of the FS missions means continuing strength. My feeling is that when we entered Afghanistan, we had not fully thought through what goals and intentions we had with the presence of troops and how the actual reconstruction within our PRT would go about. After all, a party partner of Kenneth G Forslund has also recognised this in an extensive investigation of the Afghanistan operation. We're not gonna make those mistakes again. We need to have a better track. It is about billions and about the lives and health of both Swedes and others. This calls for better governance in this area. Better governance requires concrete, evaluable and follow-up objectives.
i-043e84698d2025b7-1158	Madam President, I would like It was precisely Afghanistan's efforts that were the beginnings of us Social Democrats starting to push for target formulation and follow-up. It was not only an effort that went on for a long time, but also an effort whose character changed over time. It is not necessarily the case that what we did and are doing today much later corresponds to the goals that we might have set ourselves from the very beginning. It is therefore important to formulate objectives for such actions and follow them up. What I missed earlier from Allan Widman is a concreteness of what goals Allan Widman wants to see. Now we heard them, and we will take that with us in the further discussion. Without evaluating the different goals that Allan Widman outlined now, it is good that it becomes more concrete and not just a talk that it needs to become more concrete. It is a good thing that we are also being concrete in our wishes, and I welcome that.
i-043e84698d2025b7-1160	Madam President, I would like The most beautiful flag I know is the United Nations. Only in association can the nations of our small sphere tackle common challenges such as global warming and its various consequences. One of my strongest childhood memories comes from a summer night in 1969 when, along with a large part of humanity, I followed the first moon landing live, and suddenly the earth appears, seen from the moon, on the television screen: a blue little ball out in a large, dark universe. With even it became very clear to me and many others who watched television that summer night that we who live on this planet share a common home, however we draw up boundaries between nations, cultures, religions, socio-economic groups etc. Madam President, I would like And the guardian and caretaker of our common home is the UN, which, with its faults and virtues, is the only all-embracing political world organisation we have – someone else is not available. For a small, non-aligned country like ours, it is absolutely crucial to have a world order based on cooperation and international law, not on confrontation and the right of the stronger. For Sweden, therefore, it has always, regardless of government, been self-evident to stand up when the UN calls. There is also an obvious point in small countries contributing militarily so that the military capabilities of the world organisation do not become too dependent on the military forces of the major powers. The stabilisation operation in Mali is both UN-mandated and UN-led, and the mandate of the operation includes the protection of civilians, support for the political dialogue and reconciliation process, support for the restoration of the sovereignty of the state throughout the country, support for creating the conditions for humanitarian aid, and support for the parties to comply with the peace agreement signed on 15 May and 20 June 2015. In this way, I can only see that the criteria against which this type of action must always be tested are met. Madam President, I would like It is hardly by chance that so many fragile and disintegrating states are located in regions where the effects of climate change are already hitting water resources and food supply hard and confronting growing sections of the population with existential threats. Ruined and thin soils become fertile ground for terrorist organizations and their imaginary solutions to people's problems. Sweden has stressed in the Security Council the importance of treating climate change as a security issue. Resolution 2349, adopted last year by the Council, does just that, and although that resolution focuses on developments around Lake Chad, the same analytical approach could be applied to the events in Mali. The rapid deployment of substantial resources both to curb global warming and to mitigate the effects of the warming that has already taken place appears to be an inalienable part of all counter-terrorism efforts to achieve more than temporary successes. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to express my warm thanks to the courageous women and men who participate or have participated in this important and risky effort.
i-043e84698d2025b7-1168	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by supporting the proposal in the report of the composite committee. Yesterday it was four years since the Riksdag decided on a Swedish contribution of strength to Minusma. It is almost on the day four years ago that we continue to deal with the matter in Parliament. Today we are debating and will eventually decide on an extension of our armed operation in Mali until the end of June next year. Then it is important to start from what the current situation is and how it has changed. Many Swedish soldiers and officers have over the years contributed to the important effort in Mali. Many experiences and a lot of knowledge have been gained, and important work has been carried out. And just over a week ago, the new grouping came in. The staff is part of Mali 08, and it will assume responsibility from Mali 07. The situation in Mali was a threat to international peace and security. The security situation has deteriorated with complex attacks. It is a very demanding and challenging working environment. Last Tuesday, Timbuktu airport was subjected to a grenade attack. Four grenades struck at the airport about a kilometer from the camp. The airport and staff were also exposed to fine-calibre fire and had to seek shelter. All members of the Swedish force contribution to the UN operation are unharmed. This shows, however, what reality they are working under and how conditions can change from day to day. The mandate of the joint UN operation includes security, stability, the protection of civilians, support for political dialogue and the reconciliation process and support for the restoration of state sovereignty throughout Mali. It is also a support for creating the conditions for humanitarian aid and for fulfilling the peace agreement signed by the parties in 2015. The important Swedish UN contribution consists of both intelligence and officers, and we have approximately 320 Swedes on site in Bamako and Timbuktu. If the need arises, we can strengthen up to 470 people. It is important to look at the conditions, both on the ground in Mali and in the defence here at home. It is about how materials are used and need to be put into circulation, about the planning of materials in the Armed Forces over the next few years and about rescue and evacuation. Two important announcements were made during 2016 in connection with the Swedish Parliament's consideration of this, on the one hand, of setting follow-up targets in order to better evaluate the efforts made by Sweden in the context of Minusma and on the other hand of taking the necessary initiatives to ensure adequate access to medical evacuation. In the basis for the proposal now under discussion, we see that the aim of Sweden's efforts is for the Swedish Armed Forces to deepen their knowledge and experience of the UN's peace-promoting mission. It also says that we will build the ability of our national war units and staffs and create the opportunity to develop personnel in an international context. It is too early to say what it will look like after mid 2019, but the Swedish Armed Forces and the Government are now reviewing how the Swedish grant will develop. We see that one type or another of aid will be needed in the long term. A continued contribution of strength to Minusma beyond this period also requires a reorientation of the Swedish contribution. In the spring of the winter, the Swedish Defence Committee paid a visit to the Swedish UN delegation, and we then got a situation description of how they view the UN's role and responsibility in relation to the situation in Mali in the long term. There was talk of a 20-year perspective but also of uncertainty and difficulty in assessing how this will go and what is required over time. The government has announced that the UN will shortly be carrying out a strategic review of the entire Minus Main movement and that it will provide an important basis for the Swedish evaluation. Then it is also important to have systematic reporting and collection and to have the experience gained so that we can draw common political lessons for the future. We assume that the government is driving the development work and is as precise as possible in terms of monitoring and evaluation. We also assume that the government, in order to create participation in the continued work process, will report results and review and reflect on how to analyse the results. In this way, a basis is laid for the best possible political mandate for the next crossroads. The Center Party believes that Sweden needs to have a long-term ambition and that we need to find the most appropriate forms for what our continued commitment should look like. The discussion must be conducted with other countries, with the UN and with the EU in order to achieve the best possible position. It's important that we don't leave Mali. Sweden has participated in efforts to combat terrorists in other parts of the world, including in Iraq, where we are also active, and we are following developments in different countries. It is very important that the situation in Mali does not move in the direction that it becomes a haven for terrorists to act against targets in Sweden, in Europe or elsewhere. Madam President, I would like The Center Party believes that what we have been exercising, together with the other alliance parties, is covered in the report.
i-043e84698d2025b7-1187	Madam President, I would like We are now debating Swedish participation in the United Nations stabilisation operation in Mali. The Left Party shares the committee's position that the Parliament should extend the mandate of the UN operation in Mali, Minusma, until 30 June 2019, provided that there is a mandate for international law decided by the UN also after 30 June 2018. The international legal basis for the participation of military forces in peace-promoting international efforts is crucial to the Left Party's position. We note that, with regard to the operation in Mali, there is a very clear mandate in international law. Swedish participation responds to a direct request from the UN. In addition to the mandate of the UN Security Council, there is also an invitation to the UN from the Government of Mali. We are pleased that the Malian operation has a clear UN mandate and is also under the leadership of the UN. Through international law, the UN has a special position as the body capable of giving mandate to international military operations on the basis of international law. The Left Party believes that Sweden should only participate in international efforts that have a UN mandate and are UN-led and that Sweden's contribution to UN efforts can increase. In this way, our country can help to strengthen the credibility of the UN system. The effort in Mali is important and makes a difference. However, the situation in Mali is serious. Despite the peace agreement signed on 5 May 2015, the security situation has not improved, rather the opposite. Minusma has played an important role in dealing with the security threats that have arisen, although there are shortcomings within Minusma – something the UN is aware of and working to address. Against this background, it is important that the Swedish Armed Forces make ongoing threats and risk assessments and take any action based on this assessment. It is also good that there is some flexibility if there is a need for rapid reinforcement. The Left Party shares the overall objectives of Sweden's participation in Minusma, which aims to contribute to improved security in Mali and long-term peace. A not insignificant goal is also that participation in Minusma provides the Swedish Armed Forces with deeper knowledge and experience of UN peace-promoting efforts and builds up the capabilities of our national war units. One of the most important tasks is, of course, to protect civilians. Unfortunately, we see human rights being violated in Mali as a result of the conflict. These include lawlessness, extrajudicial executions, torture or other abusive treatment, sexual violence, arbitrary detention and the recruitment of child soldiers. We know that women are particularly vulnerable to war and conflict. It is therefore good that Sweden as a participant in Minusma should support and accelerate efforts to implement Security Council Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security and Resolution 1820 on sexual violence in armed conflicts. It is an extremely important piece of work that needs to be strengthened and developed. It is also excellent that Sweden will continue to maintain a high profile in terms of zero tolerance to sexual abuse and sexual exploitation by peacekeeping personnel. It is good that there is a great deal of agreement behind the proposal to continue the military peacekeeping operation in Mali. It is an important decision because it is about sending men and women into action where they ultimately risk their lives. The Left Party believes that it is important that this responsibility now and also in the future should be in the Swedish parliament. It is then possible for citizens to demand responsibility for such heavy decisions as they are. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all those who have participated in the Malian operation in the years that have been and to those who will do so in the future. They are doing this dangerous but important work on the ground in the service of peace. Mali is one of the poorest countries in the world. I myself have visited the country and seen the crying poverty with my own eyes. According to the UN today, 4.1 million people in Mali need humanitarian aid. Over 600,000 children are undernourished. The drought, the high grain prices and the conflict have made the situation more difficult. The conflict in Mali has also contributed to large refugee movements within and between the countries of the region. Poverty is a breeding ground for discontent and conflict both in Mali and around the world. It is therefore a good thing that the Swedish operation also contains comprehensive humanitarian aid. In 2017, Sweden was the third largest bilateral donor to Mali with humanitarian aid totalling SEK 105 million. It is good and important that the support is long-term and that Sweden, as one of few countries, signs multi-annual agreements and advocates programme support unlike short-term projects. It is also positive that Sweden is providing comprehensive basic budget support to UN humanitarian organisations and the International Committee of the Red Cross, which has significant operations in Mali. I support the proposal in the report.
i-LaPXFuGg7Sanwkb11j4hPY	Madam President, I would like The Government has proposed in the bill that the Riksdag authorise the Government to make available an armed force for continued participation in the UN stabilisation operation in Mali, Minusma, until the end of June 2019, provided that there is a valid UN mandate for the force. The mandate of the operation shall include, inter alia, security, stability and protection of civilians, support for the political dialogue and reconciliation process, support for creating the conditions for humanitarian assistance and support for the Parties to comply with the peace agreement signed in 2015. Implementation of the peace agreement has been slow and extremist groups are still present in the northern and central parts of Mali in particular. The security situation is therefore very worrying with widespread human suffering. Human rights violations related to the conflict are reported regularly. These include lawlessness, torture, arbitrary detention, sexual violence and the recruitment of child soldiers. Freedom of punishment is widespread in the country. Minusma's presence in Mali is crucial to bringing about some kind of stability in Mali. Support for the Malian government also aims to build trust between the population and state actors and to promote dialogue, a reconciliation process and reduced tensions between different groupings. We are proud to note that Swedish women and men have contributed to Minusma's important work in order for the peace agreement to take steps forward and the implementation will finally become a reality. This makes Mali and the world a little safer. In this report, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence is proposing that Sweden continue to contribute to the stabilisation effort in Mali. The Christian Democrats agree with that. What we are going to vote on in this House is to make available a Swedish armed force consisting of a maximum of 470 people for the operation until 30 June 2019. The Government proposal shows that the Swedish Armed Forces and the Government are working to review the Swedish contribution and that any further contribution to the Mali operation beyond June 2019 would require a change in the direction of the Swedish operation. This has also been demonstrated by the presentations we have received in committee by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Defence. According to the Government, this work will be conducted in the light of the needs and demand that exist and also the Swedish ability to contribute. This is important. The committee therefore stresses in the report that a change in the Swedish contribution must be communicated in good time and to all interested parties. It is crucial that a change or closure of the Swedish effort does not come as a surprise to other actors. Another important message in this report is that the impact of the action on Sweden's ability to build national capabilities should be taken into account in that assessment. Madam President, I would like The Parliament has continuously raised the lack of access to Medevac in the UN operation and that the operation must therefore be adapted to the availability of helicopters with medical personnel. We have also been clear about the importance of clear objectives and an evaluation of the Swedish effort. The committee also stresses the importance of development cooperation and humanitarian aid to Mali. Minusma plays an important role in supporting Malian authorities in creating security for humanitarian transport. Finally, I would like to say that I am admiring and grateful to all the women and men who have served in past and ongoing efforts and to all those who will serve in the extended effort that we are debating today. It's about the military, the police and all the civilian personnel. I also have great admiration and gratitude for all the families who lend a family member to make the world safer for the rest of us. You're heroes, and we owe you a big thank you.
i-DkopG5W1TeDsGzF3kP253Z	Madam President, I would like Since autumn 2014, Sweden has been an active force participant in the UN peacekeeping operation in Mali. The proposal we are discussing today concerns Sweden's contribution one year in the future and refers to the eighth and ninth rotation to Minusma. Sweden has been there for almost three and a half years. This is a contribution that we are now going to take a position on, which includes 470 people, who are the ceiling on evacuation. But the Swedish contribution is proposed to continue to amount to approximately 320 people, of which 250 are the main grant covering a intelligence company – an ISR company, i.e. intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance. The remaining part consists of support staff such as technicians, engineers and health care resources which enable the main grant to operate. In view of the current situation, the Swedish Armed Forces have also reinforced the supercamp with more shelters and increased the protection of threats in the event of indirect fire. Furthermore, the alert radar will remain, and it will be a reinforced guard group. As you all know, the security situation in Mali is serious, especially for UN personnel. We have heard of several attacks, including the attack on the supercamp in Timbuktu on 14 April when a soldier from Burkina Faso was killed and another 14 soldiers injured. There were seven UN soldiers and seven French soldiers from Operation Barkhane. The Swedish unit is well trained and properly trained for its mission. It has shown exceptional leadership during and after all the attacks that have taken place in the area. The Swedish unit inspires trust among our international colleagues, and it is clear that we are not giving up. I would also like to take this opportunity to clarify the objectives of the operation. The overall objective of Sweden's force contribution to Minusma is to contribute to the fulfilment of Minusma's mandate under the Security Council Resolution, thereby contributing to improved security in Mali and long-term peace. Sweden shall contribute to stability in the field of operations. A concrete goal is for the Swedish unit to deliver requested intelligence products to Minusma's management to enable the fulfilment of Minusma's mandate and thus contribute with an increased understanding of the use of intelligence needs in UN military operations. Sweden will contribute to intelligence development at the UN as a whole. There are great needs. Sweden shall, where possible and with available resources, support units from other force support countries to strengthen their skills and thus have greater opportunities to contribute to Minusma's mission fulfilment and protection of civilians and themselves. Sweden shall, through participation in the operation, support and accelerate efforts to implement UN Security Council Resolution 1325 and subsequent resolutions on women, peace and security. The resolution's commitment shall permeate the operations of the Swedish unit, and Sweden shall ensure that all personnel in the Swedish contribution are trained and have knowledge in the practical application of Resolution 1325. Sweden's goal with participation in Minusma is for the Swedish Armed Forces to deepen their knowledge and experience of the UN's peace-promoting activities. When the opportunity arises, Sweden will be able to provide additional force contributions to the UN if the need for requested capabilities is available and help build the capacity for our national war units and staffs by creating opportunities to develop personnel through experience in an international environment. The Swedish unit's effort and goal fulfilment must be seen in its entirety, throughout the entire UN operation that is now being carried out. It is difficult to have national targets in international efforts. This must therefore be seen in its entirety and on the basis of it also evaluated in its entirety, much like when evaluating the Afghanistan operation. I do not believe that Parliament or the Government should specify objectives that are closer to the type of decision to be taken at a purely operational level. Setting such targets and measuring the impact of an international effort is complex. Sweden and the Swedish Armed Forces are not alone and work in a very dynamic environment. Nor should we believe that Sweden should be able to contribute with a solution to the situation. It is not realistic that we can do this ourselves. It is important to understand that the Swedish effort is a larger part of a broader context. Nevertheless, I would like to point out and emphasise once again that the Swedish unit is instilling confidence among our international colleagues. Almost a month ago, the Swedish transport operation FM 02 ended its operation in Minusma. FM 02 has been part of a Sami rotation with Norway and Denmark, together with Belgium and Portugal in support of Minusma. The contribution to transport is a good example of joint cooperation in a narrow sector. During its six months, the Swedish contribution has transported over 400 tonnes of cargo in all its forms: surgical medical teams, container loaders, Medevac, spare parts, coffins and 6,505 passengers. The Swedish unit grant is an important part of building the UN's competence in the field of intelligence. It is still a relatively new area for the UN. Few countries within the UN have the opportunity to participate with such advanced units as Sweden. Our contribution will therefore be very important for the whole of Minusma and the UN. The Swedish intelligence grant has the task of providing Minusma with qualified intelligence aimed at fulfilling the Security Council's mandate. I stress that we are developing the UN's intelligence capabilities, providing experience for other participating UN countries and sharing qualified intelligence. Our unit operates in a complex environment with many actors, in an extreme climate and in an area with inadequate infrastructure. This has brought important experiences for participating units and has helped to develop the ability. We have also improved our ability to act together with other countries and organisations. I would also like to comment on the future. The Swedish Armed Forces have responded in their referral to continue their participation in Minusma 2020 – 2022 that it recommends that the current force contribution with grouping in Timbuktu be phased out in November 2019. It wants to be able to reach the financial framework of SEK 450 million per year, which the government has set for a possible continued contribution in 2021. Much can happen in that period. It is difficult to be quite concrete at the moment. Clearly, we will not be able to continue with the ISR grant after 2019. Sweden and the Swedish Armed Forces have then participated in Minusma with very advanced ability for five years, which is something we should be proud of. This should be made in relation to the fact that the initial planning for Swedish participation was three rotations, which corresponds to 18 months. The Ministry of Defence and the Swedish Armed Forces will keep the committee and the Riksdag regularly informed about the way forward. We have the ambition to be early and clear. I think that the information I have given here now also includes that ambition in a very clear way. With regard to the peace process in Mali, I would like to emphasise that this is not the individual task of Sweden or the Armed Forces. We are there to fulfil Minusma's mandate under the Security Council resolution and to contribute to improved security in the country. Achieving final peace and stability is the task of the Malian State together with the parties that have signed the peace agreement. The UN is there to support it, not to solve it. The implementation of the peace agreement continued in 2017 in a way that we can call slow. The so-called transitional period expired in summer 2017 without a majority of the transitional measures included in the agreement having been implemented. This can partly be explained by ambitious timeframes, but also by the fact that the ability to agree on how to implement the peace agreement has not been the right one. So there is a need for continued UN action. International engagement remains important. And it is right that is said here; it requires more than the UN peacekeeping military operation. There we have a development cooperation where Sweden spends a total of 1.2 billion between 2016 and 2020. With regard to the Medevac capability, which has also been discussed here, I can only note that the activities carried out are adapted to the availability of helicopters. This means that if you are injured or affected in some way, you should be able to have so-called peer assistance after ten minutes. After one hour you should have qualified care, and after two hours you should be able to stand under surgical treatment. The question of helicopters has been raised repeatedly with the UN. No burden is spared in clarifying the UN's responsibility for helicopter resources. I have received many different explanations that it has not always been possible to live up to it. The information I have at the moment is that there is a ban on flying in the area. That is why we cannot be as effective as we want in this context at the moment. But the helicopter issue has been highlighted repeatedly and continuously. For over 60 years, the blue helmets have contributed to a more peaceful and safer world. I would like to thank the soldiers and officers who, with great professionalism and personal courage, have worked unconditionally to create security and stability. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the relatives who have supported our soldiers at home. Without their support, our efforts would not have been possible.
i-043e84698d2025b7-1238	Madam President, I would like I understood that, by repeating what is in the proposal and the report, the Minister for Defence tried to respond to my criticism that the objectives that exist are too comprehensive and lack concreteness. I maintain that the objectives – to contribute to the implementation of the resolution and to the sending of an intelligence unit – are absolutely excellent. They're pretty much obvious. But the question is: to what extent can these goals be achieved? The government does not want that to be specified on any single point. That's where my criticism lies. The Secretary of Defense says we'll have to look at the bigger picture. Then I almost get the feeling that we are going to do as with Afghanistan; we are going to investigate this when 13 years have passed and we are going home. But that's not good enough. We need to have a continuous follow-up if the government and parliament are to have any political influence over these operations – when they start, how they develop and how they end. Then the Minister for Defence says that we must be careful not to land at the operational level. But in the bill the government itself writes that it has formulated operational and even tactical goals for this effort. It seems the government is deep down in the military organization and rummaging around. Then there is this with the economy. It's interesting that the Secretary of Defense himself picks up that ball. Is it the case that the Swedish Armed Forces have small or limited financial possibilities to continue this, and is it related to the large savings that the Minister of Defence made at the beginning of the period in respect of appropriations 6:1:2?
i-043e84698d2025b7-1243	Madam President, I would like The objectives set out here are based on the Security Council resolution. International efforts can only be carried out on the basis of the basic mission of the client. I question the possibility of having national targets alongside the international objectives and requirements of the operation. When it comes to contributing to intelligence skills, you can of course produce data and data and evaluate efficiency – it may not be that big a deal. But I don't know what Widman's thinking in the end. If we start with tables, numbers and percentages, I think this will be very difficult. At the same time, Sweden's contribution is part of a very large effort with a total of 10 000 – 12 000 people. This must be put into the whole, and it cannot be mistaken to say that. I am just starting from the realities that are at stake here. I have no reason to enter purely operational parts. In fact, when Mr Widman mentions such things as the number of places to be visited in an operational area, I believe that this is an assessment that can be made at a purely operational level and not an objective that a parliament or a government should set itself. This is something on which the Swedish Armed Forces themselves have to decide. What is done is evaluated continuously, on a daily and weekly basis, in the practical work. It's no coincidence that the warning radar is there. This is because it has been recognised that it is needed because the security situation has become as it has become. The same is true of the fact that more shelters and other types of protective devices have been made. This is because of something, and then you make those efforts.
i-043e84698d2025b7-1248	Madam President, I would like It is good that the government has now been informed that the alert radar will remain after June 2018. The government writes in the bill that it will then be phased out. Now I have received information that it will remain at least until 31 December 2018. Then you'll see how it goes. The decisions made by the Swedish Armed Forces are very wise and responsible, so I fully support them. No, it is not the intention that we should have any parallel targets or targets other than those contained in the resolution on Minusma. What I think we should and must do, Madam President, is break down those goals into our own world and see how and to what extent we contribute. Are we effective enough? Is it going forward or backwards? How does the security situation develop? I mentioned this in itself with presence. The degree of presence in a very large area of operation, as we have in Mali, can of course be measured. The government itself writes that it should contribute with presence, and then it is also interesting to what extent we manage to attend and thereby also stabilize. I do not understand how the Minister really thinks in these parts. Again – at the beginning of this term of office, a major reduction was made in the allocation for international efforts. I ask the Minister for Defence: is this what is now preventing the continued presence in Mali of the extent that we have had in the past? Then I would like to say that the report on the ban on flying in the area is also a matter of deep concern to me.
i-043e84698d2025b7-1252	Madam President, I would like There was an assessment where we said that national defence should be given priority as number one. We would go from the line that the Armed Forces have a more expeditionary, international role to prioritising the national dimension and complementing this with various types of bilateral and multilateral agreements. This was not the same as the non-implementation of international operations. We are active in many places today. But there was a choice, and we spent money on other activities. I think we should say this clearly. I have nothing against evaluations, analyses or anything in this, as long as it is not the case that the parliament or the government has such a far-reaching flaw in the context that it leads to a problem in the conduct of operations or to some kind of over-control that also becomes a problem. I can understand that politicians want to be involved in regulating all the way down to the smallest bulk; there may be such a will at times. However, when designing evaluations and considering realistic objectives, I think we should consider the balance between the Swedish Armed Forces' assessments and the political assessments. What are realistic objectives based on the purpose of the operation and the objectives and decisions of the Security Council, and what are we adding? It is there that one can think about whether we really get the balance right. These are things to come back to, of course, but I do not see it as simple as Widman. You can walk away here so that you get into very mined fields and take on a task that becomes impossible to carry out. And finally– we can gladly evaluate, but it should be in a way that holds together in all parts.
i-043e84698d2025b7-1256	Madam President, I would like As a Swedish democrat, I welcome the ambitions to achieve an international, voluntary, intergovernmental framework within the framework of the OECD in dealing with tax evasion. I believe that this is the only way to achieve effectiveness in what it intends to achieve. The government proposal is an important step in this direction. Neither Sweden alone nor the EU can bring about a regulatory framework that counteracts tax evasion because the problem is international in nature. It is therefore reasonable to introduce the proposed limitation rules for interest rebates on the basis of the most commonly used international ebitda rule. It is also a prerequisite for achieving the objective of closing other forms of loopholes so that the tax base is not eroded in secret, for example in terms of interest rate costs' share of asset values, intra-group liabilities, leasing contracts and the possibility of rolling forward negative net income between companies. It is also a prerequisite that all the necessary legal definitions of interest are implemented, that the necessary chronological order is applied in the tax laws and that divisions between company forms are also implemented in order to benefit from this framework and that certain simplification rules are applied. However, there are some other proposals in the bill that give reason to consider how the government has actually thought. These include small businesses, but also proposals which do not directly relate to the main proposal, but seem to relate to quite different policy areas. Madam President, I would like We see and understand the good intentions that the government has had to use changed rules to get more rental housing built as part of trying to counter the problems in the housing market. It is positive that the government wants to try to solve the problems. However, one question that should be asked is why such a proposal has been made into a major and important corporate tax reform. That is my first objection. I think it undermines the importance of the issue when we proceed in this way. My second and most important objection is that, as long as there is neither a much more limited immigration policy nor a decision has been taken on the return of people without asylum grounds, as has been announced in the past, it is unlikely that new production of rental rights alone will be sufficient to solve the problem of housing shortages. Immigration policy has a far greater impact on housing policy on the demand side than this proposal affects the supply side. Why not solve the basic problem in advance rather than try to deal with the symptoms afterwards? Ma'am, ma'am! Furthermore, our view is that the flat-rate income on the deduction of provisioning to the accrual fund should not be increased and then taxed. The accrual funds are, of course, a method of shifting taxes between financial years. It seems here that the point of accrual funds has been completely missed at all. The cape has also been directed at insurance companies and the so-called security reserve. Profits incurred in a year can be considered as at least partially already committed for future losses. It is therefore reasonable that the company may set off untaxed earnings in a reserve that can be used to cover future losses in the insurance business. The Government also proposes a temporary limitation of deficit deductions for legal persons. This would mean a lack of clarity in taxation, with a clear departure from the principle that the company's performance is the basis for taxation. I do not want to see a profit tax that is not based on a positive result, i.e. a tax that could also burden a negative result. This would be unreasonable both financially and from the point of view of legal certainty. In view of this, the proposal should not be implemented. Finally, it is important to see how this type of change has a good socio-economic purpose while at the same time being able to have a drastic impact on some companies to a large extent. It is reasonable to give companies sufficient time to adjust their accounts on the basis of the new conditions. Some companies may have a variety of layouts on their balance sheets and profit and loss accounts that require them to phase out part of their finances in several steps. Therefore, the entry into force of the proposals should take place later. I support SD's reservation 1.
i-043e84698d2025b7-1266	Madam President, I would like It is extremely important that work within the EU to combat harmful tax competition continues. The Left Party is in favour of the work going on in both the OECD and the EU. We welcome the Business Committee's final report on reducing the tax differentials between own- and borrowed-capital financing. But this is also the only thing we are in favour of in the proposal. The government is delivering a watered-down proposal that will not lead to any major changes. Let me explain why. First of all, the deduction towards ebitda is far too high. The government proposes 30%. The Left Party wants it to be 25% because such a level would mean that 87 percent of the listed multinational groups that report positively ebitda could in principle deduct their external net interest costs entirely. Secondly, the Left Party believes that the threshold in the simplification rule is so high that it undermines the aim of the entire reform – the equalisation of own and borrowed capital and the avoidance of tax evasion. We consider an appropriate level of the limit to be SEK 100 000, instead of the government's proposal of SEK 5 million. An amount limit at that level would mean that around 75% of public limited liability companies would be able to apply the simplification rule and therefore not be subject to the general interest deduction limit. Finally, attention needs to be paid to corporate tax. Swedish corporate tax has been reduced in several steps over the last ten years. In 2009, it was reduced from 28% to 26.3 per cent, and in 2013 it was reduced to 22 per cent today. The Swedish corporation tax is therefore below the OECD average of 23.5 per cent. Now the government wants to lower it again, to 20.6%. It should be added that the Swedish depreciation rule is very favourable in an international perspective. It is simply easy to be an entrepreneur in Sweden today. The profits in the corporate sector are also high, and this has been so for a long time. Tax is to be paid because it ultimately falls to all of us and, with the right policies, to those who need it most. It also includes small businesses, entrepreneurs and people in precarious employment. Therefore, there is no point in reducing the corporate tax rate for companies that are doing well or giving different types of deductions to entrepreneurs who do not need it. I request the approval of reservation 2.
i-043e84698d2025b7-1272	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 3. Tax rules in the corporate sector are a large and complex catalogue of rules for a variety of situations. The proposal underlying today's report by the Committee on Taxation proposes a number of changes to important parts of these tax rules. Essentially, the proposals focus on the important work to combat tax evasion and the transfer of profits. It is a growing problem that has developed through too rapid and uninhibited globalisation. Multinational corporate structures have been built up into impenetrable conglomerates by companies that move profits between markets in order to avoid paying tax where profits arise. This development is responsible for many of the societal problems that are being reviewed worldwide. Therefore, in 2015, the G20 has commissioned the OECD, the Joint Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, to build a framework for relevant tax rules that can meet aggressive tax planning in a common and structured way on the international stage. Madam President, I would like This is an ambitious project that has been fairly rapid to develop, but where work on adapting the regulatory framework will continue for a long time. The work resulted in the so-called BEPS project, which aims to eliminate conditions that contribute to tax evasion and profit transfer. The OECD was at an early stage in creating a model for how countries should build agreements on reciprocal rules for the taxation of economic activities that move across the borders of two countries, so-called tax treaties. Today, this model is routine in bilateral agreement-making in countries in this area. The BEPS project defines a number of problems but also measures aimed at eliminating these problems. The method of dealing with the rule-making process to overcome the problems is the extension of the old tax agreements. The European Council has adopted a Council Directive laying down certain rules which essentially adhere to the principles laid down by the OECD BEPS. Among other things, it is a question of limiting, for example, the right to deduct interest incurred by multinational groups in order to move profits to a country other than where they arise in order to reduce tax costs in that country. In the bill, the government has eleven main proposals for action in this area. The proposals are presented with the support of, inter alia, the said EU Directive and with reference to the OECD BEPS project. In its measure 4, out of a total of 15, the OECD BEPS has identified certain interest rate arrangements and related measures as an indication of tax evasion. It is therefore proposed to introduce a limitation on the deduction of interest and other costs incurred in such cases. Madam President, I would like The EU Directive also provides for such measures targeting groups of companies with international branches. One problem in this context is the desire to access the transactions that are created to minimise tax payments, but at the same time not to hinder companies that have legitimate reasons to finance the access to external capital needed to build and develop their own business. Such funding must be possible to deal with in a serious way. The Directive also provides for openings to exempt certain situations that are fully legitimate and commercially relevant through their minimum levels of action. There are a number of difficult demarcation problems here that need to be addressed. Unfortunately, the government has chosen to put its proposal at an overall gross level that creates an insensitive regulatory framework and risks hampering growth, for example in areas with high investment requirements. The very idea of the measure is to reduce unfair shifting of profits between countries. This creates problems, which are due to the general application of the rules for all companies that hit serious companies or groups that have their business located in Sweden. The possibility of financing an operation with external money without being forced to thin out ownership of the company is a necessary prerequisite for many companies' ability to develop and conduct serious business. The government has fallen into the trap of considering all interest and financing costs as irregularities and attempts to evade tax. Nothing can be more wrong. A very wide range of consultation bodies point to the fact that this proposal is not sufficiently transparent on the basis of the different types of conditions that exist in different sectors. Capital-intensive activities will be severely disadvantaged by the proposed change and could have a serious negative impact on both public and private investment. Access to venture capital is a fundamental prerequisite for business development, which the Government's proposal jeopardises. Proposing such far-reaching limits on deductions for costs arising from the supply of capital risks having very serious consequences for many different companies. This is pointed out by a number of consultation bodies, which believe that the law should be subject to the minimum standards set by the directive. I share that view, at least initially. The objective of reducing tax evasion is necessary and important to meet. At the same time, however, we must not build systems that make ordinary serious financing activities impossible or more difficult. It should have taken advantage of the opportunities provided by the EU directive to set limits and make exceptions that make the regulatory framework meet the right type of business. Now the government is playing blindbock and is deteriorating the conditions for investments in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Interest and related costs can be anything from the attempts of rogue companies to evade tax through interest-rate spin and similar arrangements at serious costs for buying access to necessary working capital. Bringing everyone over, as the government does through this proposal, creates a wide range of inequalities and barriers that will have undesirable negative effects in different sectors. Examples that can easily be predicted are reduced housing construction, major problems for capital intensive industrial activities, reduced growth in both public and private investment and much more. Madam President, I would like Alternatives for Sweden propose that the Riksdag reject the proposal for a general limitation rule for interest rebates and that the Government should instead come back with a proposal for a deduction ban that addresses unwanted constructions that are not commercially justified. We also propose an amended limit in the proposed simplification rule for leasing charges, which will put companies leasing expensive production inventories at a disadvantage. The government seeks to mitigate the negative effects by compensating for a small reduction in corporate tax. But even this measure is too blunt and too small to be regarded as adequate compensation. It is sad that the government, due to its lack of understanding of the conditions of different industries, does not see the problems created by the bill. I believe that there is a need to identify risk arrangements and to build legal rules with a deduction ban that meets such an activity but also leaves sound business mechanisms to be. There must simply be sensitivity in legislation too, which means that we build a strong wall against irregularities and at the same time protect serious activities that are needed to strengthen Swedish competitiveness towards the outside world. It is also sad for Swedish companies that the alliance parties lie flat and do not manifest their divergent views in a reservation. They thus show, once again, that the December agreement is alive.
i-043e84698d2025b7-1289	Madam President, I would like Swedish companies are facing one of the biggest tax reforms in over 25 years. The reasons for this are, on the one hand, an EU directive requiring Member States to introduce interest deduction restrictions and anti-avoidance rules, and, on the other hand, to include in part the OECD recommendations on tax credit and profit transfer. It has been important for companies to know in good time what the new legislation means. The government's handling of the current legislation leaves a great deal to be desired on this issue with regard to the preparation and completion of proposals. Madam President, I would like During the lengthy process of developing the bill we are now discussing, the Center Party has had a clear view. In last autumn's budget exercise, we were already clear. We then made it clear that the reduction in interest rates should be 30%, and a tax-neutral effect on companies must be the starting point. The guiding principle in our view is that the competitiveness of Swedish companies should be safeguarded. The implementation of the directive must never result in our companies becoming less competitive vis-à-vis their competitors in other EU countries. The widest possible exclusion of small businesses is a matter of course for us. It is not for them that the EU directive is intended. Madam President, I would like We will decide on the new legislation in this House tomorrow. The new proposal will enter into force from 1 January 2019. The impact will need to be monitored and evaluated for a long time. This is, in many respects, a historic tax reform in terms of the degree of detail and thus the new conditions that companies have to deal with. The main objective of the new legislation is to further tighten the regulatory framework for interest rates. As far as interest rate spinners are concerned, the alliance government started a work and made changes. It is also a question of levelling out differences between own and borrowed capital in the new legislation and of preventing tax evasion. The vast majority of companies in Sweden are small companies. As many as 99.9% of all companies are small or medium-sized. These companies should not engage in various forms of advanced international tax planning. I have often stood here in the speaker's chair and pointed out that it is in small and medium-sized enterprises that jobs are created. Then they should be able to do just that – create jobs – and not have to engage in extensive bureaucracy. We note that the government has largely listened to the criticisms that have been made against the original proposal. It is positive that the government chooses to put forward a proposal that is in line with what applies in our neighbouring countries and that it ensures that much more small businesses are exempted from further regulation. As I mentioned at the outset, the impact of legislation will need to be assessed. There are some areas that we are particularly keen to review. It's about the housing supply. In Sweden, we are facing new challenges in the future, and according to forecasts, they are becoming larger. We are still concerned about the consequences of the government's proposals on the production of, in particular, rental housing. Reducing housing production is anything but desirable. Madam President, I would like During the term of office, the government has significantly increased the administrative costs of companies. When new tax rules are introduced, it is reasonable to review existing ones. The tax rules currently proposed affect companies differently, which is reasonable given that it is taxation of borrowed capital that is being dealt with. Corporate tax must be competitive in a European context not only in terms of the level of taxation but also in the manner in which corporation tax is levied. The impact of the proposed legislation differs for capital-intensive and non-capital-intensive sectors. Similarly, family-owned companies are at risk of having to review their activities, as they do not have the same opportunities as listed companies, for example, to level out the relationship between own and borrowed capital. It is therefore important to carefully evaluate the impact of the regulatory framework on these particular companies. Madam President, I would like These were some of the issues that still need to be reviewed and evaluated, but there are more. The basic principle of the Center Party is that when new rules are introduced old ones will be removed. Otherwise, we will not even be able to keep a halt in the rate of increase in the hassle. We have also proposed that regulatory simplification should include tax administration, as it is a large part of the administrative costs of companies. They have also increased in recent years. The World Bank's comparisons show that Swedish companies have a much larger scope for tax administration than companies in our neighbouring countries. It's not supposed to be like that. It takes a lot of effort here. Madam President, I would like We have a special opinion from the Center Party. I call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy 25.
i-043e84698d2025b7-1307	Madam President, I would like It's been a long trip. Today there is debate in this House, and tomorrow it is a decision. It has been a long journey to influence the proposals. The previous government decided on 13 January 2011 to convene a committee, which adopted the name of the Corporate Tax Committee, with the task of reviewing the taxation of companies. They made their proposal on 12 June 2014. It was then proposed to introduce a general restriction on the deduction of interest in the corporate sector in combination with a reduction in corporation tax. Then the journey continued. On 5 October 2015, the OECD made recommendations against tax base aeration and profit shifting in respect of interest deduction restrictions. The baton was then taken over by the EU. On 12 July 2016, the Council Directive laying down rules against tax avoidance practices that directly affect the functioning of the internal market was adopted. These have been important steps in the journey forward. Today we deliver things that are good for jobs and growth in both Sweden and the EU. It is, of course, a good thing to combat tax evasion and tax evasion. Following the OECD recommendations and the EU Directive, the Ministry of Finance developed the memorandum entitled New Tax Rules for the Business Sector. In the memorandum, two alternative proposals were made for the definition of a general interest reduction rule. After a consultation, the Government decided to send the following proposals to the Riksdag. Excessively favourable tax rules for interest rate deductions can lead to tax base erosion and profit shifting. In view of this, and in order to improve the fiscal neutrality between equity and borrowed capital and to allow for a broadening of the corporate tax base, the Government proposes a general limitation of interest reductions in the corporate sector. It shall be inserted into one of the forms referred to. It's called the ebitda rule. It is operating profit before interest, tax, depreciation and depreciation. The proposal means that the margin for deduction amounts to 30% of ebitda. This is combined with a reduction in corporate tax and the expansion fund tax from 22% to 20%. Thus, corporation tax is reduced in our country. However, for public financial reasons, the corporate tax rate in the first two years will be 21.4%. A simplification rule is proposed whereby a negative net interest income may be deducted from up to SEK 5 million. Such a deduction may be made instead of a deduction of 30 % of the deduction base under the ebitda rule. Differences in national legislation with regard to the tax treatment of both companies and financial instruments allow taxpayers, in particular associated companies with companies in other countries, to use cross-border tax planning to escape tax. In international cooperation through the OECD, we make sure to neutralize some of the various tax effects. The introduction of general rules that limit the deduction of interest also leads to the need to define the terms ‘interest expenses' and ‘interest income'. This is also the case in this proposal. Rules are introduced to treat the interest part of the lease fee for financial leasing tax purposes as an interest expense. The most recent discussion in the debate has been that it will affect companies investing in residential buildings. The government has listened to the proposals. Now there are rules on depreciation of rental buildings so that it does not affect new production. Madam President, I would like It's been a long trip. Tomorrow we'll make decisions. On 1 January 2019 we have a new corporate tax system in place.
i-043e84698d2025b7-1316	Madam President, I would like Swedish companies are facing one of the biggest corporate tax changes in over 25 years. Unfortunately, companies have been left uncertain about the changes to very central corporate tax rules over several years. Former speakers, Social Democrats Jörgen Hellman, call it a long journey. We from the Alliance call it a far too long and unnecessarily long journey. The Government has not given priority to Swedish companies' need for long-term vision, clarity and clarity. This has happened despite many reminders from Parliament's chambers, from Swedish companies and from the business community. The current tax system favours loans over equity through rules on interest rebates. As a result, companies borrow more than they would otherwise have done, increasing the vulnerability of the economy. In order to reduce tension, equal treatment between borrowed capital and equity should be increased in terms of taxation. The Moderates, together with the other alliance parties, started this work already during the year of the alliance government by setting up a parliamentary inquiry to safeguard the long-term and predictable tax rules for Swedish companies. The Business Taxation Committee was set up with the need to reform some of the company tax rules. The reform needs to be cost neutral in order to reduce the negative effects and to safeguard Swedish competitiveness. It was very clear then, and it's just as pronounced now. Madam President, I would like We want to build Sweden stronger by further strengthening competitiveness. Our starting point has been to strengthen competitiveness and not to let Sweden slip behind towards the outside world, towards the near surroundings or further from. Sweden is a small, highly export-dependent country where Swedish companies must be able to shop and make it competitive every day, all year round. Companies and entrepreneurs are the basis for both jobs, growth and well-being throughout our country. We have therefore advocated that the rules drawn up should be as similar as possible to those of our neighbours and other EU countries, for example as regards the margin for deduction, together with the simplification rules that allow companies with a negative net interest rate to be exempted. Our position differed significantly from the proposal presented by the government as late as last summer and in the beginning of autumn and which was then referred to. It was absolutely crucial even then – and it is still – to lower corporate tax to enable a reduction in the impact on companies affected by the new rules and to continue to strengthen Swedish competitiveness in the long term. A cost-neutral reform for companies is about reducing corporate tax in several steps. This journey begins now, and we welcome it. But it must also continue. The reform as a whole needs to be cost neutral. There is now concern that the reform is over-financed. It is all about reducing the negative effects and protecting Swedish competitiveness. The new tax rules will lower the tax for some and increase it for others. The impact on companies affected will be less in the event of a greater reduction in corporate tax. It is clear that we would have liked to see such a greater reduction already now. A reduction is important in several steps. Against this background, it is unfortunate that the government does not really give full priority to this long-term approach and competitive conditions for Swedish companies. We know that we are at the end of a rather long boom, and we know that we are soon entering a business cycle that will become tougher for Swedish companies when competitiveness is really put at risk. It is therefore absolutely necessary to continue to strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish companies. Madam President, I would like In parallel with taking important steps to prevent international tax planning, several different steps have been taken, not least at European level. This work has resulted in Sweden having at the same time an obligation to implement EU directives aimed at preventing tax evasion. More precisely, the EU Directive contains rules to discourage international tax planning through the use of interest rebates. Implementation remains and has been included in the Government's proposal as part of the changed corporate tax rules. Madam President, I would like It is positive that the government is choosing a solution that is in line with that of neighbouring countries and that it is seen that there are considerably more small businesses that will be exempted from the regulations. Unfortunately, however, the slowness of the government means that companies are not given sufficient time to adapt to the new rules. We are therefore still critical of the delay in the proposal, the fact that the journey has been far too long and that businesses must now adapt in a very short time. If the government had previously submitted proposals to the Riksdag and if the government had previously made contact with the alliance parties, this would obviously have gone much more smoothly. This also applies to the implementation that now remains. Now, Madam President, it is important to continue to monitor the consequences of this, to monitor developments and to monitor them closely. This is crucial for Swedish competitiveness. Therefore, together with the alliance parties, we Moderates will give priority to continuing to monitor these consequences.
i-043e84698d2025b7-1330	Madam President, I would like It is four years since the investigation came to form the basis of the bill. The investigation was thus set up by the former alliance government, and its proposals were handed over to the summer of 2014. This is basically based on an EU directive. We have had very generous rules in Sweden for companies that have been able to deduct interest. With the matter that will now be put on the table, it will be less generous than it has been in the past. I can admit that I myself did not know all the concepts when the investigation came – ebit and ebitda. There are certainly more people in the Committee on Taxation who have learned something, because the matter is not simple in all its parts. But basically it's about getting to grips with a couple of things. It is partly a question of tax planning that has existed and which, not least, the work of the OECD's BEPS has been designed to counteract. It is also an important thing to balance the terms between borrowed and equity; not least, it is important in principle. In the long run, the risks in the economy can also be reduced when we make borrowing less advantageous. One can assume that the loans will be smaller when it becomes less advantageous. This can be described as making things worse, but it can also be described as simply being more equal. That is a more positive description. The great advantage of the case is that we also have the opportunity to reduce corporate tax from 22 to 20.6%. Since there is a restriction rule which is still quite large and which allows most companies to be totally excluded from the negative side, this means that the majority of companies receive a reduction in corporate taxation. This is good news, not least for many of the very small companies. Madam President, I would like I noted that at the beginning of the debate the Left Party representative was up with rather mockery against Sweden's small businessmen. It was described how simple it was, how big the profits were and the like. I find it quite spectacular that you go up and say it, but then you do not even stop during the debate and take part in it. With this, Madam President, I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-043e84698d2025b7-1337	Madam President, I would like On the Liberal side, we have a special opinion in the report, because we respect the budgetary process that we have agreed between a number of the serious parties here in the Swedish Parliament. As my colleagues have said, the matter itself deals with company taxation and the new rules on interest rebates. The proposal we now have on the table is much better than the very first proposal we saw from the government. It has become more similar during the process and the long journey to the rules of other countries, as we in the Alliance have argued it should be. The deductions are up to 30 percent, for example. With regard to this with cost neutrality, the focus of the Social Democrats and the government has been on the system being cost neutral. For Gud forbid you accidentally lower a treasure a little-- that wouldn't be good! But we from the Liberals and the Alliance have no problem reducing the tax burden. The risk of not lowering corporate tax is that taxes will be increased slightly, but we will see that in the future. Instead, from the Liberals' side, we see that the focus should be on reducing the tax burden on companies that have had a higher tax burden during this last term of office and that we need not be afraid of making it a little cheaper to run companies in this country. I would like to raise the finger of caution on this issue of housing construction. It is compensated in the proposal that we have, and we must certainly hope that it will last, but it is important to keep both eyes on it so that it does not have negative effects on housing construction. It is definitely in the direction of danger. We have a rapid digitalization of the world with exponential growth, and when Sweden's most important law is named Moore's law, it is important not to burden companies with any unnecessary taxes or unnecessary regulatory hassle. We will work on this if we win the election together with our comrades in the Alliance. Madam President, I would like Since I am not running for re-election, this is my last speech from the Parliament's pulpit. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank you. Then it's not possible, even if the hour is late, not to get a little nostalgic. When I think back, it's the occasions with the least glamour and least pomp and glory that I actually remember most. One example is when I jumped on the bus to Valdemarsvik on a cold, slushy and grey January evening, where the local party association invited the public. You know how it is – someone made coffee and someone brought home-baked cake. There were four people, of whom I was one. One of the others was almost completely senile. I remember these occasions most of all because they have somehow been the best. Democracy can be the incredibly magnificent opening that we have here when we start the Parliamentary Session, but even more so, democracy is an eternal and unlucky work that goes on every night, every weekend, every week, every year – year in and year out. It is all the small efforts that together make our democracy actually work. I think that is very, very beautiful. Having served in the highest decision-making assembly in our Swedish democracy I am very grateful for. I would therefore like to thank the voters, of course, in Östergötland for giving me this confidence, but of course also the members of the party who thought that I was best placed to represent them here. Even if I leave politics of my own free will, I will miss it. Having been elected as a member of the Swedish Parliament will always be the finest assignment I have ever had in my life.
i-043e84698d2025b7-1348	Madam President, I would like Tax rules can be considered in a broad perspective and in a narrow perspective. The narrow perspective is precisely in the bill that is on the table. It means, in my view, a harmonisation of interest-rate deduction rules in Europe, which I believe is good for Swedish companies in the long term. As much as possible of rules as in the rest of Europe benefit our competitive situation because we have strong companies that are good at what they do. The services or products they produce are good at. The more our rules are similar to those in Europe, the more it will benefit Swedish companies. But I also believe that more steps must be taken to remove other parts of the tax legislation that disadvantage Swedish companies. I hope it will come in the next parliamentary term. Many have said that this proposal, which is now on the table, is much better than what it was originally. I agree with that, but I also think it is very late and that it is difficult for companies to adapt. It's obvious. Part of the proposal that is good is to reduce corporate tax to eventually 20.6%. However, I find it difficult to see in the proposal whether it is cost neutral or whether, as usual, there is an increased tax burden on companies. We as a party would have liked to see corporate tax reduced slightly more to ensure that the tax burden does not actually increase for companies. But now it is the proposal of 20.6% as before, and we are behind the proposal. On the other hand, I believe that with the decision tomorrow, individual sectors may face greater problems. The sectors that are investment-intensive, such as the real estate sector, will be hit quite hard. This bill will contribute to a reduction in housing construction in Sweden. That is my complete conviction. This is happening in a situation where we as a nation would need to build more homes. We are already seeing that the number of homes being built is falling because the alliance government's package of measures has not been maintained by the current government. It is bad for Sweden and unfortunate for all those who want to change accommodation or get their first accommodation. There have not been any real reforms in this area, which is regrettable. Tax rules can also be seen in a broader perspective. The government has had the chance to change what does not work in the 3:12 regulations that exist today, but unfortunately it has not managed to put any proposal on Parliament's table. I am thinking mainly of the part that makes it difficult for companies to change their generations. We all agree in the parties that we must facilitate and ensure that generation companies can live on more easily. Yet no proposal has come to Parliament's table. The 3:12 rules should also be modernised from the SME perspective, and it should make it easier for the individual entrepreneur to see the consequences of the rules. Perhaps the simplification rule should be developed so that it can be used on more entrepreneurs than just a few. But this term of office makes the government the answer, because there was no proposal at all in relation to the 3:12 rules. The government has also failed to present a proposal in which we reduce or better manage representative responsibility, so that the entrepreneur can take reasonable risks and our authorities do not become the ax that convicts companies. Of course you should be at risk if you start a business, but it should be reasonable. Sometimes it feels like arbitrariness instead of frameworks and rules governs, which is legally insecure. Responsibilities should be used when people are grossly careless and obviously do not want to do the right thing. Otherwise, we as a state should see the possibilities of companies. The government has also failed to make regulatory simplifications for entrepreneurs so mildly that it completely ignores the Rule Council. The next mandate should focus on removing complicated and unnecessary rules, but also on simplifying the remaining rules. During this term of office, I argue that it has become difficult to run companies in Sweden. This has happened at a time when we need more entrepreneurs than ever. In addition, the government has gone after the industry that contains the most female entrepreneurs, namely the welfare sector, and has tried to impose a profit ban. It would have been a death blow to welfare companies if it had been implemented. The government should make it easier for small businesses to retain important staff for the development of the company by allowing more to be exempted from the rotation rules. It must be reasonable that when fighting to reverse negative developments for the company, it should be possible to retain the staff that is important for that particular change. There, too, we have not seen any proposal. The government has failed to make a real tax shift in the form of taxing what we do not want any more and spending the money it receives on reducing employers' contributions. Bringing down the cost of hiring staff is an important building block for a good business community in the future. Without the companies, we lose a lot of tax revenue to the state. It should be purely self-preservation to favour the part that is important for tax revenue, i.e. companies. I think I see more of a tendency to want to nail the entrepreneur and make sure that the entrepreneur in all parts does everything according to the book regardless of the situation instead of seeing the entrepreneur as it is. It is the entrepreneurs who give us the opportunity to raise tax revenue. They are the ones who together with their employees create services and products that are attractive and can be sold and through it generate tax to the Treasury. Facilitating, removing regulatory problems and showing a little faith in the entrepreneur would be the least you should ask for. But to get it, we might have to change the government. It is a pity that not everyone is in the Chamber, but I would like to point out that my sadness remains that the government has not managed to remove the pensioner's tax. I hope that we can do so during the next parliamentary term.
