i-5077579284a4ec5c-0	Madam President, I would like Sometimes it is difficult to see the forest for all trees and trees. It means that if you have too much focus on the parts you miss seeing the whole. Let me therefore first say a few words about the whole and direction of the government's proposal on upper secondary school. Full, high-quality upper secondary education is today an important and necessary basis for young people's entry into the labour market. This is also the reason why the government has now proposed important changes in the upper secondary school in two proposals. The first proposal we are discussing today is about better transitions to upper secondary school, more developed support for students, clearer responsibility for vice-chancellors to follow up on absenteeism and improvements in the structure and quality of the introduction programmes, including requirements for guaranteed minimum teaching time. The second proposal, which we will deal with later, proposes that professional programmes should also give basic competence as the norm, without reducing the proportion of professional subjects. It also proposes to include an aesthetic subject in all programmes. To this will be added the Government's decision to set up two important studies: on the one hand, an investigation to review the possibilities of re-establishing subject grades in upper secondary school, and on the other hand, an investigation to review the possibilities for regionalisation of upper secondary education in order to ensure a wide range of high-quality education courses throughout the country. In this way, we want to develop future upper secondary education and create a high school for all. Madam President, I would like I joined the Riksdag in 2007. At that time, Jan Björklund had just thrown the proposal of the previous government Gy 2007 into the trash can. A lot of time, power and money had been invested in the investigation and the bill. It felt like some sort of prestige from the then minister to throw that work away and appoint his own investigator. The bill came four years later, Gy 2011. Nevertheless, it contained some of the suggestions that had been made earlier. A lot was good, but a few things didn't work out so well. The division between higher education and vocational programmes became too strong, and the attractiveness of professional programmes was dismantled. As a result, the number of applicants for vocational programmes decreased significantly. The introduction programs got bigger. When Björklund began to worry about the low search pressure, he appointed the Vocational Programme Investigation. We Social Democrats went to elections to preserve what worked well in the new high school and to do again what clearly did not work. We therefore made choices to strengthen the attractiveness of vocational programmes and to get more pupils to choose vocational education and training, as well as to have the support measures available in comprehensive school also in upper secondary school. We went to elections for much-needed reforms for high school and the country's students. But we also made a choice not to throw anything in the trash. The school needs long-term conditions. This is why we continued the Vocational Programme investigation, which has resulted in, among other things, the setting up of industry schools in Sweden this autumn for narrow professional areas that are needed in the labour market. We also set up a large and extensive upper secondary school inquiry to review the overall picture. Since we did not want to risk having to start over on square one again, it was a parliamentary investigation in which all parliamentary parties were present. All parties had the opportunity to influence the investigation and put forward their political proposals. There was a time for negotiations between the parties, and that was the case. That is why, with some exception, the proposal we are debating today seems to be going through. Madam President, I would like I was talking about direction at the outset. The point must be that everyone should get a high school education. This does not mean that everyone should become an academic or that everyone should take their upper secondary school degree in the same way and at the same time. We will create the conditions for everyone to be able to complete upper secondary education – in different ways, more individually and perhaps in different stages. But let us be honest and say: all young people will need upper secondary education in order to survive in today's and the future's knowledge-intensive society. For four years now, the government has therefore invested heavily in the possibility of training and reassignment. We have broken with the cuts in komvux and established a right to komvux. The right to attend adult education and training in order to move on to YH and higher education is important. It creates opportunities and something to be proud of. We have also set up a Comvux investigation, which is, among other things, tasked with reviewing whether current priorities continue to apply. Should we, for example, be able to train more people who have taken a higher education programme to a profession? We know that we need more nurses, nannys, welders and vvs fitters and so on. It is professions that need to attract more people who have previously set their sights on something else. We have invested heavily in regional professional practice, and buildable professional packages have been developed in collaboration with the industries according to the Swedish model. They can be used in professional adults but also in introductory programmes. This enables better education offering, higher quality education and that new arrivals coming to Sweden can be given tailor-made training courses that lead to jobs in shortage jobs. Madam President, I would like Today's report is mainly about more people being given the opportunity and support to complete their upper secondary education. According to the Swedish National Agency for Education, more than half of those who do not graduate have only a few courses left to complete their education. So they're close to graduation. Many of them would graduate if they received support. This bill means that such opportunities now come into place. The structure and quality of the introduction programmes are also improving, which is necessary. The Government's efforts at holiday school and 300 million annually to strengthen the introduction programmes are also important in this context. What the bourgeoisie, together with the Swedish Democrats today, somewhat squarely rejects is that students on introductory programmes who are judged to have completed their studies on a higher education programme can be exempted from certain eligibility requirements. That is what we want to reject. Our proposal is a way of trying to see each individual and make education more flexible. Sometimes it's so close. I heard about Ahmed going on an introduction program in Sörmland. He is incredibly good at school and has gained competence in nuclear materials and in eight other subjects. One subject is missing, namely sport and health. There he won't pass, because he hasn't learned how to swim 200 meters. We need to be able to bring in students' gifted and ambitious young people who teachers and principals judge pass the teaching on national programmes. We must be able to do so even when it comes to pupils born outside Sweden. We do not want to lower any knowledge requirements, but we want to see individual solutions in certain situations and greater flexibility. I have to apologize. I will now go over the speaking time and say a few more words. The second proposal, which I have mentioned before, is being debated here on 19 June. In particular, professional programmes should not be seen as dead ends. It is also about a quarter of a billion in the budget for municipalities and independent schools to be able to implement the success concept, which several testify to. I still hope that reason takes precedence over prestige and that some kind of long-termness and decency are present in high school politics. That is why I would like to call on all parties in the Swedish Parliament: at least be pragmatic, and do not once again throw a good piece of work into the trash basket! Sweden's students and teachers don't have time to get back on square one just because we can't get along. The skills shortage is here and now, and we have to do everything we can to solve it. I am in favour of reservation 1, and otherwise I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-18	Madam President, I would like At Parliament's table, after usual treatment, there has been a little exciting proposal for an upper secondary school education for all. The government has soon had four years to come up with proposals for a stronger presence, for fewer drop-outs and for more people to be able to graduate with an important degree from school – and that was the case. As I read the bill, my thoughts go unsearched to Shakespeare's play Much Ado about Nothing. Rarely have I seen such a watered-down proposal. The aim of the bill is for all young people to start and complete upper secondary education. Yes, the aim is good, but the solid proposals are lacking. I also believe that the government side agrees, in the quiet. Today, the problems are widespread in the country's upper secondary schools. The students are fooled in a number of hours. The government should have re-linked the course points to the number of hours. We have far too few teaching hours in Swedish school. It is lack of teachers and cancelled lessons, and often the municipalities save into substitutes. After Sweden's curve in PISA pointed upwards, we now see worrying trends in the decline of the results. It is very serious, and the government is in a state of hands. It is good that the government is concerned about the absence, but that is not enough. We need to know more, investigate and collect statistics, as in all other workplaces. We need more immediate intervention by the school management. What we support is reviewing and strengthening the introduction programmes. They have swelled, not least the language program. It is good that language skills are now also assessed, so that it is possible to divide students at the right levels so that they get more out of the teaching. Madam President, I would like I think that the situation is very worrying for many of our upper secondary schools and therefore for our students. There are three serious problems. The first is all wrong and re-election. They cost the community SEK 2.3 billion each year – I come back to this. The second is the drop-out from upper secondary school or leaving without an adequate degree. Socio-economic calculations show that every failure puts about SEK 15 to 20 million on the national economy over a life cycle per individual. It'll be huge sums of money. The third is that colleges and universities complain loudly about the lack of quality, that students can too little and that they can retake upper secondary courses and organise a base year, not least in the field of technology. Madam President, I would like The proposal for an inclusive upper secondary school education would address the problems of unprepared and uninformed pupils, major skills gaps among study and career counselors and scoring – often in grade 2 – which all too often lead to mental ill health among alarmingly many girls. There are few things I see in the proposal. Mentors are included, but they already exist in the vast majority of schools, and I think that is unnecessary detailed regulation. There are all the more things that should have been included. I understand that not everything can be contained in a bill, but the government has now had four years to correct the problems and things that were critical of during the last parliamentary term. But they fail to do so. We need to get a more flexible high school. The famous 100 days of the Minister of Education have soon reached 1,500 days. Sweden's students are worth a more active government that tackles the school's major problems. I request the approval of reservation 4. Madam President, I would like This is probably my last speech in this House, after eight years, so I would like to thank all my nice colleagues in the committee, from left to right.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-31	Madam President, I would like It is sad to see that a good debater has to finish his career here, but we are moving on. The Swedish Democrats, of course, are in favour of their reservations 3 and 5. Madam President, I would like I'm going to reconnect to reservation number one that shows up here. It is about introductory students who are deemed to lack one or two grades to be approved to enter an education. We say no to that, and the Alliance says no to that. I'm very grateful for that, because this is a sloping plane. Should we really have 35 000 different assessments – there are so many teachers today in upper secondary education? Is it every single teacher who should be able to assess whether a grade is needed or not? No, Madam President, Sweden should not lower its requirements. Rather, we should raise the demands of the students who come out. I will come back to why it is so important to raise the standards. Our reservation 3, which we support, is about the municipality getting an activity responsibility. You're supposed to more or less dyke with grown people. These are individuals who have turned 20 or more. When does responsibility disappear, and when should one take responsibility? According to the Swedish Democrats, it is time for adults to take responsibility for their own education and actually make sure to activate themselves. It's not supposed to be the municipality's responsibility. There is also an announcement of written judgments, Madam President, which is squalid in the middle of the text. It is an announcement that we have made, Madam President, together with the Alliance. This is incredibly important for future employment. Because if something is important when students come out on their first job, it is precisely that you know how they do their current job in education. This is very important for employers to find out. I really hope it will go through in the future. Madam President, I would like Reservation No 5, which we support, concerns the introduction of a time limit for the completion of the introduction programmes. The Swedish Democrats want that. The government doesn't want that. You think this should get laid and roll for as long as you want. The answer is no. We must ensure that this is structured. There must be some kind of time limit for the introduction programmes. There should be no area of relief for a poorly conducted immigration policy – this too. Madam President, I would like Previous speakers raised this point. I think it is incredibly important that we link the training with what the employment should require for something. And to reconnect with my previous speech here, I'll say that I think it's very important that business and reality are connected with school. Unfortunately, we have already begun to reduce this in terms of primary school levels. There we have removed the internship and the opportunity for students to get out in and get in touch with reality. This is incredibly important. The majority of us sitting in here, Madam President, have made a visit to Switzerland. There we really saw how to go in and help and support education – higher education and also upper secondary level. You steered up. What do these students need to know? Somewhere we need to get a red thread throughout our systems, not just through the education system. It is a question of the education system being adapted to the requirements of reality. We cannot have people who train themselves in what they think is fun and who then come out in an extremely large unemployment. There are large groups in society that require a great many people, but we have no education in those areas. This is where we have to put the system together. The Swedish democrats have since early proposed subject ratings. It's a question that's been there for a very long time. It was one of the most important issues we took with us in the Gymnasie investigation, which I think, Madam President, is a good way of working. To sit down together and discuss major and important points must be more important to us politicians than small and forward proposals back and forth. The only thing our fellow teachers and those who work in the school previously want is long-termness and nothing else. That's what's important. Madam President, I would like With that, I'm happy for this time.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-42	Madam President, I would like Formation and education are two of the cornerstones of a person's life. The basis for most is a completed upper secondary school education. We know that those students are deepening their knowledge. It is knowledge that is needed to move on in life to work and to higher education. Therefore, it is an important goal for school to enable all young people to start, complete and complete their upper secondary education. That is exactly what the debate is about today: a high school education for all. Every human being is unique. This places special demands on the school but also on the individual. The training is a form of communication with one sender and one or more recipients. Then it's a matter of transmitting on the right frequency. Most of the time and most of them it's simple, but for some it's not. That's when the school and the student are put to the test. It is important to find a solution that makes teaching work for these students as well. In upper secondary school, we need to introduce provisions exempting pupils, for example, from some of the eligibility requirements for higher education programmes aimed at increasing access to upper secondary school. It provides better conditions for the school to work with the students' motivation to continue reading. The Swedish School Inspectorate's review of the 2017 language introduction shows that there is widespread stress among students that they will get too old to start the national upper secondary school programme but that an exception to certain eligibility requirements can motivate students because the possibility of starting a national programme may be perceived as achievable for students. The path to completion of upper secondary education or equivalent may take different forms. For some pupils, municipal adult education or folk high school will be the most appropriate form of education. For others, the more coherent education on programmes offered by upper secondary school will be a better option. Some students may also have studied a large part of the education on the introduction programmes integrated with a national programme and already received grades in several upper secondary courses. For these students it is likely to be about a transition to a national programme rather than starting the programme from year 1. In order to ensure that students choose the path that gives them the best opportunity to complete their education, it is important that the school informs and guides all students about all the different paths of study that exist prior to the choice of further education. It is important to create flexible ways of becoming eligible for a national programme so that more young people have the opportunity to obtain a secondary school degree. Madam President, I would like Supporting and guiding each individual student through the school is one of the most important factors that will give him a degree. We'll do everything we can to make it happen. I am in favour of reservation 1 and otherwise of the committee's proposal in the report.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-50	Madam President, I would like When you look out the window and see how the sun shines and feels the warmth, you also know that now is soon the time for students. It's the student song Singing about the student's happy day. Mice taking has already taken place in Stockholm, which is a tradition that is not really at home with me, where you wait for student day. But it's a little nice with different forms of traditions. It's about a lot of joy and lust. Now the time for high school is over, and you have the opportunity to go out in life. To get the opportunity to take a high school degree while there is a fantastic boom, there are plenty of jobs and there are plenty of training places is a favor that I think many young people feel a lot of confidence with. Still, there are a large number of youths who do not feel the same joy at all. They may not have bought a hat for various reasons. They are in a high school that does not provide the support it should provide. They struggle year in and year out with different parts of the courses that they do not reach the goals in. Madam President, I would like To handle today a bill called A high school for everyone but which unfortunately has such thin content feels a bit boring. I can understand that Caroline Helmersson Olsson spent at least six and a half minutes of her opening speech talking about other things that are important in terms of upper secondary school than the very report we have on the table today. It would be a little fun if we could still discuss more of those forms and the differences in the proposals that we highlight in the debate. It may be a little strange that the proposals we are debating today took four years to come up with. The Minister for Education, who is not responsible for upper secondary school itself, nevertheless said that it would reverse developments in 100 days. It may be that the change of High School Minister in the middle of his term of office and perhaps a long start for the current Minister made it take some time. If we look at the law, for example, it is about guaranteed teaching time on the introduction programs. Of course, it has worried us all when we have seen that it has been able to distinguish between 13 and 25 hours. It is clear that with 13 hours a week it is no wonder if you feel a stress about not reaching the goals and the knowledge requirements that exist. That is why it is so important in the proposal supported by the Center Party and the Alliance as a whole that we maintain the quality of these issues and do not fall to make various forms of exception. In what was exemplified it seems so incredibly obvious. But we know that there are very many different examples of positions where it will not at all be as obvious as when it comes to being able to learn how to swim. Another issue that is important and which I do not quite understand why the majority of the Committee on Education does not want to endorse what the alliance parties are highlighting is about increased responsibility for investigating both valid and invalid absenteeism. That question is also far from new. The invalid absence, the long absence – the students we sometimes call home sitters – is a problem we have known since the 80s and in different ways tried to address. The high school inquiry was completed in 2016, and three studies form the basis of this report, which also deals with the absence. It is surprising that it comes first now and that, moreover, it is only about investigating absenteeism and not as the Alliance proposes to have a plan of action to take it one step further. I can make the list longer, but I'll stay there. The difference between 13 and 25 hours for what is considered a full - time study sounds strange. Following up on the guaranteed period of teaching is a matter of course. Both government representatives have already spoken here in the debate, so I do not expect another comment or reply. But I hope so. You also have to talk about what is good. The proposal contained in the bill is that 23 hours should be the guaranteed teaching time. It will provide completely different conditions than for those students who today have 13 hours a week. Another thing that is also an important part of the bill and which deserves to be highlighted is even more about programme-oriented choices. When I look at that part, I think it's going to be an important part that we're going to highlight. It can increase motivation and the possibility of getting into the national programme. With regard to both the preparatory programmes and the vocational programmes, we see the possibility of shortening that path. Other parts that are good are about support provisions that should apply in relation to requirements levels that exist in upper secondary school. In this context, I would like to ask a question on a subject in which the whole committee is involved, namely the possibility for young people who have attended secondary school for further studies. I know that representatives of the government parties are pushing this issue hard. A third good thing in the bill is the importance of students having the right to complete the education on an introduction programme based on both an educational plan and an individual plan if you, for example, move to another municipality. That's another good thing. There are also unnecessary parts of the bill. It is about mentors, for example. The various consultation bodies have pointed out that mentors exist in upper secondary school today, and regulation would make it difficult for the vice-chancellor to put up work with all those who work in school as well as possible. We tend to highlight the importance of the Vice-Chancellor's clear leadership and that the instruments needed are available. The committee's current majority highlights the problem that too many pupils do not complete upper secondary school. There are, of course, many different reasons. It is a pity that the bill only takes up a few parts and does not become part of a larger whole, although Caroline Helmersson Olsson talked about that there will be more. Absence is part of the problem and, in the long term, it can lead to exclusion from the labour market, increased mental illness or exclusion. In this context, I would like to highlight the Alliance's proposal for a two-year vocational school. It is about shortening the way to work, that the work should be within reach. At the age of 16 to 17, five or six years at upper secondary school feel like an extremely long time. First one should pass an introduction programme, then a program-oriented choice to eventually end up in a national programme. Then there should also be shorter roads. Caroline Helmersson Olsson himself said that not everyone should become an academic. There is an opportunity to invest in professional subjects, which of course should be buildable in different ways in order to become eligible for university of applied sciences as well as to universities and colleges. But people are different. Having only one broad road to run on or to offer different opportunities is an important issue. I have already mentioned that the Alliance wants to go further with regard to absenteeism. It is not enough to investigate, but there should be a plan for how the absence should be addressed. Madam President, I would like I see that I have exceeded my registered speaking time, and I therefore conclude by calling for the approval of reservation 4.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-69	Madam President, I would like I wanted to be brief because we will have another debate on elements that have been mentioned earlier from the speaker's chair, such as eligibility for further studies for upper secondary programmes, aesthetic subjects in upper secondary programmes and some other important issues. I was going to leave them there and go into what the report is actually about. Before I forget, I would like to thank Michael Svensson for his good talks over the years and good debates. I believe, like the School Inspectorate and the High School Investigation, that mentoring today is already an established function in upper secondary school. The school inspectorate's experience shows that the mentor has a key role to play in schools and that there is a risk that the mentor may take a major responsibility for the pupils' opportunities to receive special support. At the same time, many mentors feel that their role is difficult and unclear. I therefore believe, like the School Inspectorate, that it is important to clarify how the responsibilities and tasks of the mentors relate to, for example, the responsibilities of the principals and other teachers. I also think it is unclear what the mentoring role should contain. Do we really agree on what it should contain? What competence should be required to become a mentor? In my opinion, it should also be stressed that the mentor should have a clear link with the students' study situation. Unfortunately, the proposal for new legislation has not been drafted. The Government believes that a mentor does not necessarily have to be a teacher, but that, among other things, knowledge of the structure of upper secondary and upper secondary schools is required. Furthermore, the proposal states that teachers who teach a course or a subject should follow up how the student develops in relation to the knowledge requirements. It is therefore in the nature of the matter that the teaching teacher in a course or in a subject, who is particularly well placed to discover the student's difficulties in reaching the knowledge requirements of the course or in the subject, also becomes the responsible mentor. At the same time, the Government believes that the Education Act should not specify the relevant knowledge and experience required for the mission and also to be considered appropriate as a mentor. Earlier hasty reforms and not sufficiently well-designed reforms have proved to be a major burden for the school system and for school staff. It is therefore important for the government to clarify the bill. The cost development of the introduction of an official mentorship at school should also be monitored and the costs incurred by the municipality should not be increased, i.e. the responsibility of the State. It is regrettable that the Alliance, together with the Swedish Democrats, has joined forces in making it more difficult for young people in the introduction programmes to enter the regular national upper secondary school programmes. Many of us who have visited the schools and the introduction programme know that not all students who lack competence lack the skills or knowledge. Because they have only had a short time to get into society and the school, they simply have not been able to get the grades needed to move on. I believe that the government's proposal was good in terms of introduction programmes and upper secondary school qualifications. I also think that there are a number of other proposals that the government has put forward that are good. I would ask you to accept Amendment No 7.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-77	Madam President, I would like I, too, would like to join in the chorus which pays tribute to Michael Svensson. There may be more people who are forced to leave Parliament, but we do not know that yet. I would like to quote what Michael Svensson said. He lifted up Shakespeare's play A lot of beings for nothing. The play is basically about lack of communication. Two people like each other but don't dare tell each other. It reminds me quite a bit of this government's work. In addition, there is a third person who does everything to destroy the couple's relationship with each other. It also reminds us of red-green cooperation. We can consider whether this product, the bill, which is a lot of fuss for nothing, is the fruit of this communication problem which the Red-Green Government seems to have. Some proposals are put forward on the upper secondary school side, and I wonder why not take a holistic approach to upper secondary school. If you want a high school for everyone, why do you call this product something like that but then there is another high school bill that addresses other major issues at upper secondary school? If you want more people to succeed in upper secondary school, the focus should be on the structure of upper secondary school, not to put forward proposals for mentors in this bill. Madam President, I would like I think there is a lack of a holistic approach. Caroline Helmersson Olsson complained about the alliance government's reform Gy 2011. The purpose of our withdrawal Gy 2007 was that a holistic approach was needed in order for more people to succeed in high school. We felt that major changes were needed in order for everyone to succeed. I think that consideration should also be given to this government's view of people who do not succeed in high school. I think the representatives of the Social Democrats said in the debate that everyone needs high school to make it. In fact, quite a few people don't make it through high school. Is the government's message that they are not able to survive in society? Instead, let us consider how these people too are doing. It has come some to Sweden in recent years that comes quite late to primary school and high school. It is quite difficult for them to pass Swedish primary school and Swedish upper secondary school, and then our only answer cannot be that if you do not pass upper secondary school, you cannot manage in society. Our purpose, our mission, is to ensure that even those who do not have the chance to succeed in comprehensive school and high school should have a place in society. They should also be able to succeed. That is why the Alliance has presented some major changes in the road to a profession. More creativity is needed on that side. More people must be given the chance to succeed in this society, and then there is a need for some flexibility in upper secondary education. More people need to be allowed to take a faster path to working life. That doesn't mean I'm saying not everyone should have a chance to succeed in high school. I think everyone should have a chance to succeed in high school. If you can't do it when you're at that age, you have to get new chances in komvux or in other ways. But we cannot take the view that those who fail high school cannot survive in society. Our mission is to make sure they do it anyway. Madam President, I would like I'm missing a holistic approach. I think some suggestions in the bill are fair. Sometimes it's a little too forefingery. For example, you should have a mentor. It is more important to organize the school in such a way that the students receive the support they want. I do not think that we go far enough when it comes to measures for those students who are absent from lessons. That is a serious problem. You should take it even more seriously and have an idea of how to make sure they come back. We know that if you skip a lot, there is a risk that you will end up in a bad way in society. Madam President, I would like The overall picture must basically be that more people will succeed in primary school, that more people who come later to Sweden will have a chance to succeed in our education system and that upper secondary school will be so flexible and adapted to people's needs that more people succeed in moving on to either higher education or a profession or in other ways in life. More roads to work are needed. This bill, Madam President, should have been put together by the government with the other major reform proposed in high school, because things must stick together. With this, Madam President, I would like to vote in favour of Amendment No 2.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-90	Madam President, I would like I saw other lights shining but discovered that it was because it was thought that Christer Nylander made a good speech, which I actually have to agree with. I didn't agree. The Swedish Democrats have been pushing the line for a long time that we have to go back to some kind of two-year secondary education. Not all people are theoreticians. Some are practitioners; some need to get into work faster. I know that many people with me know people who today have come a very long way in society, who may have succeeded incredibly well, even though they did not succeed well in school. That's because they have know-how-- they know how it works out in the community. I run along with my party line that it is important to connect business and school again so that we get feedback. I know that a two-year upper secondary education is a proposal in this direction. Here I believe that the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats are getting closer together and a good and sensible proposal. How does Christer Nylander see increasing opportunities for companies to enter and help and support, both in upper secondary and higher education, with an impact assessment of what needs to be used in upper secondary school to actually get a job after upper secondary school? Maybe come in even earlier? It is not something we are debating today, but many students today do not know why they go to school. I am absolutely convinced, Madam President, that Sweden has the best school system in the world. Not only are we allowed to go to school for free – we are even paid to continue studying higher education. How does Christer Nylander view these things?
i-5077579284a4ec5c-97	Madam President, I would like This is not really part of today's dossier, but the message from me and the Liberals and the Alliance is that we would like to see shorter vocational training at upper secondary level in close cooperation with the social partners. For some of those who want to go to work quickly and support themselves, this is an effective way. It's also, I think, a way to make more people feel they're succeeding. Few things are so inhibiting for an individual as to discover that high school, which is said to be for everyone, is not for me.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-99	Madam President, I would like I am shocked to say this, but I have actually received an answer from a politician, so I am pleased.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-100	Madam President, I would like As has already been pointed out in the debate, many of us in this House have been involved in the high school inquiry aimed at increasing the flow of upper secondary education. It is not good enough that only 69 percent of our students attend upper secondary school education in three years, as is meant to be. There are proposals, and we agree on a great deal. Much has already been said – it is not easy to come last in the debate. But I intend to take my point of departure from the problem of students' absences and measures to combat absenteeism. Recurrent absence is often a warning that something is going wrong. This can range from violations and harassment to mental ill-health and exclusion. This may also involve shortcomings in school adaptation and support. Here teachers and school management have a great responsibility to daily follow up on invalid absences and help the student, in cooperation with the home if the student is under 18 years of age. My experience is that this is being sloppy in high school. In many cases, it may be enough for the student to call the school's answering machine and report ill. Then no one follows up on the reason for the absence. The Christian Democrats and the Alliance believe that the rules need to be made even clearer when it comes to both valid and invalid absence so that measures from, for example, the student health team are put in place immediately. This is what we lack in the report. There are probably several of us in here who participate in the debate in Almedalen about our so-called home sitters every year. We would need statistics on this at national level, as we do for absenteeism in the rest of the world. Today, only 50 per cent of municipalities collect or receive ongoing statistics from primary schools on pupils' absences. That's not good enough. Schools must also have active work against bullying. Zero tolerance must apply. This requires efforts on student health, but also on around staff at school who can relieve teachers so that there are other adults at hand in different areas of the schools. Madam President, I would like The Alliance does not believe that reducing eligibility requirements for upper secondary school should solve the problem of a large group lacking primary school skills. Approved grades on the introduction programmes ensure that you have the ability to proceed in your studies on a national programme. Making exceptions to the admission requirements to the national programmes creates an unequal situation for our students. Instead, we need to focus on strengthening the introduction programme of high school, where language introduction needs to be intensified. Today, the introduction programmes have in many cases become a dead end – only about 30% have moved on to a national upper secondary school programme after three years of the introduction programme. Madam President, I would like In addition to strengthening the introduction programmes, the Alliance proposes a two-year vocational school, an increased number of vocational colleges and the creation of more apprenticeships. This was my alliance colleague from the Liberals, too, inside. It is better to get a shorter vocational training and learn a practical profession than to get out early. The shorter vocational school must be in addition to the three-year upper secondary school education and be aimed at pupils who complete primary school without reaching eligibility for a national upper secondary school programme. This is about just over 17% of all pupils, that is, about 20,000 young people each year. The jobs are out there. Not least does Ulrika from the Center and I, who each month go to the entrepreneurs out on the plain of Västgötas. They're screaming for labor and skilled people. The jobs are there, and people who can do the jobs are there. But we need to get a match between these two. Lowering the thresholds to the labour market where jobs are located, without devaluation of the value of having undergone a national upper secondary programme, is something we must strive for. With this, I call for reservations 2 and 4.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-112	Madam President, I would like We have a couple of different issues concerning education to debate in the coming weeks and two proposals to deal with today alone. It will be a little overt, as was the case with any speaker in the previous debate. At the same time, it is gratifying to be able to put a lot of energy into education issues. It is, Madam President, with a good school that we create life chances for young people in Sweden. In an increasingly changing world and a future where we do not know what jobs we are going to train our children for or what the labour market will look like, it is really grounded basic knowledge that is the key to continued success and learning and transition opportunities through life. With solid basic knowledge of language, mathematics, science and social science, we make sure to equip children for a future that we do not really know what it contains. It is therefore extremely important that we really prioritise basic knowledge rather than being caught up in whims and trends and trying to train for a labour market that we know nothing about. It is also in view of the importance of well-functioning and solid basic knowledge that current developments in Swedish primary school are so worrying. In the last academic year, Madam President, almost one in five pupils completed comprehensive school without being qualified for upper secondary school. It was 18 000 15-year-olds who were told that they must not move further in the education system, do not get the chance to improve and in reality are therefore severely limited in their ability to get an education and stand on their own feet. At the same time, we see how both upper secondary schools and colleges and universities testify to the fact that pre-knowledge among students is falling and becoming worse and worse. It should be clear in the last ten years that Sweden has historically failed in the compensatory mission. When the conditions for the students have so greatly changed, it also becomes clear that we are not able to deliver as well as we actually have the ambition to do. Madam President, I would like When we fail in the compensatory mission, it is the weakest students who are most affected. The strong always manage and receive the support they need from home, while those who lack those conditions are the worst affected. Therefore, efforts to raise knowledge outcomes are of particular importance to the school. It is through increased knowledge that we break segregation and ensure that children get the social mobility that we all agree that they deserve and do not inherit the alienation of their parents. For this government, the School Commission, which is the subject of this bill, and then further investigations have become the answer to how this should be dealt with. At a time when what is needed is to really strengthen knowledge, reforms are needed and not more investigations are needed. Therefore, it is a bit special to stand here with this particular bill. It is good that reforms are finally coming, but it is sad that we have had to wait for the whole term of office and, furthermore, we can see that much is still being pushed forward in the future. Madam President, I would like To allow children to become victims of their circumstances and to be made representatives of their class or their parents' economic or educational background is not acceptable. Of course, different children have different conditions when they start school, and therefore the right resources are needed, at the right schools and to the right students, to ensure that everyone can go as far as it is ever possible. But that's why it's also important that the school meets all students, regardless of background, with high expectations. The background must not be an excuse for the school to be allowed to fail with another year's students. Madam President, the Commission's and the Government's proposals on universal social composition are an example of an issue that is taking the wrong perspective. The focus is on the students' background rather than on their future. To be honest, there is also somewhere the limit of reasonableness when individual principals are expected to be responsible for creating a comprehensive social composition in each individual classroom. The detailed regulation of the principals' work and the invasive attack on people's background are becoming very clear and explicit. The practical consequences, Madam President, will also be significant. Here the School Commission is clear that that is what it actually wants to achieve. This is proposed in order to see it as an opportunity to limit the free choice of schools and thus to give municipalities the opportunity to strongly control the composition of pupils and to reverse the free choice of schools at upper secondary level – the level where the support for free choice of schools is by far the most compact. It is noted that this is the result of this change, but it is not something that the government is directly proud of when it presents the bill. On the contrary, responsible ministers choose instead to give the impression that this would be a goal. It would be rather about fine portal clauses to guide municipal politicians than about anything that would have any practical consequences at all. I think it would be nice to be honest about the fact that what is being proposed is, in fact, a severe restriction on the free choice of school. Madam President, I would like The bill that is on our table deals with several matters. Among other things, the School Commission and the Government propose that it should be possible to punish even public authorities with tougher sanctions than today. This is very welcome, but it is insufficient. If we are to have a school system in which students and knowledge are put at the centre, the conditions for all schools, regardless of their principal, must be the same. We cannot achieve this with this proposal, but we need further measures to ensure that public authorities have the same requirements as private ones, which today have much higher requirements. On the contrary, we see how other government proposals, not least regarding the Owner Review investigation and profit bans, which Parliament will also vote on in the next few weeks, drag the Swedish school system in the opposite direction. Madam President, I would like It is a broad proposition that we have to deal with, which largely sums up the work of the School Commission. I am not going to touch on all the parts where we are in great agreement and which will not be voted on in this House. In conclusion, however, I think it should be emphasised that a great deal of the School Commission's proposal is missing from this proposal. Although the government has argued that the School Commission needs to be treated in its entirety, it chooses to lift the parts related to active school selection and joint admission to public schools and free schools. These are issues for which the government could be supported in this House and which should reasonably be dealt with under a common ceiling because it argues in this way. Yet they have been chosen to lift them out. If you want to take a holistic approach, I think, just as Christer Nylander was in the previous debate, that it would be good to do so now that you have the chance. Finally, allow me to endorse reservations 1 and 6 and hope for a pleasant, long and interesting debate!
i-5077579284a4ec5c-130	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for our reservations 3 and 4. I would first like to announce that we intend to vote in favour of reservation 1 under paragraph 1 of the current proposal, which we are debating here. We had a proposal of our own on this subject that clarified the current rules. We do not want to introduce the new rules proposed by the government in the bill on areas of uptake and social composition. The proposal contains several proposals of a slightly different nature. Some of the proposals we think are good, and we have nothing to disagree with them. However, we have comments on other proposals. On the question of the social composition of the pupils' documentation for schools, we have our own proposal which, in principle, seeks to clarify what is already in force today. A clarification is needed as it has come to my attention that some municipalities simply do not understand what applies and has always applied. Thus, municipalities can and have always been able to adjust the catchment area to the school in order to obtain a more socio-economically mixed pupil composition – this by adjusting the radius of the school's catchment area. Otherwise, we believe that socio-economic compensatory measures should be carried out in a different way than through laboratory exercises with programme selection or busing of school pupils. Furthermore, the proposal, which someone was on, is unclear in what is meant by concrete measures. I think it is too unclear to form the basis of a sharp proposal, and I thought so before I read what the referral bodies think. The problem of socio-economically segregated schools is rooted in segregated residential areas. Yes, and to do something about the latter segregation is a huge task that will take time– we know that. But the shortcut to busing students at least we say no to. With regard to the proposal to discourage absenteeism, in whatever form it may be, we are strongly critical of the government's proposal. The principal and the principal will investigate the reasons for the absence, which is of course a natural first step. Then, as we see if we read the bill, it will continue to be investigated and investigated. Investigating the causes of absenteeism is not a measure in itself, as the government seems to believe. No problem is solved just by investigating one thing. At best, you find out the reasons for the absence, but then you have to take action in some way, make demands and do something important. Otherwise, we think it is substandard. With regard to the proposal for the appointment of a school manager – a completely new position – the remit must be clearly defined. One must be able to demand direct responsibility from the official and know who is responsible for what. According to the Government, the proposal is intended to remedy shortcomings in the Swedish school. It is perhaps not a bad proposal to introduce a state level above the municipal level, in order to increase the equivalence of schools, but the proposal means that the principals, who already run the school, appoint another person with the title of school manager. There is a misthinking here and an attempt is being made to remedy a problem with more of what already exists today. The government's proposal to provide more opportunities to act against principals who do not meet the minimum requirements is basically a good proposal, and I think that is the best thing in the bill. However, we want to go one step further and that the state should be able to take control entirely from a school that has more or less failed. We had the example of Rosengårdsskolan a few years ago. The government's proposal is a step in the right direction, but it is unsolved, to use old Marxist terminology.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-142	Madam President, I would like It's always a little exciting when you get a bill in your hand and it's available in the basement of the various compartments. It is also a bill that has tried to layout a little more, with children running out on breaks, movement, physical activity and so on. Collection for the school is called the bill, and it was the entire School Commission's collective name. But I have to say, unfortunately, that I am a little disappointed with what has been included in the bill, because, as Erik Bengtzboe said in his speech, there were many important issues that for some reason did not get space there. There are a couple of different parts that can be included, and I thought I would bring up a couple that I think are important to highlight. One issue concerns absence, as in the previous report we debated. I would like once again to express the importance of these children receiving the support they need to complete school in different ways. Sometimes absence is the first step. I had the privilege of visiting Vänersborg municipality a while ago to see how they work with children who have a large absence from school. Once they decided to go deep and see how big the scale was, they were rather shocked that it was basically five times larger than they expected. There were no rules on collecting statistics and seriously getting a picture, but they took their responsibility as a municipality and have a plan for how to address this. What is important is to see how, above all, these children are supported in many different ways, and this applies to children from the first years of primary school up to upper secondary school. This is an important part in which we in the alliance parties have raised the importance of not only investigating but also presenting proposals for plans and that schools, but also municipalities, principals and also independent schools, have plans for how to do it. This is an important part that emerges. When it comes to school and student development is an important part that is often highlighted the importance of leadership. Robert Stenkvist said in his speech a moment ago that a new person should now be appointed to take responsibility. But the vast majority of municipalities today have a school manager and want to clarify the so-called management chain by providing a clearer responsibility. Then I may not think that you live up to this in full in the bill, but the approach is that there should be clarity in terms of leadership. We received a review a few years ago in committee on the PISA reports. The evaluators had been around Sweden talking to representatives from politics and with principals, teachers, parents and students. They were quite shocked to come to a society where you had a tendency to blame someone else – that it was someone else's fault that you didn't get the results you were supposed to. I have gone and thought a lot about this and felt concerned, because it is when we decide with common forces to make a difference that we can seriously do something about the problems we see. One of the discussions then was that we have a too unclear chain of governance in our country. If one can then reinforce one of the links in this chain, it is an important part. That is why we say yes to this, even if we think there is more to be desired. When it comes to the importance of leadership, political leadership is of great importance. At the moment, I am also very concerned about the discussion that is linked to independent schools, the so-called Reepalus investigation and so on. We may have different ideological backgrounds in which we reason in different ways, but I think we all have a firm conviction that we want all schools to be good schools. For the Center Party, freedom of choice is very important. It is therefore a pity that active school elections are not included in the bill. It would have been an important part of strengthening it. At the same time, I am very sorry that the debate and the blackout that is taking place in the case of many independent actors is deplorable to listen to in the public debate. With massive artillery, you go to a part of the Swedish school that I see as a huge gain with our school system, namely the freedom of choice and the opportunity to develop different educational ideas and ways of working. I am pleased with the direction that the School Inspectorate has taken, not only with the so-called compliance and regulatory supervision, but also when you look at quality. Oversight has been carried out in a number of schools, looking both at the quality of teaching and at the headmaster's leadership as two extremely important factors. So the importance of leadership is something that we will have to follow in different ways and highlight more and more. In his speech, my alliance colleague Erik Bengtzboe highlighted the importance of supporting students' learning in different ways and a good development of knowledge and making everything connected. On behalf of the Center Party, I would like to highlight a few elements in order to achieve this even better with regard to primary school, but also in order to link this with the previous debate that we had. This is about improving guidance on study and vocational guidance. There we also have a joint announcement from our committee on the importance of investing in study and career guidance, both in terms of digital support for many young people and in other areas. It's a very important part. One issue that does not apply to this, but which I would like to take the opportunity to mention briefly in this context, is the verification of ownership that is now to take place. With regard to this report, we have argued that we think it is important to treat independent and municipal schools in an equal way. This also applies to the verification of ownership, which otherwise worries on the horizon. Madam President, I would like There are some good suggestions in Collection for the school. I am in favour of reservation 1, in which the Alliance, together with the Left Party, has pointed out that the proposal for a comprehensive social composition is not a good one. In theory, it may sound good to have a socially mixed composition. But working for this way of working to be put on principals is not a good suggestion, and it is good that it seems that this proposal will fall. In the report, we in the Center Party and the Alliance are further developing this, and there is a further description of what needs to be done. In order for Swedish students to pass the school all the better, leadership is an important part. The competence of teachers is another part. However, we are not privileged to debate it today, but we will have to come back to it later.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-158	Madam President, I would like 中 The solution to the school's challenges is not in any more ill-considered reforms. It lies in peace of mind and more confidence in teachers. ..................................................... This has been said by Gustav Fridolin, and it is written on the Green Party website. I think that's a very good quote. One cannot really say that the proposals that have been made in the Collection for School are ill-considered. It is very well thought-out reforms that are being proposed. But what is missing and on which the Left Party remarks? Well, it's about making both the right side and our satisfaction come up with proposals that none of us can agree to. I think that somehow shows a lack of vision about what you want to do for the Swedish school.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-162	One basic idea of the Swedish education system is that all children and young people should have access to a good and equal education. Factors such as place of residence, family background and ethnicity should not determine the quality of schooling. The government is therefore the top priority to break the inequality of the school system. As one of many parts of this, Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin has explained that the government will review various possibilities for a fairer school election system. Then I wonder: in what way do we create opportunities for a more fair school election system by not actually changing the school election system at all? As we know, it is very important that students from different backgrounds and with a comprehensive social composition meet each other in school. However, when we have a free choice of schools that eliminates this whole system, the universal social composition does not matter, because it is always the free choice that takes precedence over the universal social composition. Elisabet Knutsson also wrote the following in her article: As the division of Swedish and foreign pupils into schools increases and the gap between results widens, we must take responsibility, not passively hide behind freedom of choice as a sacred principle. The Red - Green Government is convinced that children from different backgrounds actually enrich and teach each other. Therefore, we are now acting to overcome segregation in the Swedish school. Then I wonder again: how do we act to ensure that children of different backgrounds meet when we do not put forward a proposal to change the free choice of school?
i-5077579284a4ec5c-169	However, the free choice of schools reinforces segregation and increases the gap between resource-rich and resource-weak pupils. This must be countered by allocating society's resources so that all pupils are given equal opportunities for knowledge and personal development. Coherent schools, where children from different environments and backgrounds meet in a joint effort, are an important tool for an equal society. ..................................................... Once again, the question is: Where is the proposal to ensure that students from resource-rich and resource-weak homes meet? Madam President, I would like School and preschool are not suitable for business thinking. A good education is a human right. Students should be able to trust that they have a school to come back to after the summer vacation. And it is not the responsibility of parents to make sure that the children end up in a good school. In Sweden, we will ensure that all children go to schools that are good. All schools should be good. I believe that the government's proposal for the principals to promote a comprehensive social composition would have worked in a situation where the government had also carried out a reform to scrap today's unfair and segregated school system. It is the freedom of establishment of free schools and the extreme school election system that is the cause of today's segregation in our schools. When the school election system has changed fundamentally, a system of comprehensive social composition can also be developed. I have therefore proposed in reservation 1 that the Riksdag should reject the bill in the part concerning the proposal to include in the School Act that principals should work towards a comprehensive social composition. However, I am in favour of our reservation 5 which gives a little better explanation for our position on this issue. I would like to conclude by saying that the Alliance is at least as guilty of having the segregated school system that we have today. It is a fact that if the government had put forward a proposal that would have been more in accordance with what the research says, you would still have gone against it, that is, if the government had proposed that the school election system should fundamentally change, you would have gone against it – as would the Swedish Democrats. However, I still think that the government should think seriously, not only on this issue, but also on many other issues. Where are the visions? What do the Social Democrats and the Green Party want with regard to our society? Or should it always be adapted to what the right wants?
i-5077579284a4ec5c-174	Madam President, I would like There were, of course, elements of Shakespeare in the previous debate, thanks to Michael Svensson. Shakespeare can almost always be used, for there are few people in world history who have so skillfully illustrated power games and man's conditions in the world. When I read this report, I came to think of Hamlet, the person who doubts whether or not he should act, who is torn between being a man of action and a man of doubt. A little bit, I suppose, with regard to the proposals in this proposal. The government says it wants a comprehensive social composition, but when you explain it, you say: It is not very sharp, and it will not be evaluated. We are not going to say exactly how it is going to happen, and we have no means to implement it. With regard to government governance, it is said that further measures are needed to ensure that bad schools cannot remain bad without the state having to go in sometimes – but it does not conclude that we should perhaps have a state headship. The same is true of the School Commission. You doubt and hesitate. You pretend to be a government of action, but in fact it is very small measures that you propose. Madam President, I would like Me and the Liberals think it's important that we have a school that's blind to background. It is not, in essence, a question of seeking a comprehensive social composition in all schools – a definition and a measure that really does not exist – but of being really blind to background. Teachers and vice-chancellors should not be concerned about what educational conditions the student comes from, which parents the student has or where the student is born, but should be more interested in where the student is going and what the student can do. Being blind to background is the basis for the school to become really compensatory. There should be more resources for those students who really need it, but there should be not only more resources in general but qualitative resources. It is worrying that this government stopped carrying out our reform for primary teacher services, where we specially dedicated special resources to those schools with the greatest challenges. This is precisely where the experienced principals and the experienced and skilled teachers are particularly needed. Where students face the greatest challenges, there must be more resources but also more quality in resources. Today we have a school, Madam President, which has a huge turnover all the time. It is students who come and go, teachers who come and go and principals who come and go. It is not enough simply to say that we should have a comprehensive social composition, and it is not enough simply to provide resources. Instead, it must be the right resources and resources of high quality. When it comes to an active school choice, we want there to be freedom of choice in Swedish schools. We want there to be alternatives in Swedish schools, and we want more people to choose. That is why there are proposals for active school elections, and I would like the government to go ahead with this issue, as the School Commission proposed. It is about high expectations, to make sure that we have knowledge requirements that apply to everyone in school and to believe that everyone can manage to reach not only the approved level but even further in the grade scale. Here, Madam President, there is a doubt from the government: it says that it wants to achieve a comprehensive social composition and that it should be blind to background, but in fact there are very few tools. It is the same with regard to government governance. It is noted that there are schools that do not work, some public and some independent, and then it is reasonable that the state has clear tools to do something about this. Some schools need to be closed down, others need to have another principal. Sometimes the state should come in. In essence, however, it is about the need for state leaders, Madam President, and proper measures for this to work. As Ulrika Carlsson was involved, a clear control system for Swedish schools is needed. The school commission worked for a long time. The idea was that they would take a holistic approach, and now we see that the government is breaking out parts of this. Sometimes the government said that you have to put this forward as a whole bill, and now you break it out in some parts. There too, there are doubts as to what the government really thinks. Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 1 and reservation 6. I would like to conclude with the words I believe are Hamlet's very last: the rest is silence. I think that also applies to this government.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-186	Madam President, I would like Right should be right. I have said what I think of the government's weak and visionless policy in this area, but I must also put the question to Christer Nylander, whose party and party leaders have been in power for eight years. They had the Ministry of Education in Sweden, the country of all OECD countries where segregation perhaps increased most – even in the school field. What did Christer Nylander's government and Christer Nylander's party leader and Minister for Education Jan Björklund do about it? What did Christer Nylander himself, and his party, do to reduce segregation in the Swedish school? It is a fact that research and all the reports that have come in recent years, not only now but also early in the Alliance's time in power, pointed out that segregation and differences between students are increasing because of the school election system we have in Sweden. There were reports showing that Sweden is the only country in the world with this market experiment, which is carried out on children in the Swedish school. What did Christer Nylander do about it? It is quite easy to accuse the government of one or the other today. I can do that, because I and our policy have been consistent on these issues since day one. But how does Christer Nylander feel that he is consistent when it comes to these issues? What did his better government do?
i-5077579284a4ec5c-189	Madam President, I would like Speaking of consistency, you have consistently supported the government's draft budget, Daniel Riazat. It is the draft budget that has meant that the first teachers' services in the areas of exclusion have stopped being expanded, which is a reform that I think is extremely important. This applies not only to the first teacher services themselves, which increase the salary development of teachers but also means that there are career opportunities, but also to the special destination of those schools with particular challenges. I think we should continue to develop this and ensure that we have more first teachers in those schools where they are most needed. It is true that the Swedish school system with freedom of choice is very special internationally. This does not mean that there is no freedom of choice in other countries; the difference is only that in other countries you have to pay for yourself if you choose something other than public school. The great advantage of the Swedish system is that everyone can choose a school. Here we have independent schools and also joint funding for these schools. If you want to go to a private school in another country, you have to pay for it yourself, and the parents' finances will come through completely when it comes to who has freedom of choice and who doesn't. We want to take a further step by having an active school choice, which means that the information becomes better, that more people get the chance to choose, that more are invited and encouraged to choose – and that more actually also choose. This means the development of the freedom of choice system, not the dismantling of the freedom of choice system. Then I know, Madam President, that we have a major housing segregation in Sweden. I think we're all hard aware of that. It makes sense in what schools look like, but the answer to that question is not to reintroduce the principle of proximity. If we have a very large residential segregation in Sweden, what does the principle of proximity mean? Well, it means that you go to the school that is located in your residential area. So there will be even more segregation. You stay there instead of getting the chance to choose something else. Our solution and our answer are: Give everyone the chance to choose a school that they think suits their children. Don't lock them in the segregated residential area!
i-5077579284a4ec5c-194	Madam President, I would like Christer Nylander's response failed. I certainly do not want to lock up the children at Djursholm with all the other children who have exactly the same background. I don't want the children of Täby to have to meet only the children of parents with very high incomes. That's not what this is about. What this is about is that the Alliance – as you said earlier, Christer Nylander – has been blind to the actual differences that exist between the children who come to our schools. For me, the view or measures on how to build an equal school are not about saying that there are no differences. It does. Some children come from homes where they have not had enough breakfast to concentrate in school. There are students who come from home where you do not have knowledge of how the Swedish school system works, which means that some students – no matter how much school selection system we have – will not be able to choose these schools. There is also something fundamentally different. It is about the question of why there should be bad and good schools. Again, what did the Alliance do to ensure that differences would not increase? Then it is a myth that housing segregation leads to more segregation in school than the school election system does. All research shows – the last day before yesterday, research showed – that housing segregation has decreased in the last five years, with the new government in power and with the Left Party's budget support. What is increasing, however, and increasing more than in any OECD country, are the differences in Swedish school and segregation. It is because of a school election system where profit-making actors have put the entire school system out of play. I mean you're guilty of that, Christer Nylander.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-198	Madam President, I would like It is probably quite difficult to measure exactly what determines who goes where. It may be that housing segregation can be matched by free choice of school, but it may also be enhanced by free choice of school. Different research shows different things. But the main question is really this: if one believes that there is housing segregation, which I think the Left and Liberals agree on, is the answer to this housing segregation that we should not have free school elections? Is the answer that students should attend school in the residential area where they live? This will result in the abolition of active school elections and, instead, the introduction of the principle of proximity. Then the students, whether we are talking about Djursholm or Rosengård, will be placed in the school located in their residential area. This cannot be the answer if you want to break the segregation. Instead, our answer is to ensure that the school elections work and that we have an active school choice – that more people get information and that more people have the opportunity to choose. But it should also be ensured that more schools – yes, all schools – become really good. On the most recent point, Mr President, it must be said that Daniel Riazat is one of the few who say that the Alliance Government did not make any school reforms. There were quite a few school reforms during these eight years. It was about introducing a new school law, compensatory measures, a teacher training, providing teachers with training, grades and a lot of other things to ensure that the minimum level of all schools is raised. Basically, it is about the fact that not all schools will be the same, and perhaps not all will be exactly as good. But the most important thing in the short term is to raise the lowest level in all schools. All schools should be as good as possible. But we must also have a compensatory force. There are two main compensatory forces against housing segregation. One is to allow free school elections, the other is to allocate resources to the schools that need them most.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-204	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation No 1. Many of us speaking today have been part of the school commission of which today's report is the result. There are many good proposals. Common to all of us, we must say, is that we want all students to succeed in school. There is no doubt about this. The goal of the school shall be for each child to develop in accordance with his or her full potential. All children have the right to know and to attend a good school. After all, childhood is not reprising, and it is very difficult and costly to repair a failed schooling later in life. Passing school is also a crucial safeguard for not getting lost in the future. Mr President, I would like to The report proposes that the head of a school should actively promote a comprehensive social composition. At first sight this may seem very sympathetic; we need more forums in society where people from different backgrounds meet. But to come up with impossible systems to divide students by background, I see as a dangerous way to go. So where do we end up? It makes me think about when the committee was in London. We were at a school, and the students who couldn't afford lunch went with a little note on their stomachs. I don't want to end up there. I don't want us to stigmatise students like that. Instead, the school must take the compensatory mission seriously. School cannot compensate for everything in young people's lives, but you have a responsibility for everyone to pass school and for everyone having equal conditions to do so. This is, as I was talking about, the greatest protection factor that we can give a child or a young person. This does not mean that we in the Alliance do not take the problem of segregation seriously. Changing queue rules, implementing active school choices and daring to close bad schools – both municipal and independent – must be much better ways to go. Mr President, I would like to What, then, makes students succeed in school? It all starts with a good teacher. It begins with the presence of knowledgeable, committed teachers who enjoy their job and who can arouse interest and joy in attending school. There is still much to be done here in terms of recruiting the right people for the teaching profession and improving the quality of teacher training. Students with special needs also need early support. That is why we Christian Democrats have long proposed a special teacher's lift, which pays for education, so that we get more of the special pedagogic skills in schools. My experience is that you are afraid to stigmatise students by pointing them out as different when you put in early support. But the real stigmatisation takes place by having a system in which the student must be investigated in order for the support to be put in place. Supporting special teachers would not have to be a big deal. Everyone may need it sometime during their schooling, and going to a special teacher in these moments should not be anything strange. That is what is inclusive; it is not exclusive. In Finland, which we have also visited, you put in a special teacher as soon as you suspect that someone is at risk of not passing a moment. We need as much special teacher skills in our schools. Mr President, I would like to In addition, large investments in student health are needed in order for our students to pass the school. Many feel mentally ill and have to wait unreasonablely long for help and treatment. In addition to the need for a proper assessment of why mental illness is increasing, much needs to be done for a comprehensive student health system where all health care is under the county council, which is also the Christian Democrats' proposal. We want to give county councils or regions an overall mandate for the entire child and youth health care system. This also means that the student health system should not have the school as its principal. School doctors, school nurses, school counselors and school psychologists should be present in the activities, but they should have the same principal as other children's health professionals. This is in order to capture children and young people on time and to clarify the responsibility for children's health. Recently, the Swedish Public Health Agency reported that mental illness among our young people is increasing dramatically, and the school was identified as the main cause. However, I strongly oppose the fact that school would be the main problem. Account must be taken of the whole life situation of our young people, including home conditions and the use of social media to name just a few areas. But, of course, the school also has a responsibility. Some of the key elements for increased well-being among our young people are moving – preferably every day – that student health is available when you need it, that you get the help and support you need from properly trained staff such as specialist teachers and educators, and that you receive native language support. Teachers also need to feel that they have a mandate to create order, security and peace of mind without being questioned. Mr President, I would like to This is my school mission as a Member of Parliament on the Education Committee!
i-5077579284a4ec5c-221	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats have said on several occasions in the Parliament's Education Committee that they should vote on their proposal, in order, at the last second of today's debate, to completely change and vote on the bourgeois alliance's proposal instead of their own. The Swedish Democrats are, of course, free to vote on any proposals they want, but I must say that it is extremely remarkable that they repeatedly avoid pursuing their own policy in the Swedish Parliament. Either the Swedish Democrats are a totally unreliable party or they have still not learned how parliamentary work works, even though they have been in parliament for eight years. That's remarkable. Well, these five parties – this right-wing axis of Swedish politics – will jointly reject the proposal for social universal composition. They are therefore opposed to all principals having a responsibility for the school as a meeting place. They are against the school being a place where students of different backgrounds meet, even though this is the foundation of a strong society and even though we know that it benefits students and raises the results of knowledge. It's sad. Because of this new situation, I would like to warn the President and the House that I may have to take more time than the minutes I have previously indicated. Nor have I been entitled to any comments, but perhaps this was the purpose of the Swedish Democrats: to get away from it and to avoid once again representing their untrustworthiness and dishonesty. Mr President, I would like to Let me take us some four years back to the previous term's newspaper Björklund: Unfortunately, it was not only Björklund who received stinging criticism. Swedish school didn't feel well: It feels today a long time ago but also like just now. Do you remember the headlines, the disaster figures and the situation in Swedish school? Björklund and the moderate-led government had been running the school for eight years. The results of knowledge sank like a stone. One in four trained teachers left the profession for reasons other than retirement. 10,000 employees disappeared from school. Roughly implemented career reforms and a new grade system caused teachers to protest, while chaos prevailed when hundreds of thousands of teachers' IDs were to be handled by a few officials at the National Board of Education. In upper secondary school, the proportion of pupils who chose a vocational programme fell by the time higher education qualifications were removed. The school, students and teachers appealed for serious and feasible school reforms, long-term rules of play, focus on knowledge. They had had enough sudden whims from the minister of school. It appealed for decisions based on the needs of teachers and based on research. Mr President, I would like to Now we stand here in spring 2018. I and we should be proud that we have turned the focus on Swedish school for the better. The war headlines are gone. Knowledge results are increasing in all international measurements. Studies are improving. Teachers' salaries have been raised widely and more than for other occupational groups in the labour market. More people go to the teaching profession and fewer end prematurely. The eligibility for upper secondary school is increased in the vast majority of student groups. 28 000 more people work in Swedish schools today compared to four years ago. This means everything to the student who has time to get help from a teacher, leisure teacher or student assistant when he or she raises his or her hand. In preschool, children's groups are the lowest in 30 years. This is a direction, the right path, as we shall be careful. The government listened and appointed a school commission with representatives from research, industry and industry. The school commission was a way to break with Björklund's hafs, carelessness and ideological ideas. Politics gave the profession and research a mandate to find solutions, a whole – something for us politicians to take responsibility for and be able to bear. The school commission's proposals come from those who know the school best and point to what those who work in and those who research about the school expect from the political parties. The School Commission is showing the way forward for us politicians to take on the challenges of school in the long term and seriously, because I want to say this: neither the government nor we Social Democrats are satisfied, because there are major challenges to be addressed. The family background goes through how well the students do in school. The school's compensatory tasks will not be met when socio-economic differences are evident in the school's results. In 2015, 163 000 asylum seekers arrived in our country. This has led to Sweden's largest humanitarian effort since the Second World War, with all the challenges but also opportunities that it entails. In the short term, our schools will be able to give the children who can stay the right to knowledge and schooling just like all other children in Sweden. The fact that the group of newly arrived students is increasing significantly, not least in the group that has arrived late in Sweden and thus has a short time to complete comprehensive school, naturally affects the eligibility of these student groups to upper secondary school. But in the longer term, it is these children and young people that we now welcome to Sweden that is Sweden's future workforce – what we so badly need. Mr President, I would like to More needs to be done. Major challenges remain. Several hundreds of days of hard work will be required for more trained teachers, more staff, equipped school premises and classrooms, better pupil health, clearer government control and active work with security in each corridor, dressing room, climbing position and classroom. Students with different needs, background and conditions need to meet in school. The school is an important meeting place in a democratic society. And we know that the composition of student groups affects the ability of schools to live up to the goals of the School Act of equal quality education. In fact, it is this simple: if the learning outcomes in school are to continue upwards, equivalence needs to be increased. It's as simple and at the same time as it's so hard. There are no buts. An equal school is important for everyone in Sweden. Inequality must be broken. The same analysis carried out the School Commission, which has produced a series of proposals to increase equivalence. That is why, of course, I am both angry and disappointed that the Moderates, the other bourgeois parties and now the Swedish Democrats are saying no to virtually any proposal from the School Commission that is about greater equality. I would like to point out that the government in the budget, against the will of the bourgeoisie, has managed to introduce a clearer state responsibility with large additions of resources, mostly to the schools that need it best, just as the School Commission proposed. The Government holds the whole of the School Commission's proposal. What we are debating today, the Collection for School report, also includes reforms based on the School Commission's proposals for higher knowledge outcomes and improved equivalence, which in turn is based on trust in profession and research. Students, teachers and Swedish schools would have needed all the decisions that Parliament is handling today, because they are an important part of strategic work for an improved Swedish school, for more knowledge and greater equivalence. We would have had to include in the School Act that the heads of the preschool class, comprehensive school and upper secondary school should actively promote a comprehensive social composition of the pupils in their school units. That is not the case today. However, the decision remains that the principals should appoint a school manager to ensure that the regulations applicable to the education are complied with and that the School Inspectorate should be able to intervene with state measures and rectification against municipalities and county councils under the same conditions as when an approval of an individual principal is withdrawn. In addition, there are changes introduced to reduce students' repeated longer absences, and that is of course a good thing. However, I must point out that it is strange that parties that otherwise in this House are happy to talk about clearer government governance and government heads consistently say no to proposals for increased government governance in line with the School Commission's proposal on greater equality. They say no to the large government contribution of SEK 6 billion per year. They say no to the multimillion-dollar initiative Collaboration for the best school, where the state actively goes in and supports the preschools and schools with low knowledge results. They say no to the government's equality allowance, which is allocated to those primary schools with a low percentage of pupils qualified for upper secondary school. And now they also say no to the responsibility to ensure that we get the best composition of the groups in school for increased knowledge. Mr President, I would like to Those of us who remember school chaos a few years ago remember the appeals for long-termness and a school policy based on faith in teachers, professions, science and research. We could be led to believe that all parties have learned from this and gathered stands up for Swedish school and the whole that is required, but unfortunately this is not the case. That also shows today's debate. It worries me deeply and makes me deeply sad that it is so easy for the Swedish right to say yes to unlimited winnings and a school election that is neither free nor fair and yes to religious free schools, but that it is so difficult to say yes to increased equivalence and equality. On the one hand, it's sad, and on the other hand it's historyless. Sweden previously had one of the most equal and high-performance school systems in the world. We would need that in the future too. That is why, for almost four years now, the Social Democratic-led government has prioritised investment in schools over tax cuts and cuts. Mr President, I would like to As a parent, one should feel confident that one's child will have an educational and safe schooling. It should apply to all parents and all children. In order to guarantee everyone good schooling, greater responsibility must be taken for equality at school and more resources directed at those schools that need it best. Knowledge results in Swedish schools are increasing; children learn more. But if development is to continue and apply to all, inequality must be broken. All children should be given the opportunity to reach the knowledge results, no matter where they live or what school they go to. In the school area, the choice in September is about whether or not schools should continue to receive large resources supplements, whether knowledge or profit should be the purpose of Swedish school and whether schools should be responsible for the construction worker's children sitting in the same classroom as the doctor's children. When it comes to the desire to create an equal school of knowledge, the political dividing line is sharp. The inequality of Swedish schools does not seem to be a problem for the bourgeoisie. We Social Democrats promise to continue to prioritise investment in education, long-term reforms and a school policy that relies on the profession and is based on science and research. It has produced results in the right direction. I support the committee's proposal in UbU27 Collection for the school and rejection of all reservations – because Sweden is stronger when we stick together. I hope that Sweden's voters will also vote in favour of it in the autumn elections, because we have come a long way. But here we did not come anymore because a right-wing coalition made a united front against equality. Then some say that politics does not matter, but of course it matters.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-251	Mr President, I would like to I was going to use the time mainly to ask questions. However, I cannot help but return to the TV programme that passed two days ago about how the entire free school reform and free school elections were driven through by Göran Persson. As far as I remember, he is a social democrat, and he pushed it through despite great resistance. No, everything was not right in this reform. I am the first to point that out. But a little self-criticism from the Social Democrats would be appropriate. It was you who pushed this through with great power. So to the questions. What more times have the Swedish Democrats changed their mind at this stage and voted in the Alliance? I can't remember a single time since I ended up in the Education Committee. That was question one. Question two: Does Matilda Ernkrans think that our announcement somehow resembles the government proposal in the bill? Question three: What is concrete in the Government's proposal to increase social composition, in addition to changing schools' programming, which I think is encountering major practical difficulties?
i-5077579284a4ec5c-256	Mr President, I would like to It is fascinating that the Swedish Democrats are taking the right to ask questions to the Social Democrats in this debate. The Swedish Democrats have had several opportunities to raise their hands and to take the floor when the Education Committee has dealt with the matter. We have an order in the Committee on Education, which I chair, which makes it easy to raise your hand, ask questions, speak and take a stand in the preparation that we usually have in the Swedish Parliament. You have had every chance, but it has not even twitched a little in the hands of the Swedish Democrats, not until you, in the course of the debate, ask for the approval of an alliance reservation – which the Left Party is also in on – I want to put on the record – which makes the majority change. It is the reservation that will be the decision of the Riksdag. This means a refusal to give responsibility for a comprehensive social composition and a refusal to take responsibility throughout Sweden and at all schools to allow the children of the construction worker to sit side by side with the doctor's children, ordinary people. We will take responsibility for ensuring that all children in Swedish schools have the right to the knowledge they need and that the results of knowledge increase. But the Swedish Democrats have now decided, together with the bourgeois parties and the Left Party, that a rejection will be the decision of the Riksdag without the slightest effort to announce it in advance. It is the Swedish Democrats who will answer in this debate and I who will ask the questions. Why don't you stand up for the construction worker's daughter to sit side by side with the doctor's son in Swedish classrooms?
i-5077579284a4ec5c-261	Mr President, I would like to Yes, we stand up for this through, among other things, the free school elections, which the Social Democrats were also involved in introducing. That was the very idea of that reform. I don't understand. Wasn't it supposed to be like that from the start? I know it doesn't really work that way today, but it does work to some extent. The free choice of school means that some people in vulnerable areas put their children in schools in better areas to give them a better future. In the best of worlds, all schools would be just as good. But you Social Democrats themselves, for various reasons, went away from basic equivalence once upon a time. Göran Persson did so when you, together with almost the entire Riksdag, pushed through the free school reform. Now we see both the negative and the positive effects of it. As I said in my speech, I do not understand what is concrete in the Government's proposal. It's unclear and not good. The fact that we did not announce this may depend on how it has worked when we have announced things in committee – but not in the Education Committee, I would like to emphasise. But in other committees there have been strange things after we have announced. That is why we have done this once in the Committee on Education and Training. It has not happened several times, as Matilda Ernkrans says, but this is the first and only time. I know that Ernkrans is new to the committee, but since it was the first time it happened in the Education Committee, she should not say that it has happened regularly. It has not, and neither will it.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-266	Mr President, I would like to I said that the Swedish Democrats act unreliablely and have done so several times. You have also, I said, several times in the Swedish Parliament, not announced during the preparatory work, but instead chosen to change the position in this House. It's unreliable. I note that I did not receive an answer from the Swedish Democrats about what you think and think that you are now voting away the proposal for a comprehensive social composition and that we should have the best student groups in our schools so that the results of knowledge can be increased for all children. Nor have the Swedish Democrats put forward any alternative proposal to increase equality in schools. It is about the ideological compass and ideological basis of the Swedish democrats. You don't think equality is important. You do not think it is important to ensure that we have a majority in the Swedish parliament who seriously see the reality, who sees the shortcomings of the free school reform and who, based on research and profession, are trying to find broad ways forward to do something about it, as the government has done with the School Commission's proposal. This is about the ideological compass of the Swedish Democrats. Robert Stenkvist mentions several times a former Social Democratic Prime Minister, Göran Persson, and this is what it is all about. You don't want a Social Democratic Prime Minister. You will never cast your vote on a man who has been a foster child, who has been a welder and who has gone all the way up to becoming prime minister and leads this country with an enormous commitment to ordinary people and to the whole country. He's the one you want to stop. You will never vote for Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister, and that is your ideological compass. Now you have again said that you are not for equality but for inequality.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-272	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament. I am extremely surprised if the ideological compass of the Social Democracy is so radical. Then I wonder why there is no proposal to change the free choice of school. In fact, this proposal is not about the working class's sons being able to attend the same school as the CEO's daughter. The proposal is about, after several years of investigation and many reports of segregation, producing something to please everyone in this House. The proposal therefore falls. I would just like to emphasise that, at first, this vote does not depend on the votes of the Left Party. We know that it is a fact that the Swedish Democrats change views as many times as the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise invites them to dinners. But that's another question. The Alliance does not want all children to meet the school and that we should not have an equal school. For me, there is no doubt about that. But where is the Social Democratic, ideological compass? And what are the government's visions of what you want with the Swedish school? It is not included in this report. If there had been any focus on changing the school election system – the most extreme school election system in the world – then the Left Party would have been able to support that proposal. We have made compromises, for example when implementing various reforms such as free medicine for children, free public transport for schoolchildren in the summer. There we make compromises together, we get along and we make a budget. But where is the ideology of Social Democracy in this case?
i-5077579284a4ec5c-278	Mr President, I would like to Here too, I think the Left Party deserves to have the questions and give the answers. Daniel Riazat can try to say that it is not with the help of the Left Party's votes that the proposal for a social all-round composition is being tabled. It is true, but it is equally true that the Left Party, together with the bourgeois parties and now also today the Swedish Democrats in this House, will vote for rejection in order for all schools in our country to have a responsibility to work for the student composition to have a comprehensive social composition, to have student groups that are mixed. This is based on the proposals from the School Commission, from research and from the profession. After all, no one has claimed that this is the only unifying proposal in order, in the opinion of the Social Democrats, to be able to govern and reform. It is the view of the Social Democrats on how to change society step by step to something better. We left the revolutionary part through the break between the Left Party and the Social Democrats in 1917. The Left Party is still in the revolutionary branch. If you do not get everything, you can go so far as to be prepared, together with the bourgeois parties, to reject a part of a larger whole of how the Swedish school system can be reformed for something better. We have put in a socio-economic distribution of the money that goes to schools. Here today we have a mixed student composition. We want to stop the prize hunt. That debate will be discussed in Parliament in a few weeks' time. We Social Democrats also want to remove the queue system, reform school money and we want a common application system. There are lots of things that we would like to put in place to get a better school system in Sweden. But sometimes you need to take responsibility for a whole.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-283	Mr President, I would like to I am delighted that after several years of persuasion from the Left Party, the Social Democrats agreed to make proposals to limit the pursuit of profit in welfare. I am very pleased with many of the reforms that we have agreed together. Unlike Matilda Ernkrans, I don't want to talk about 1917 but about 2018. I would like to talk about the visionless policy of social democracy, which unfortunately stands for many times. This is evident not least when you turn around in a number of different issues to approach the Alliance. Matilda Ernkrans can choose to try rhetorically to make this question about whether we should have a school where students meet or not. The fact is that this proposal makes no difference today. Why? Because, as long as we have today's school election system in primary school, a comprehensive social composition will not apply at all because the free choice of school always comes before a comprehensive social composition. Then I would like to inform Matilda Ernkrans that the Left Party has often exercised about what the government needed several years of investigation to produce, to have a composition in school that assumes that students mix and meet. We know, according to all the research, that's the best part. But one cannot pretend to propose changes that you are now making by presenting a proposal that does not mean any change to today's School Sweden and then claim that you somehow have an ideology. Social Democracy left not only the Left Party in 1917 but also its ideology. I mean, this is proof of that. I regret that the Social Democracy cannot stand up and do what Mr Palme once said, namely to want to change and not just talk about wanting to change.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-289	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that the Left Party is an important partner, not least when we present budgets in this House. But to move away from what Daniel Riazat and the Left Party are trying to assert, that it is the Left Party that governs the Social Democratic Party or the policy put forward by the government, is probably to make a rather small left party a little bigger than it is. The Social Democratic Party itself governs its policy. We make the decisions that we want to go forward and meet the voters in every election, how we want to change Sweden and Swedish society, how we want to change the Swedish school and what we have learned from the students in the free school elections and how we can ensure that we have a school system that is better for all children. We chose to do this by listening to the strong criticism that existed after eight years of moderate management with Björklund as Minister of Education. Students, teachers and people in general wanted a more long-term school policy. They wanted it to be based on the profession and research. We chose to listen to it and set up in a government position a school commission that has put forward proposals that are both good and bad from a social democratic ideological perspective. If you are serious about wanting to change Swedish schools, then you have to be able to stand up for a whole. We must stand up for what increases equality and also other things that we would not really like to see. But hopefully we get a majority in this House that can take Swedish school systems to something better than it is today. That is the difference between the Social Democrats and the Left Party. We are prepared to make compromises that take Sweden in the right direction instead of standing by.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-293	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that Daniel Riazat and the Left Party are welcome to the right-wing axis of Swedish politics. It was a new message from the Social Democrats that I am watching with horror-blown delight. This is clearly how one looks at one's partner in budgetary matters. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has had falling knowledge results since the 1980s. In addition, we have also had falling knowledge results and grades for a long time. The municipalisation of the Social Democrats and then substantial savings in school throughout the 1990s broke down the school structure of trust and professionalism that Swedish schools had. After that ten years of desert migration waited for Swedish school politics where the Social Democratic government after government did not even manage to get a new school team in place. You couldn't even get along with your coalition partners back then. Even then, the Green Party chose to settle a deal with the Alliance. Given how Ernkrans Matilda and the Social Democrats handled the Left Party as a coalition partner, I understand that this is perhaps where the road leads. The Alliance turned the development around with massive reforms to put knowledge in focus in Swedish schools, as we also see in the results from the international measurements. Of course, both the chairman of the committee and the government know this. That is why none of the reforms carried out by the Alliance are being torn up. However, further reforms are needed to ensure that the potential of Swedish schools is really exploited and that segregation is received at the gate. That is why the School Commission was a welcome initiative, and that is why the School Commission must be treated as a whole. But why do the Social Democrats choose to break it out of the School Commission that does not fit one's own ideological agenda? Why do they choose to remove the joint queues, why do they choose to remove the active school selection that SVT with research support at the latest today stated is really needed? The attempts of the Social Democrats to play indignantly in a chamber debate fall flat and appear quite empty. The Alliance and the Left Party have been clear in committee every time we have been seen and have said that we intend to vote against this. Thus, the S+ MP does not have a majority. Or is mathematics so bad in Swedish school today?
i-5077579284a4ec5c-301	Mr President, I would like to Erik Bengtzboe from the Moderates! Of course, one can marvel at what is said in the debate. Erik Bengtzboe marvels that I say that a right-wing coalition votes against increased equality in Swedish school and at the same time involves the Left Party in it. But this is true. The Left Party is part of the right-wing coalition which now rejects an all-round social composition. However, in the previous shift, you could also hear that I said that we have good cooperation with the Left Party on, not least, budgetary issues. One can think about what we politicians say and do and so on. Let me quote what Erik Bengtzboe himself said before, namely that the School Commission is an invasive attack on people. These are big words, and it is not easy to understand Moderate and Erik Bengtzboes's view of the School Commission. How will the Moderates manage to stand up for a whole from what the School Commission has presented if they think the School Commission is an invasive attack on people? In fact, however, you in the Moderates do not stand up for such a whole. You have actively voted against all the proposals based on the School Commission's investigation. These have been about increasing equality in Swedish schools and that equivalence needs to be strengthened. We need to do it for hard and clear reasons because we know that it is the best way to keep the results of knowledge growing. Instead of looking for faults and shortcomings with the government, I think Erik Bengtzboe from the Moderates should do his homework. What have you said and done here in the debate? What proposals have the Moderates made that strengthen equality in Swedish schools?
i-5077579284a4ec5c-305	Mr President, I would like to If Matilda Ernkrans is going to go into quoting, she's going to quote right. It was the School Commission's proposal on universal social composition that I referred to and nothing else. This is another example of how the rhetoric of the Social Democrats and the government does not match reality. As little as the Left Party has become a Right Party in the last 20 minutes, the Moderates have become a party standing up for segregation. Matilda Ernkrans might try to read the suggestions made by the Moderates. She is most welcome to support them. It is about a strengthened school inspection, strengthened state sanctions and effective guarantees that all schools in Sweden will be good schools. Obviously, this will have to wait until we have a new government. This is the third change of line that the chairman of the committee finds himself in this debate in connection with her own speech. I note that, so far, she has not answered a single question. The segregation in Swedish schools is serious. The way to break the segregation in Swedish society is about delivering good knowledge. It is only when we equip children and young people with really good knowledge that they can get out of the alienation they find themselves in. So we enable social mobility, we break exclusion and we create integration. The proposal that the Social Democrats stand up for here on the ground for a comprehensive social composition is provocative enough to shift the responsibility for children's schooling to the children themselves. It is therefore not the school that should deliver and not the teachers who should provide the teaching, but the problem in Swedish school is, according to the Social Democrats, that you have the wrong students in the wrong schools. It is apparently the children who are responsible for schooling in the Swedish Social Democrats society. I find this a distressing development. The Alliance and the Left Party have been clear on the matter from the very beginning. We have said that we intend to vote against the proposal. The Swedish Democrats have a third option, which they have said they are going to vote on. The government has never had a majority in this House for its proposal. It's time for it to wake up and realize it.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-311	Mr President, I would like to It is perhaps not only the Swedish Democrats but also the Moderates who need to read and learn how proposals are handled in the Swedish parliament. They are handled wisely and on the basis of a parliamentary system, which almost always produces minority governments. Minority governments also need to get their policies through in the parliament of Sweden. This is done through various forms of cooperation. This also means that we have a system in the Swedish Parliament that calls for approval of their own proposals, and you find a majority for them. Yes, we have had a majority in favour of our proposal. There has been no collective opposition to this proposal. The collective opposition arose today in this House when the Swedish Democrats chose to leave their policy – the one announced in committee – and instead to join the Alliance's and the Left Party's proposals. This is not about rhetoric. I think we should give the debate a little bit. Erik Bengtzboe in the Moderates knows that the active school elections have been lifted because some, i.e. all bourgeois parties, were shot apart by, for example, calling it tombola. Nor is it to stand up for the School Commission's proposal as a whole. If we are going to do something about the debate, we know that the challenges we face when it comes to Swedish schools were also present when Erik Bengtzboes's party led the government. The challenges include ensuring that the results of knowledge are increased, not least among those born in Sweden but who have a parent who comes from another country. You were unable to solve this problem. This government has taken a new hold through the School Commission to find a way forward. We are trying to deal with it in this debate. It goes like that, because ideology is obviously more important than anything else when we move towards elections.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-316	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by welcoming Matilda Ernkrans's welcome to the debate on education policy. This is, after all, her first debate as chairman of the committee. It is important to both highlight and clarify differences. However, I would like to refer to what Mrs Ernkrans himself said in the line with Erik Bengtzboe about the importance of having a decent debate. I was particularly surprised by the description with which Matilda Ernkrans began her speech. She referred to a number of newspaper headlines as a guarantee of how the former alliance government had a school development focus. It was about how efforts were made under the alliance government. I would therefore like to give a history description of the major efforts made on the competence of teachers. We have heard from both social democrats and environmentalists here in Parliament that the alliance government was pursuing a completely wrong policy. When they came into government themselves, they have chosen to build on, not least, the efforts made by the Alliance government on, for example, teachers' salaries. We had career salaries linked to first teachers and lecturers, while the Social Democrats and the Green Party chose a different concept with a teacher's salary boost. Nevertheless, efforts were made on the elements dealing with teachers' opportunities to stay in the profession and develop in different ways. I am saddened by the description that we in the Alliance would say blankly no to equivalence. We don't. We had expected a more comprehensive approach to this. But the greatest effort on equivalence that can be made is to invest in teachers' skills. I'd say there's a big consensus about that. Why is the government unable to come up with a single proposal based on the School Commission's investigation, if you now think it is such a fantastic document?
i-5077579284a4ec5c-320	Mr President, I would like to I chose to refer in my speech to a number of newspaper headlines. Of course, you can consider whether it is right or wrong. What is right and wrong in this is still that what was written in the newspaper headlines was the picture, the truth, that prevailed in Sweden after eight years with a moderate-led government and Björklund as school minister. It was chaos. The PISA results and the results of knowledge declined. Teachers left school to a large extent. It was 10,000 fewer than before. I could have chosen to describe it differently. I still thought it was a good way to use newspaper headlines. Basically, however, it looked like this in Swedish school. I still find it so difficult to see not least the bourgeois parties indignant that I say that you do not stand up because there is a need for greater equality and more equality in school. At the moment, we are debating in this House in the Swedish Parliament a proposal where there are tools to increase equivalence but which you choose not to vote for. In addition, it has chosen to say no to the EUR 6 billion worth of resources that aim to strengthen equivalence each year. They have said no to Collaboration for the best school. It has said no to the government's equality money. In view of this, it is not so different from reality to describe that we find it very difficult to see how a bourgeois alliance, now together with the Swedish Democrats, takes responsibility for the parts of the School Commission's proposal that we need to have a more equal school, more mixed student composition in our classrooms and so on. So far, you've said no, no, no.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-324	Mr President, I would like to If you, as chairman of the committee, Matilda Ernkrans, want to paint it as a total chaos in the Swedish school under the alliance government, I would say that this is an extremely aggressive way of describing the reality that exists in many schools. Yes, there were schools where there was chaos. Yes, the school inspectorate got a clearer assignment. In terms of security and study, we have also taken joint initiatives. But I am very disappointed by the committee chairman's way of describing those parts. There are challenges today, and there were challenges then. When the alliance government took office, there were 143 common points that were actually also being pushed through. Those were important parts. They were based on teachers' skills, research and so on. It is quite clear that many of those proposals were very good, because they have not been torn up by the current government either. Teachers left school. Well, you do that for a number of reasons. But one reason why the number of teachers has increased is that we have more students in the Swedish school. There must be some kind of honesty in the debate about what lies behind figures that go in different directions. The teacher density has not been directly affected, but there are more teachers in the Swedish school. But that is not what the chairman of the committee wants to show. Why, then, does the government say no to the efforts that the Alliance has proposed in schools in exclusion areas, for example in the field of career teacher services? We have highlighted the importance of good competence among principals and teachers at the most vulnerable schools. We have a common picture. Let us also describe the common solutions that exist! I understand that the Social Democrats feel a degree of frustration and perhaps a degree of disappointment at how this debate developed, but to describe it as chaos in the past I find deeply dishonest.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-328	Mr President, I would like to As a social democrat, I am, of course, frustrated by the way the debate developed. But I feel particularly frustrated because I have an ambition that we will continue the development of Swedish schools where we increase the results of knowledge, where we maintain security and study in the classrooms, in the corridors, in climbing positions and wherever it can be, where we ensure that teachers go back to the profession, where we ensure that all children meet competent teachers and where we take responsibility for having a mixed student composition in our classrooms, which we know is important for raising the results of knowledge and important in a democratic society. In this first debate on education policy as chairman of the Education Committee, I am faced with a 'no' to one of the tools put forward by this government in this House on the basis of the School Commission's proposal. The proposal is that we should give responsibility to all schools, not just those who already take precedence in Sweden. There are a lot of schools that do good things. For example, I will visit Vivallaskolan at home in Örebro on Friday. There they have worked actively to ensure that high school students can make school choices at schools nearby, but not at the high school that has previously been at Vivalla School. The aim is to get a more mixed student composition. What we want is for all schools to work in this way, but with different means depending on what suits best in their own municipality and school. If it is something I feel frustrated about, it is not the debate, but that the proposals do not come forward and that a bourgeois alliance with the support of the Swedish Democrats repeatedly says no to increased equality in Swedish schools.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-331	Mr President, I would like to Every day tens of thousands of children and young people go to school in our country. Their schooling has the same goals and is governed by the same laws and regulations. The Education Act provides for the number of school days, the number of school years and the number of compulsory subjects. Yet their schooling is so different depending on where they live and sometimes depending on who their parents are. All students have the right to a good and meaningful schooling. We are now taking a concerted approach and putting forward a number of proposals in which a coherent and equal school is at the forefront. The government has left its bill, and it is on that basis that this report is being debated today. Prior to the election four years ago, one of the Environmental Party's most important election promises for the school was to convene a school commission. We looked very seriously at the falling knowledge results. A commission of prominent researchers and teachers was necessary to provide an informed basis for how to turn Sweden's results into knowledge measurements and get all schools and students involved. All Swedish schools must be good schools. That is why one of our first decisions in government was to set up a school commission where research and profession gathered together to put forward proposals for a stronger and equal school system. On the basis of the School Commission's proposal, the government has decided as a first measure on a unique strengthening of the state funding of the school. Fully expanded, it corresponds to SEK 6 billion annually. Everyone gets more, but those who need the most get the most. We are now taking the next step on the basis of the School Commission's final report and are implementing four reforms to improve the quality of all Swedish schools. Firstly, municipalities and independent school leaders will actively promote a comprehensive social composition. No one should be able to choose to work against segregation. The school politicians who are now active around the country will plan and inaugurate more schools than any others since the realization of the folk school. Then the schools should be placed so that it is natural for all children to go to the same school. There are many good examples of municipalities working like this today. But with the support of the law, we ensure that all principals do what is possible to break the segregation. Secondly, the supervision of municipal and individual authorities should be more equal. The school inspectorate shall be the supervisory authority. Thirdly, we are stepping up efforts to reduce absenteeism. Absence means serious signals that must be picked up early. An active student care team should provide support, so that the student finds his/her way back and can complete his/her studies. The law clarifies the responsibility to act when the student has unjustified absence. Fourthly, the role of the school manager will be regulated by the state. Vice-Chancellors are today alone in bearing legal responsibility for the state cases, while at the same time they are employed by a municipality or free school. Therefore, the role and responsibility of the school manager should be clarified by law. After four years in government with an environmental-partisan Minister for Education, we have taken on the major challenges facing the school in 2014. We have reversed the trend of cuts in school, and now more employees are being hired instead. The hard work of teachers and students means that Sweden's knowledge results rise in Swedish and international measurements, such as PISA. The children learn more. The biggest challenge ahead is to reduce inequality in Swedish schools. We will never accept it. If we are to continue to achieve rising results in Swedish schools, inequality must be broken. All parents and students should be able to know that their closest school is a good school. Children with different backgrounds and experiences should meet in the same classroom, and the school should be equal. With today's decision, we'll get a little bit further along the way, I thought. But that was not the case. I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservation.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-343	Mr President, I would like to Thank you to Mr Knutsson for your speech. I would ask her to use the time for clarification. We were told earlier that those who were opposed to the proposal to enter that there should be a comprehensive social composition are against equivalence and that there will now be a lack of a sharp tool to implement what the government wants. I would like a few explanations about how sharp this tool really is. Elisabet Knutsson is a representative of the Government Party, so I would like to ask her a number of questions. How sharp is the tool? What can be done with the tool that you now think we are voting away? What does the word abstinence mean? What does that mean? What factors should be taken into account? Is it parents'background or origin? Is that an ideological background? How to ensure that all pupils' social conditions are known in the municipality and at school level? Should we have some kind of record of the students' social composition? What measures will principals and others use to achieve this goal? What tools do you have at hand? How does one know that one has achieved the goal of a comprehensive social composition? How is this objective defined? How do you know you haven't reached it? What happens if you succeed? What happens if you do not succeed in this fuzzy goal?
i-5077579284a4ec5c-349	Mr President, I would like to I think it's one of Christer Nylander's absolute favourite words. There were a lot of questions at once. When you do this kind of fairly open descriptions, there is always an interpretation space. It should be comprehensive, which means that you should see it from many different directions. Schools are not the same, so you can't go in and poke and say that schools should do exactly this. But you're supposed to have a vision, and you're supposed to have a direction. . All-rounding means that you can see it from many directions. After all, we have used the word a lot in many other contexts and have a reasonably common view of it. It has to do with how you live, what your income is and what your background is. Now I missed the rest of Christer Nylander's questions, but it's clear that if we want to make the school better, we have to see each individual, and each individual is different. That's why you can't just say this is what you're supposed to do.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-353	Mr President, I would like to If you say that those who vote against this proposal oppose equivalence in Swedish schools and remove an important tool to achieve equivalence in Swedish schools, then you need to have a little more on your feet and a little clearer definition of what this proposal really means. If you can't say which social factors should be included in this and how to know which social factors concern different students, whether you should have a record of all students who are expected to go to school to ensure that each student represents a group, if you think that the main purpose of each student is to represent a group and not to represent and develop yourself, if you don't know what social composition is or when you have reached the goal or what tools you have to use, if you don't know what measures are to be put in place against the one who is not able to reach what is not yet defined, namely social composition – then it's pretty strong to say that those who vote no to this remove a sharp tool for those who want to achieve equivalence. On the part of the Alliance and the Liberals, we have a wide range of concrete, sharp proposals that increase the equivalence of Swedish schools. It is about directing resources to those who need it most, and it is about giving the chance to those who need or want to change schools to choose another school that suits them better. It is about raising the minimum level of all schools by investing in teacher education and training. It is a matter of having a clear focus on knowledge, because we know that high expectations of each student are what breaks the social bias. It involves a wide range of measures to improve the quality of each school and to be able to close down schools that do not improve quality. When it is claimed that we are opposed to equivalence in Swedish schools when we have a long series of sharp proposals that increase equivalence but vote against something that even the government's own representatives can't describe, then I think that one takes a little too much water over one's head.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-357	Mr President, I would like to I think Christer Nylander underestimates the profession. When the profession gets an opportunity to talk about general social composition, they have thoughts about what the social composition looks like in their school. I do not see this as particularly fluffy, but I think that the school has the opportunity to deal with the problems that exist in their school. That this choice of school would be something that blessed most students, if so, touches those who live in municipalities where there are many schools to choose from. But many students live in communities where there is actually only one school to choose from, and then you have to choose it. That school must therefore become a good school that works with the social composition and makes sure to pinpoint so that everyone should feel good in that school, because they have nothing else to choose from. That's why all schools have to be good schools.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-360	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Mr Knutsson, for your speech. An introductory remark: When we have had a situation for 12 years where resources per pupil have consistently increased, we may be able to stop talking nonsense about other parties making cuts to school. It would be one thing that we could agree on in Swedish politics that when resources per student increase, we do not talk about cuts at school. I have two questions for Elisabet Knutsson, Mr President. The first is about the College Commission's overall proposals. Both government representatives in the debate have stated that the School Commission needs to be treated as a whole. Nevertheless, it has actively chosen to remove certain elements of the School Commission's proposal from being dealt with in this House. Proposals put forward by the Alliance on active school elections and joint queues, which are also proposals made by the School Commission, have been chosen not to be included in the proposal they put forward. I do not quite understand why it is argued that it is important to have it collected, but the things that ideologically do not fit the left parties in the Swedish parliament are chosen to lift out. It would be interesting to have an answer to that. I also have a question about this with a comprehensive social composition. That proposal is something that has received quite a lot of criticism, among other things, from the National Agency for Education and the IFAU. It is noted that this leads to the wrong focus, that it is unclear what it really means and that there is also a great risk of discrimination linked to this. On the other hand, the Commission is clear that this would lead to the abolition of free school elections in high school and that it would be one of the advantages. The municipality will then have the opportunity to place pupils in upper secondary schools without them being free to choose which upper secondary school to attend. It is quite a big change that I think a lot of Swedish young people and parents would like to be informed about before voting on something similar in this House. Why is it that the government did not highlight this as an example when it actually pushes for this change?
i-5077579284a4ec5c-367	Mr President, I would like to When talking about the School Commission as a whole – and we have also talked about this – broad agreements are important. That is why we have discussed with the Alliance many different issues with regard to the School Commission's proposals. For us, it is important that we highlight first and foremost what we agree on and where we can achieve it. No one can but regret that we have not been able to agree to make a full proposal of this. But there are several issues on which we have not agreed. That is why we highlight the issues where we have believed that we have a common solution. Sorry, Erik Bengtzboe, but I forgot your second question.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-370	Mr President, I would like to Then I'll make sure to repeat it. First of all, let me just make it clear that it is the government that has chosen to lift things out of the School Commission – things that would have had a majority in this House. Instead, we have moved on with proposals for which we do not even have the support of the Left Party. Now, as representatives of the government are indignant in this House, they say: I thought we were going to get through this, but all of a sudden the conditions have changed! The government, consisting of S and MP, has stood alone against the Alliance and the Left Party all the time. In fact, there has never ever been a majority in favour of this. I do not really understand where it was thought that a majority would be found anywhere, if one had not under hand assumed that the Swedish Democrats, when their proposals have fallen, would vote on the government's proposal even though they had a proposal of their own. However, Matilda Ernkrans, who is the chairman of the committee, stated that this is absolutely not done in this House and that it is not an acceptable course of work. My second question concerned precisely this with a comprehensive social composition. The School Commission notes that this gives municipalities the opportunity to completely suspend the free choice of upper secondary school and that this is also one of the ideas behind the proposal. Why does the government not pride itself and stand up for putting forward a proposal that will lead to the abolition of free school elections in high school if that is actually what it is proposing? Then at least you have to stand by it and argue for it and not pretend that that is not the case.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-374	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to not being allowed to make their choices in high school, I can say that not all municipalities have all the upper secondary school programmes, and there you have the opportunity to choose where you want to go. I can't imagine that the municipalities will make some tough demands that all students have to choose the municipality's upper secondary school.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-376	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Knutsson, for your speech. I have a couple of questions that I would like to ask about that. As I understood it, and if I heard correctly, Elisabet Knutsson said that one of the most important electoral promises was to appoint a school commission. I think it rhymes pretty bad with the hundred days. I do not mean to ralli when I say that Fridolin promised to reverse developments in a hundred days, but I would like to hear what reforms Elisabet Knutsson now thinks after four years have been the most important and what one would have to do. I regret that the current government has not come up with anything linked to the school elections. In a previous change of line, Elisabet Knutsson was clear that you need several different schools to be able to choose. Sometimes it has been said that if there is only one school to choose, there is not much to choose. But when it comes to the municipalities that have tried active school choices – both urban and rural – my experience from the rural community is that there are even schools in the countryside that attract the city's pupils. This also allows you to take the school bus out to school in the country. I am surprised that this area is not being highlighted any more because the Government belongs to the Green Party, and I would say that there is a large majority in favour of freedom of choice in Swedish schools being an important part. Why, then, is it not a priority? Instead, social composition is chosen. Both Elisabet Knutsson and I have extensive experience of the Swedish school. We know how it works when you put classes together in different ways. You know many times the students, and you make compositions that you think will work. It is not always just about increasing gender equality but about increasing students' learning as much as possible. For enough it must be the biggest challenge – that all students get the chance to reach as far as possible?
i-5077579284a4ec5c-381	Mr President, I would like to In many places a general social withdrawal is indeed made. Let us take the high school in Nyköping as an example. There is only one secondary school, and they quota into each class so that each class becomes a Mininyköping. I find that interesting. There is indeed a general social composition with young people from all over the city who meet in each class. This has meant that the high school in Nyköping has increased its merit points and got a much calmer climate at the school. Young people meet across borders. We are not making any proposals on the electoral system for the various schools. That's because it's such an incredibly complex issue. It has been discussed, and we have also discussed it with you in the Alliance. But it is difficult to find a really good system that benefits all young people and makes everyone have a choice. I think it is better to put forward a well-thought-out proposal than just to push something forward.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-384	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Knutsson, for your answer! Let me make a few comments. Elisabet Knutsson talks about mixing the whole city – hopefully also the countryside – in Nyköping in a single school. It doesn't feel like an ideal for me. The opportunity to choose is also about other things. IFAU has carried out studies where it is seen that in the long term it does not benefit the development of knowledge when the municipality has only one school that everyone should go to. It is better when there is an option and several different schools. It is not always the case that the big school is the one that suits all students and makes them feel comfortable in different ways. It is better that there is an option; I see that as a center party as an extremely important part. Unfortunately, I feel that there is uncertainty linked to the political compass, in which Elisabet Knutsson feels that there is no way to find a proposal which is the best proposal and that there is therefore no proposal at all. This logic tends to lead to the best becoming the enemy of the good. We now see that active school elections are really positive in so many municipalities. Yet you do not dare to move on, but simply say: We have talked with the parties in the Alliance. It would have been good if there had been an ambition from government parties and, of course, from government representatives to more than talk. It would have been good if you had put forward concrete proposals so that we had something to take a stand on. Then there would have been a greater chance of achieving a greater consensus. We could have had a discussion that leads somewhere instead of this conversation, which is, in itself, nice but perhaps does not lead to anything clear. Why is the government unable to come forward with a proposal that would further promote quality? Instead, you are putting forward a proposal that actually does not make any difference in reality.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-389	Mr President, I would like to If you think this is a proposal that makes no difference in reality, I do not understand why you make so much noise about it. It is in itself sad if you think so. As far as the choices in Nyköping are concerned, there are certainly those. There are other schools than this secondary school, but there is only one secondary school that is municipally driven, and that is what has been done in this way.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-392	Mr President, I would like to We shall now turn to the debate on the SfU24 report, Karen's deduction – a more fair deductible. I would like to begin by saying that we both agree with our reservations in this report, but for the time to be won on the vote, I choose to vote in favour only of reservation 2. The Swedish Democrats believe that it is basically a good proposal to replace the Karen Day with a statutory withdrawal. It will mean a fairer system and not affect people differently, for example, depending on the length of the working day. I am not going to go into the details of the proposal, but they are to be read in the report. Perhaps the next speaker will go into more detail. We are fundamentally behind the bill, but we have two reservations. One of them is that the Swedish Democrats have for a long time had the view that the previous Karen Day should be completely abolished for particularly vulnerable health professionals, employees in preschool and some teachers and leisure teachers in primary school. We stand by that line while we support the Government's proposal to move from the withdrawal date to the withdrawal period for all professions except self-employed workers. Mr President, I would like to We believe that in workplaces where there is a constant risk to the health and well-being of patients, children and staff in daily work, and where recurrent infectious diseases cannot be avoided, staff should not be financially affected by sick leave. The aim of our proposal is also to prevent the spread of infection from staff to sensitive care recipients and children in school and childcare. This concerns on the one hand employed health professionals who work with particularly sensitive patients, such as very sensitive elderly people, and on the other hand health professionals in workplaces with a high risk of infection such as infection clinics and emergency departments. School and childcare workers in certain age groups and departments are also at greater risk of becoming ill than other school staff. The Swedish Democrats therefore believe that the government should investigate and come back with proposals on how to design rules on withdrawals so that at best these professions will not receive any withdrawals at all or at least receive more favourable provisions regardless of whether there are collective agreements in place or not. In this report, the Committee on Social Affairs believes that special provisions for certain professions would constitute an unfair system. However, I believe that these professions are exposed to risks that are not done in other professions, and that is why I believe that it would be more unfair not to have these specific provisions because it is part of their job to expose themselves to risks of infection. The benefits of leaving staff at home without a withdrawal or with more favourable provisions after infection are several, not least from a patient safety perspective because patients should be able to be sure to be received by healthy staff. It is also devastating if the risk of being infected and then personally affected financially by health professionals makes it even more difficult to recruit health workers. We already have a major healthcare crisis in Sweden, and nurses work in other industries due to low wages and other unfavourable conditions. So this is really important. If these people aren't there and take the risk of being exposed, who's going to do it? We politicians must create the best conditions for staff in these professions. Mr President, I would like to Anyone who has children of pre-school age, which I also have, certainly recognizes a daily life that is regularly lined with colds and influences. Preschools, where many children are gathered on a small surface, are known to be at risk of infection. Just as it goes without saying that preschool does not accept that sick children are allowed to participate in the business – we parents have a responsibility not to send our sick children to preschool – it is also obvious to us that children should not have to be at a preschool where the educators are ill because it involves such a great financial risk for them to be at home with withdrawals on withdrawals, as it is now. We believe that it is unreasonable for preschool staff to suffer financially because they take the great responsibility to take care of our children in preschool so that we can work, for example as I do when I stand here today and talk even though I have children at home. They take this great responsibility and then also expose themselves to the risk of infection, and I do not think that it is unfair for them to have special provisions. They deserve it. This will of course mean an increased cost for municipalities and county councils – they are already a little worried about increased costs with this bill. In order to meet this, we also propose a notice on an incentive grant to municipalities and county councils. We also have some questions and concerns about how to calculate the withdrawal in a fair way during irregular working hours and want to see a proper follow-up of this after two years. It is good that the committee also sees the risks, and we assume that such a follow-up will be carried out. I very much hope that this will happen.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-404	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the Karen deduction report to be approved – a more fair deductible. This proposal is an amendment by removing the current withdrawal date and replacing it with withdrawals instead. In the media, headlines have given the picture of the withdrawal of the carer, but this is not the case. We have had the current system of deductibles in the form of a Karen's Day since 1993. Since then, we have seen that the provision has had increasingly different and unfair effects on different people. The question is also highlighted in the parliamentary social security inquiry. The consultation round on this matter also showed that the proposal is well received by both workers' organisations and employers' organisations. That is a welcome proposal. Many will not notice any difference economically. For the majority of workers, the withdrawal will be the same as today's withdrawal day. Those affected by the proposed amendments are a number of occupational groups who have the same understanding that they do not have an eight-to-five job. Some have very long working hours, some work days, some work only night and others work shifts. It is about unevenly distributed working hours, uncomfortable working hours and night work. These people are in safety and security, such as all our bluelight personnel. They can be found in surveillance in industries and in many other workplaces. Of course, a large proportion are in healthcare, in care for the elderly and in care for the disabled. Therefore, many women are also affected. It concerns all those who make our society walk around, even in the dark hours of the night. For those working in these round-the-clock industries, today's car-day construction has meant an unfairly large deduction, depending on the schedule they had when they got sick. The proposal is for the withdrawal to be equal to approximately 20% of a sick pay if calculated in an average week. A detailed calculation of the amount of the withdrawal shall be determined by collective agreement. We will certainly see different designs in the future because it applies to all possible working hours and schedules. But the common thing is to make the withdrawal more fair. I am pleased that there is agreement on the proposal. It will make a big difference for these professions. Mr President, I would like to This speech is going to be rather short, but I think it has become clear that a change from Karen's day to Karen's deduction will make it more fair between professionals, between those who are constantly working day and those who are working on awkward and strange working hours. The proposal is proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2019. It gives the parties time to negotiate collective agreements in this area. Försäkringskassan and Tillväxtverket have the task of informing about the new regulations. But they will also follow up on the consequences of the proposal. It is also in the nature of the matter that workers' organisations and employers' organisations will follow up. And they will point to any problems with the system for us.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-413	Mr President, I would like to This is a matter that is a little more close to my heart. Already in 2011 I wrote about this problem on my own blog, about the injustice between those who may work 15 shifts in a month and those who have normal working hours with 22 working days. The background was that I had talked to people who worked night in health care, for example, and I saw that they were severely affected financially by Karen's Day in case of illness. Several trade unions have also pushed this issue over the years. In October 2012, I became a member of the then ongoing Parliamentary Social Security Investigation, which was set up by the Alliance. One of the questions I had to ask was to exchange Karen's Day for withdrawals. And since there were more votes to change, the investigation finally agreed on this. It also became one of the proposals in our final report, which we submitted to the government in January 2015. Since the presentation of the investigation, the Moderates have pushed the issue of withdrawals. Unfortunately, however, the government has done little about this or any other sensible proposal in the major social security inquiry. Only on 1 March this year, more than three years after the presentation of the investigation, did the Riksdag receive the bill from the Government. It contains a proposal which is identical to the study's proposal on withdrawals. It is a little strange that it would take such time. It is also strange, as I said, that the wording is identical to that contained in the proposal of the investigation. But at least this is a welcome change for those who work night in health care or in other professions where you work longer but fewer hours. It is perhaps also a small piece of the puzzle to make the professions slightly more attractive. However, I am a little surprised when I read both the bill and the report. It says that the proposal for a withdrawal is based on an agreement between the Government and the Left Party. A working group within the Ministry of Social Affairs has reviewed the construction of the Karen Day and instead proposed withdrawals. It's a strange story. This proposal is therefore based entirely on a unanimous social security inquiry involving all eight parliamentary parties. It is also strange that the government set up another investigation that looked at exactly the same thing that the Social Insurance investigation had just looked at. It then proposed exactly the same solution, word for word, as was suggested in the study's proposal. It therefore delayed the proposal for three years. When I hear Kerstin Nilsson from the Social Democrats speaking, I understand that we are in complete agreement on the matter. She talks about how important this is, especially for women working in health care. So it took three years from the final report of the investigation to the minister responsible until the government made a proposal, which was ready, served and ready in the investigation. Actually, it's kind of strange. It took me seven years to raise this issue in social media myself for the first time until the proposal became a reality and came to Parliament for consideration. You can't be in a hurry as a politician. It still feels good to have been part of the change, all the way from the investigation to today. On behalf of the Moderates, I support the proposal contained in the report.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-426	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to debate report KrU9 A municipal school of culture for the future. I agree with all the reservations of the Moderates, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 5. This is an important issue. It is about the right of all children and young people to culture. It was and is the Alliance's main cultural policy priority. We introduced Creative School to inspire and support schools to resort to culture to stimulate pupils' learning. We gradually expanded it into several stages of school, and we wish to develop it further. We made sure that the museums had free entrance for everyone up to 18 years old, strengthened the possibilities for museums to receive more children and made sure that the children who came to the museums got better reception in the business. When the Cultural Co-operation Model was introduced, the Alliance Government was keen to give priority to children and young people in the discussion of where the money would go. Mr President, I would like to Having said that, I do not believe that the current government does not want to see the best interests of children and young people, but one cannot prioritise everything to everyone at all times and also control things that cannot and should not be ruled over. I would like to welcome the Minister for Culture to the debate. She's been reported. But we'll see if she shows up and prioritises children and young people in culture. If she participates in the debate, we will certainly hear her talk about all the instruments she had to play in the cultural school she attended when she was young. And I guess it's a good thing she had the opportunity to do it. The problem today is that there are too many children who are not allowed to play a single instrument in the municipal cultural school or attend a single dance class, as the queues in the vast majority of municipalities are far too long. Regrettably, we will not be able to hear the Minister for Culture or any other representative of the Government in the debate. The big problem with the municipal school of culture is the poor accessibility. It could very easily be used by other cultural organisers to address this problem. There are good examples of this, but they are far too few. There are so many civil society organisers. It is about churches, which organise singing and instrument education, theatre ensembles and, not least, dance studios, which have many students but are not counted according to the government's way of seeing it. That was one problem, Mr President. The second problem that needs to be solved for the cultural school is those children whose parents cannot afford the tuition fee. I would like to see some suggestions for solutions to this problem included in the speech by the Minister for Culture. I hope she doesn't disappoint us. Instead of solving the major problems with the cultural school, however, the government chooses to make it even more difficult for the voluntary municipal school of culture. It proposes national targets, and instead of facilitating and increasing accessibility, it directs the activities of municipalities, including those that do not have a cultural school. What will happen to them? What will the national targets mean for those municipalities that do not have a municipal cultural school? I would like the Minister for Culture to respond to that. As a moderate, we in the Alliance and I believe that today's model where the cultural school is the municipalities' voluntary responsibility should remain unengraved. Government objectives are governance, and we do not believe that this governance is helpful for the municipalities, but vice versa. Moreover, this is not the only governing measure that the government is engaged in in this area. The model of cultural cooperation has already been rounded up and a government contribution has been made to cultural schools with directives governing them. The Committee on Culture heard yesterday, when we had a visit from the national coordinator in the field of libraries, that the targeted contribution to libraries has meant that municipalities are now applying to the Swedish Arts Council for grants to buy bookshelves. That's crazy! It is just as crazy as the direct contribution to the cultural school. The government's first draft said that the grant would go to lower the fees, which meant that municipalities with the highest fees – including rich municipalities in the Stockholm area – could take part in the grant, while municipalities that had already removed the fee were without support. If the government wants to support municipalities and cultural schools to improve children and young people, I have already mentioned two measures that can be taken, and I now come to the third measure, namely the proposed cultural school centre. The Swedish Arts Council could then be given the task of designing support that will benefit the municipalities. Research and development on children's and young people's access to culture in their free time is important. There are good examples of professional organisations that take such a task very seriously and do so in the best way, such as the Swedish Sports Federation and Friluftsfrämjandet. Why does the government not trust the industry and place the mission on the Unsorted Trade Council of Culture? Mr President, I would like to I have asked three questions in my speech: how are we going to solve the queues for the cultural school? How will all children be given the money to attend cultural school? Why doesn't the government trust the Culture School Council?
i-5077579284a4ec5c-443	Mr President, I would like to It was summer and camp, and there was a special atmosphere and warm fellowship in the air. It was a program with both practice sessions and socializing, playing in group and in full class, with a concert in sight. It was practice after school and homework, fine-tuning that string and tangled that piece. The lesson approached when you finally got to paste a gold star in front of the first row of notes as proof that you learned the piece and could approach the next piece of the book. It was the thumbed booklet of Christmas carols that was picked up every year for the Christmas concert in the church. It was joy, trial and education. This combined was the music school of a person who today is a cultural political spokesperson. This is still the culture school for new generations around our country. A culture school for the future requires self-esteem on its own grounds, arm's length distance and a culture tradition in focus. The organisation will be built by a competence-developing infrastructure. Music will be built out of joy, which in turn is built by educators in a caring working environment, which in turn is grown by a solid teacher education. A culture school for the future therefore calls for reservations 1 and 4 in the report, to which I call for approval. We Swedish democrats are behind all our reservations, but for time-winning I only call for their approval. What are Sweden's music and culture schools, and against what goal will they develop? I mean first of all that it is important to establish that they are and should be a municipal matter. This certainly also states the government, but in the next pen draft it outlines objectives based on the national cultural policy objectives and establishes a unit of the State Authority's Cultural Council to distribute a state grant to be given by the state specific measures and followed up by the state. The State will also act as a research and networking centre for the development of the country's cultural schools. Finally, how the municipal question is capable of being discussed. The issue, however, is of national interest. The music and culture school is popularly established and plays a role in Swedish music envy and for generational changes in orchestral life. There is therefore a value in some form of national guidelines and targets to achieve higher equivalence and quality even where activities are lacking or need to be developed. At the same time, we can note that the Government's proposal for a national goal for the School of Music and Culture is based on the national cultural policy objectives, for which the SD does not support, but has proposed new and more ambitious targets. We also note that we are not alone in this, but that several consultation bodies have submitted proposals for alternative target formulations. Mr President, I would like to Should the state finance the municipal music and cultural schools with funds for grants and development, and if so how? We believe that this should be based on two decisions. The first is a review that identifies which government grants are justified in the long term and how the distribution of grants should look and be administered. The second is the need and proven experience; it is the earmarking of disadvantaged, costly and sub-priority areas for municipalities. The government pours out SEK 100 million over the country without indicating any direction. Among other things, they should be used to reduce fees. High fees are not a general problem of accessibility, but lack of premises, lack of access to loan instruments and lack of working environment are problems. Needs must be valued and controlled. General means without goals and direction are, in our opinion, misplaced. The Swedish Democrats agree that networks can be strengthened and that statistical collection and research can be refined and developed. Music and culture schools around the country can be coordinated and strengthened jointly through this. However, we do not sign up to the government's way of dealing with it by inventing the wheel a second time and partly pulling the carpet away for a functioning actor. We propose that the national cultural school centre that the Swedish Arts Council has been tasked with setting up should only distribute the state grants and subsidies and that the Swedish Arts School Council, which already has an established network function and infrastructure for this, should take on the remaining tasks and develop its activities and role. It is better to build on tried and tested foundations and well-murdered mechanisms than to stack new ones without meaning. There is no question of the government wanting to change the music and culture school from the teaching institution to the employment arena through its ideological glasses. It may be considered to make available and, as it is so beautifully expressed, include. Children and young people who want to develop their skills further in different forms of cultural expression in their free time have a great opportunity to do so within the municipal music and culture school. In our opinion, the focus of the music and cultural school should be precisely on education and development in front of an effort to involve as many people as possible for the sake of the cause and to increase, as we mean, the cohesion of society as a whole. The latter is by definition primarily a task for compulsory school, where everyone goes and where we want to see greater responsibility for cohesion. It is important to keep in mind that some people go to music and culture schools and that everyone goes to the compulsory school. Many study individually in museums and cultural schools. In compulsory school, you study in a group. The Music and Culture School is voluntary and should be so. Compulsory schooling is mandatory. These are important and crucial differences. Although the intention is good and it can be achieved at local level to some extent, the task that the government wants must be entrusted to the compulsory school, which reaches everyone. The School of Music and Culture must retain its own soul and identity and be a place where self-worth does not lie in attracting as many people as possible, in all situations, by lowering thresholds and toning down the focus and priority of activities. It should be just an oasis for those who want to learn and for those who want to develop their musical ability or other cultural abilities. However, it should be equal opportunities and conditions once you go there. Mr President, I would like to We Swedish democrats once again prove in our follow-up motion on this report that we are the party with understanding and respect for traditional and established cultural and educational institutions. We refine and refine where the government dismantles and reboots. Conservativeism meets socialism, and stewardship resists government-led transformation.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-456	Mr President, I would like to I want to tell you about a boy who, when he was in middle school, didn't like his school. He was easy to learn, but there was no merit among his classmates. No, being a schoolhorse wasn't very popular. But something he enjoyed was when he was allowed to leave the class for half an hour to play with his teacher from the school of culture. When he lived in the countryside and went to a small school in the neighbouring village, it was the only opportunity to have access to the cultural school's offerings. Getting to the main town a few miles away didn't work. Playing after school was not an option either, as the school bus would already have gone home. The municipality, which has many rural schools, instead chose to offer cultural school activities during school hours, so that all pupils in the municipality's schools could have the chance to take part in the cultural school's offering. In any case, the teacher from the cultural school saw the boy's potential and encouraged him to apply to a music class at a school located in the municipality's capital. It was nothing that neither the boy nor his parents had thought of. But, said and done, the application was submitted, practical tests were done and he got to start in the music class. Quickly he made friends in the new class. They had a common interest in music. And it was no longer pointed out or shameful to be good on the other subjects as well. The boy liked it, got good grades and moved on to upper secondary school studies. It was not continued music studies, as one might have thought. No, natural knowledge and then university education in economics and engineering became the way. But the music was also at the university. New friends and acquaintances were found in different bands and orchestras connected to the university. Music and the creativity it creates have helped the boy, who has now become a young man, through life choices so far in life and will surely do so in the future. What, then, can we learn from this real - life story? Yes, one thing is that you don't have to have ambitions or dreams of a professional career in music to benefit from the time in the cultural school or the ability to play an instrument. It is important to make room for those who have the talent and enthusiasm to bet against a professional career. But just as important is the one who will bring the music along through life alongside other choices for the future. And it's not just about the music. It's about cultural expressions in general. That is why the breadth of cultural schools is so important, not least for individuals but also for society's creativity on so many levels. There is no contradiction between lace and width. Rather, they are each other's prerequisites. Had not the boy in my story had the opportunity to impaled his musical skills during high school, he might not have moved on with his other dreams either. And among the classmates from the high school music class, there are those who are today investing in a professional career – in both music and dance. An important conclusion is also: When it comes to early teaching children and young people that their creativity is important, the cultural school is a valuable resource. It is a resource that must be made available on the basis of local conditions. From the Center Party we therefore want to press for cultural school activities for children and young people to be available in all municipalities. On the other hand, how the business is set up, how it is run and what it should contain must be determined on the basis of local conditions. It is, of course, important that accessibility is good and that account is taken of the fact that not all children have financially resourceful parents. Mr President, I would like to Access to a broad cultural life throughout the country is very important to us in the Center Party – yes, it is absolutely essential. It is also in the municipalities that you best know how to develop the close and local cultural life, such as the cultural school. But with targeted government subsidies, which the government advocates, more government governance also follows. Instead, it is clear to us in the Center Party that it is the municipalities themselves that know best how to run the business, not the state or Alice Bah Kuhnke. She might have been able to answer that if she had been in the Chamber today. She's on the list of speakers. The School of Culture is a municipal activity. We do not want a government policy that risks destroying, for example, good associations locally or a policy that is not adapted to the conditions even in smaller towns. In the bill, the government does not propose any nationalisation of municipal cultural schools, but it does propose a state objective and four sub-objectives for the operation. It is linked to targeted government grants. The Government's proposal for targets and state grants risks transferring power over the activities of cultural schools from the municipalities to an authority and government decision in Stockholm. A large number of consultation bodies have also expressed concerns about increased detailed management of activities. It's a concern that I share. The fact that the state can, on the other hand, offer support for research into cultural school activities is not unreasonable. It is a horizontal issue in which the state should take part in the responsibility. But it is an assignment that could be given to, for example, the Council of Culture Schools, which is a politically independent collaboration organisation at municipal level. The Swedish Arts Council is already doing in part what the government is proposing that a cultural school centre at the Swedish Arts Council should do. Mr President, I would like to Culture school is a municipal activity and should remain so. From the Center Party we do not want a government policy that risks breaking out good activities locally or that is not adapted to the conditions even in smaller towns. I want to push it. How the business is organised must be determined on the basis of local conditions. The Swedish municipalities are different and have chosen different solutions for their cultural schools. Differences are basically a wealth and not a problem. The decentralisation of the cultural school is also its strength. The Center Party is working to ensure that everyone has access to a broad cultural life regardless of where they live in the country and the background and economic situation they have and regardless of their functional conditions. The culture is inalienable and should be accessible to everyone, as well as the municipal cultural school. With that, Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that I support all the reservations supported by the Center Party, but I choose here to ask for the approval of reservation 1 only and to refer to the particular opinion that we support.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-475	Mr President, I would like to It feels really good to be here today and to decide on a national strategy for the cultural school. It is one of the largest cultural activities targeted specifically at children and young people in our country. Many of those who today make a living professionally in the cultural sector have in recent years started their course in the municipal cultural school, or in the municipal music school as it was often called earlier. Even more are those who for a few years had a relationship with the music, who learned to perform in front of the audience and who discovered that training makes perfect. These are experiences that have developed them as individuals and taught them lessons for life. In a debate about the cultural school a few weeks ago, to which we were invited by the Swedish Arts Council, it emerged that all eight party representatives had been students in the music school at some time in their lives. If it has made us better cultural politicians, I leave it unsaid, but everyone could at least testify that it has been very rewarding for them in different ways. As a left-wing party, I am confident that municipalities around the country are doing their best to maintain a good quality of the cultural school and that there is a great deal of commitment among teachers in the activities. Today's debate on a national support system for the cultural school should in no way be interpreted as a dissatisfaction with the municipalities as principals, not on the part of the Left Party in any case. Rather, it is the knowledge of how important the cultural school is both for the individual and for national cultural life that makes it appropriate for the parliament and government to take an interest in the issue. During this term of office, the Left Party, together with the Government, has provided money to enable municipalities to reduce their fees and in other ways enable more young people to take part in the activities. In the long term, the Left Party strives for us to have a completely free cultural school throughout the country. We have also, together with the Government, decided on a cultural school life that will provide more educated teachers, continuing education to active and greater knowledge in society about the possibility of becoming a cultural school teacher. Next year it is expected that 40 million will go to that venture. Now we see that it is time for the next step in this development that we have started during our term of office. It is important that we have an objective for national cultural school policy. It clarifies what I said about the fact that we are not looking to take responsibility and authority from the municipalities but to be even clearer about what the role of the state should be, namely promotion and support. The state will help disseminate research results, collect statistics, be responsible for staff supply opportunities and have financial resources for those municipalities that want to further increase the availability and quality of their activities. It's very clearly delimited. A national cultural school centre can be the hub that many cultural schools demand. Therefore, I am somewhat surprised when several of the bourgeois parties want some of these tasks to be carried out by the association of cultural schools called the Council of Cultural Schools. The idea is perhaps good if it is a desire for increased influence and self-government, but the more boring if it is seen as a way of saving money. But the most important objection to the proposal of the bourgeois parties is that there is no desire from the organization itself. It is not something they have put forward in consultation or otherwise. Rather, representatives I have encountered as a problem if they were to be responsible, in particular, for allocating State resources to their member organisations. It makes for discontent and division if you get the double roles, you mean. I also think it is a good thing that the organisation can retain a free role as an opinion-maker and a pressurer on cultural school issues vis-à-vis the parliament and government. Another objection presented in some of the movements of the bourgeois parties is that a national goal would threaten the diversity of cultural schools. I find it very difficult to see whether there is a will from the state, as it says in the bill, I think it is a reasonable goal to set up. If there is a single cultural school that has an activity that is not about those things, this goal will not govern them in any way. They have their very different goals, whatever they might be, set by their local politicians. Then they probably don't care about applying for government grants aimed at those objectives either. So are I and the Left Party completely satisfied with the government proposal? Well, we have written a motion that we would like the Riksdag to say yes to today. It's an executive training. We would like the state to take responsibility more clearly for the fact that there is a management education for the cultural school. The reply from the Committee on Culture highlights the fact that there is an ongoing survey of the need for higher education relevant to the municipal cultural school. It started in February and will last for almost three years. It doesn't feel entirely satisfactory, I have to say. Already when the government and the Left Party agreed on the money for the Culture School Centre for 2018, it was established that there was a great need for further education, supplementary education and targeted education for the cultural school. In some cases it is good to hurry slowly. But here it is supposed to be a workshop for the money relatively fast, and then we must not leave the leadership side by side, says the Left Party. Mr President, I would like to This weekend the National Association of Young Musicians celebrated their festival Music Room in Västerås. This festival now had its tenth anniversary in Västerås, and it celebrated its 40th anniversary as an organisation. I was like a local politician when it was discussed whether we would support the association's ambitious arrangements and get it to Västerås, and then both the majority and opposition could agree to welcome them. I can see that it has become a very dear feature of the cityscape when they fill the streets on the spring edge with their instruments. Last Friday I had the privilege of meeting the association's representatives and hearing both orchestras and choirs. Many just came from cultural schools throughout the country. For a few days they have the opportunity to compete, practice and socialize with each other. Indeed, I met happy and exuberant youths. I hope that with the efforts made in this parliamentary term together with the government and the supporting national policy that we are going to decide on here today, we will be able to give more young people that exuberant feeling that I saw this weekend. It is about that more people get to experience gaming joy and community and get to feel the pride of mastering an instrument, their singing voice or an artistic expression within, for example, film, theatre, dance or image. That is why I would like to support the committee's proposal in all its parts, except in paragraph 3, where I agree with our reservation, No 3.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-493	Mr President, I would like to I agree with all the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservation No 7. The Swedish cultural school is unique in its kind. It has been for many years, and it has raised a large number of amazing musicians. One of them, Karl Martin Sandberg, aka Max Martin, started playing French horn and trumpet at the municipal music school after watching the school orchestra perform. He thought the instruments were shining so nicely. Today Max Martin is one of the world's most famous and established musicians and songwriters. Somewhere the great Swedish musicians have started. Most of them have started in the municipal music school, as it was previously called. Many have gone through it and developed from a tentative start to becoming skilled instrumentalists. They have also happy many parents and others who have been to various playbacks and concerts. For the municipalities it is a pride to have a really good and functioning cultural school. It's also a municipal matter. This is where the government's proposal to introduce government targets risks increasing the government's governance of cultural schools in the long term. The Government believes, among other things, that a national goal underlines the cultural school's attachment to both cultural policy and education policy. A State case is by definition a governing case. The distance of arm's length should apply between politics and activities, but here much of the power is transferred from the municipalities to Stockholm. This involves certain risks, even if the state should not waive its responsibilities. One can easily see that the SEK 100 million that goes to cultural schools each year is closely linked to the government's real desire to increase its governance. The government's view is that it is reasonable that the state, which since 2016 has contributed 100 million each year to the cultural schools, has the right to set targets for what it wants to achieve with its grant to the cultural school. Anyone will be happy for a bag of 100 million, but now they will be distributed to 290 municipalities or to those who apply for grants from the National Council for Culture. The Christian Democrats have a proposal for a leisure allowance– I have mentioned it before. Many families do not have money and therefore cannot afford to send their children to cultural school. The average tuition fee is SEK 650. It may sound like a waste of money to some, but to others it is a very high sum. They just can't afford it. It may be that parents open the envelope, but when they read what the letter is about, they do not show it to the children. They have such a weak economic situation. The Christian Democrats, together with the Alliance, introduced leisure money. The proposal meant that families who had lived with subsistence support for six months during the last twelve-month period could apply for support. The child is allowed to attend grades 4 - 9. The application is made in social services, but it is not an indication. You can get 3 000 SEK for the tea rmin fee, which can be 650 SEK. The money can be used for membership fees in the sports association or for relevant equipment in different contexts. Those who do not like the proposal from the government, from the left, talk about general welfare. If I had a change of line with someone from the government, I'd be told about the general welfare, that everyone would be included, that everyone would have a share of the welfare. That's great, isn't it? These people who live in weak economic conditions do not come to cultural schools in the way we would like them to. Therefore, the leisure money of SEK 3 000 is accurate. We Christian Democrats will work for the introduction of leisure money in a possible new bourgeois government from September. Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats support the idea of a national cultural school centre with the task of disseminating research and supporting municipalities in their educational and development needs. But we are not sure that the National Council for Culture is the optimal location. The Cultural School Council is a politically independent collaboration organisation at municipal level. It may be an alternative, and we Christian Democrats want to look at that issue. It is positive that the government highlights the interaction between the cultural school and other actors, but we think that the government could be clearer. There are examples from religious communities, public education and private companies that can be involved. Mr President, I would like to Great efforts are made throughout the country's cultural schools by dedicated teachers, but also by parents who support and encourage their children to continue playing, dancing or doing theatre. In the best municipalities, it has been understood that students should be able to learn on, for example, an instrument when it best suits them. It is not reasonable that a municipal cultural school should be run in children's and young people's free time. Children who have several miles to school should first go home and then get back to school again. I could cite examples. If you live two and a half miles from school, you do not go home first and then go back to play on an instrument. It doesn't work that way. But with the kulturing school inquiry in the back, some municipalities have decided that this should be the case – you should play in your spare time. But in the best municipalities – and there are a large number of them – you can go from 20 or 30 minutes, as Per Lodenius was at, to play or do something in the aesthetic field. There is a concern in Kulturskolesverige about what is found from government, and that concern should be taken seriously. It is good to increase the skills of teachers so that, if needed, they can gain an even greater insight into how to work with different children and young people. The pupils with disabilities who come to the cultural school need special competence from the teacher to understand and encourage in the right way. Skills increase is good. I would like to finish with Västervik Cultural School's vision. I'm not from that area myself, but when I saw it, I thought it was so good. I thought the vision was nice: We are going to be a window in time – A place where the young people of Västervik can discover their own and others' talent and develop it in the best way. This takes place in a rich interaction between experience, own creation, encounters with others in different aesthetic forms of expression! ..................................................... It's beautiful, and it's municipal!
i-5077579284a4ec5c-510	Mr President, I would like to Roland Utbolt from the Christian Democrats often raises the issue of leisure money. I thought we could therefore have a discussion about it. I don't think the extracurricular money is a bad idea. It was in a variant in the municipality I myself worked in as a municipal politician. But I would object to it being accurate. Unfortunately, it is not, and that is why there is great reason to re-prioritise the Left Party and the Government on the issues. Let us look at the organisation that works a lot to identify child poverty and children living in financial vulnerability. Save the Children believes that many children do not exist in social services. Parents do not have income support, but the family has very low incomes. They are doing just fine, precisely because they do not have extra activities for the children and really keep the economy to a minimum. These children end up completely outside the leisure money reform that Roland Utbolt speaks out for. I hear Roland Utbolt's commitment to those children who are not allowed to take part in leisure activities. Whether it is sports or cultural issues that we are discussing, this issue comes up. I feel that you have a genuine desire to reach these children, but I think you should think about what we talked about in terms of a general initiative. It is of course better for self-esteem to report your child to a free business than to have to ask social services for a sum of money. Isn't it good the way we do? The Left Party and the Government say that we should work to remove the fees so that it is free for all children to sign up for the cultural school. Is it not much better than simply ensuring that those who live on subsistence support can receive a contribution to the fee through leisure allowances?
i-5077579284a4ec5c-514	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Vasiliki Tsouplaki, for asking the question! I have felt when we have discussed the issue before that we are on speaking terms. It's not a bad idea, you say. Maybe you could even say that it's a good idea, this leisure money thing. As far as accuracy is concerned, I can see that what we are proposing, that is to say that it should be within the framework of social services, is a hit on the very children and families who have lived with support – or social assistance, as it was previously called – for six months in the last twelve-month period. I find that accuracy defensible. It is something that is happening precisely within the framework of social services, so there is nothing pointing out in it. You often point out that these people are being pointed out and stigmatized. More would be done if it were generally people or families with really bad finances. The Left Party wants to eliminate the fee altogether. I think you'll have to think about that a little bit more. This was done in Örebro, but it did not mean that many more came to the cultural school. The fee had very little significance right there. I believe that this is about other efforts to reach the children who live in very difficult conditions, including social ones, and who do not even get information about the cultural school. So the fact that it does not cost anything does not mean that they come running to culture school.
i-X5DRo4tzoUMQkLPwSusnpn	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Roland Utbolt, for the discussion! I do not think that the point is the big problem in this context. It's the accuracy that's the big problem. If we want to reach as many children as possible – especially the children you are talking about, Roland, those who live in financial vulnerability – it is better that we work to reduce the fees as much as possible and even remove them completely. At present, 16 municipalities have removed them, I thought it was in the base, and in recent years many have taken the chance to reduce the fees with the help of the grant we have made to the municipalities. In politics, priority must be given. If I have the opportunity to choose between spending money on leisure money, which reaches a small group, or to reduce the fees substantially across the country, I think it is later a better general investment. When it comes to pointing out, it is rather about the feeling that I highlighted – that as a parent, having the opportunity to report their child to the cultural school on its own, after a discussion in the family, instead of saying: No, I have to talk to my social security secretary first and make sure that this is covered by a contribution from the municipality or the state. Regardless of who pays, there is a certain difference in the feeling you have as a parent between what you can give your child and what you have to ask from an official. I think that is an important question. You mention other stakes. I think that's a very important point, because we have to have that too. We can't just say that now it's free, now everyone will come and it'll be great. You have to make culture school known, you have to invite and you have to work outwardly in a different way. You have to tell us about the business, be out meeting parents, be out in primary school and inform and make sure that the information reaches the parents about what this is and how you can take part of it. You have to open up the business, and then it's great if you can be in the school premises. There, I think you are blowing up an unnecessary concern that the municipalities should not be able to organise themselves as they want. Of course you should have the business together with primary school.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-521	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Vasiliki. We don't have to agree on everything, you and me. If we were, we'd be in the same party. We don't want that, do we? We have some differences. I worked ten years in the Gothenburg Rescue Mission with families. It was really about homelessness, and it was really vulnerable families and, above all, children. We had a job called Solrosen, which was very nice, taking on children whose parents were in prison. This may have influenced my view of all this when I say it is accurate. The proposal is as it is, and then you have to look at it. But I want to defend the leisure money because I believe that the children who live like this, and there are many of them, can get opportunities through 3,000 crowns. It would open up some possibilities, for example to pay a fee to the cultural school – if there is a fee, but it still does in most places. So I want to defend it. Maybe we won't get much further. At least we agree that we have a common will to change in order to support the children and families who are having a difficult time. I'm grateful for that.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-525	Mr President, I would like to Today it is finally 23 May, and we are in this House to debate the report by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, KRU9 A municipal school of culture for the future. Let me be extremely clear that I have longed for this day. I have been waiting to stand here in the speaker's chair and debate this proposal, which is based on the proposal put forward by the government entitled A Municipal Cultural School for the Future – a strategy for government efforts. Why do I have it? Because the municipal music and culture school is a cornerstone of social democratic cultural policy and of our government. It is a prime example of the work of social democratic cultural policy to ensure that there is culture throughout the country in order to reach, above all, our children and young people. That's why I've been dying to be here today. Above all, I have longed to press the 'yes' button this afternoon and make a reality of the government proposal. Mr President, I would like to I still remember today the first time I came into contact with the cultural school in my municipality of Hässleholm. I was ten years old and went to Vittsjö school. My classmates and I were going to visit the library, where we were going to test the instruments that we had the opportunity to try later. It was a magical moment because in there, right then, we were all the same. It didn't matter if it was the class's best football player, the math genius or the shyest in the class – when we got a block flute or a violin in our hand, we could all laugh at our tedious attempts to produce a clean tone. It's a memory that still makes me smile today. In there, it didn't matter that we were different. That visit meant that as a ten - year - old I chose to start playing cello. Look in front of you a skinny little girl who drags back and forth to school an instrument almost as big as herself. Even today, that memory can make me laugh. Did this result in the fact that I can play cello today? No. I probably wouldn't be able to play a single note right. But it doesn't matter, because this is something I remember with joy. Mr President, I would like to Another thing that pleases me is the content of the bill. The government clearly highlights the importance of the cultural school for our children and young people, for our society and for Sweden's cultural life. Therefore, the cultural school is an activity of great importance and therefore of national interest, and I can assure you that the municipal cultural school is and will remain a municipal activity. But just as the bill describes, its activity is of such importance that it is of national interest. When I was in the election halls in 2014, before I had even received the great honour of being part of the Parliament's Cultural Committee, I talked to the voters about music – and culture school. I promised that if we ended up in government, we would make sure to increase its budget in order, among other things, to reduce charges but also to improve quality. Therefore, as you will imagine, I was extremely pleased when the government introduced an annual contribution of SEK 100 million in 2016 to implement this very thing. But we were not satisfied there, despite the fact that we had implemented an election promise. Before that, the government had set up an investigation, which has now resulted in a bill with an overall national goal based on the Government's commitment to: Promotion of accessibility and equality A wide and urgent range of cultural and artistic expressions 中 high quality both in broad and in in-depth teaching a good supply of skills. To achieve the national goal, the government has presented several initiatives. Among other things, it introduces a national cultural school centre that will distribute government grants, help to be responsible for statistics, monitor and disseminate research and promote collaboration between municipalities but also with other actors. We see cooperation between municipalities and cultural schools or with other actors as something very exciting. Today we already see amazing examples of how new groups can be reached together with El Sistema and study associations, for example. These are collaborations on which we Social Democrats are very positive and which we hope can be further developed. As for the annual grant of 100 million, it is now being converted into a development grant because the government has listened to what the cultural schools say and taken into account their need to broaden the grant so that they can continue their development. The grant can be used, among other things, to broaden the range to reach new groups. It can also be used for efforts to reach children and young people with disabilities or for specific actions to reach children from a socio-economically exposed background, but also for advanced education. This is an important development of the grant for the municipal cultural school, in order to reach all children and young people and for us to get both breadth and edge in the business. Unfortunately, when it comes to challenges, there are some urgent ones that we need to resolve. One problem facing the cultural school is the supply of staff. Extensive retirements await, while at the same time there is a need to develop teaching and broaden recruitment. The Government therefore proposes to support improved skills provision, a so-called cultural school life. Already this year we will invest SEK 25 million to increase next year to SEK 40 million. With these proposals, the Social Democratic-led government is taking a major step forward for an inclusive music and culture school. Madam President, I would like As I mentioned in my introduction, the School of Music and Culture is an extremely important activity for us Social Democrats and for the government. It is an activity that results from the fact that it was already felt in the 1940s that it was important to give all children the opportunity to play an instrument at low cost. Thus, the music schools were part of the Swedish welfare building. Since the start of the first municipal music schools, the business has grown and broadened into other art expressions, such as dance, theatre and visual arts. I have visited many amazing cultural schools during my time in Parliament. I have met teachers, principals and students who all want to talk about their work and their activities with great enthusiasm. It is about orchestral activities, choral singing, modern dance, ballet, filmmaking and more. One thing that has permeated all my visits since the start of the investigation is that all the schools I have visited demand national support. Not a single teacher, principal or school has mentioned that it would be problematic for them as municipal activities to have national goals. Not once have I been told that the government is out cycling on this issue. Instead, it calls for this support, both from the activities themselves and from municipal cultural politicians who want to push their municipal cultural school forward and do not want to risk budget cuts. It is therefore strange to me that some parties today have talked about that the national targets would work for governance, when we so clearly believe that this should be support. The national goal is not to run the cultural school or because we want all cultural schools to be built in the same form. If you have that attitude, you probably have not listened to the music and cultural schools you have visited, or at the Swedish Arts Council, the Teachers' Association or SKL. All of these are in favour of the bill. Madam President, I would like For me today's debate and voting is very simple. We have no thoughts or plans for detail control. Our ambition is to support the music and culture school and ensure that all of you who are passionate about the music and culture school can continue to develop that business. The goal we find in the bill is a result of what teachers, principals and local politicians themselves demand. That's what they want. Let us now turn them into reality. With those words, Madam President, I call for the proposal of the Committee on Culture to be approved in the KRU9 report and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-550	Madam President, I would like It is wonderful to hear Anna Wallentheim embroider what you would like the municipal cultural school to be. But there are actually many municipalities that do not even have a municipal cultural school, and the vast majority of those municipalities are governed by Social Democrats. Why does Anna Wallentheim not mention this in her speech? How can you get the opportunity for all children throughout the country to have access to municipal cultural school, even in the municipalities that are governed by social democrats and who have chosen out municipal cultural school? That is a question I would like Anna Wallentheim to answer. Another issue concerns advanced training. Anna Wallentheim says that government funding should be sufficient, even advanced education. Is it really the case that Vänersborg, for example, should be able to apply for grants for its top-level education for those students who are talented? Is this correct? I would like to know about that. The Minister of Culture was not in this Chamber when we began the debate. I would also like to see the views of the Social Democrats on this with the queues. The biggest problem with the municipal cultural school is the queues. In your proposal, which would actually be a letter and is not much more than that, you do not have a single proposal on how to remove the queues so that all children have access to the cultural school.
i-6TAGvVxc82RBzNAc6AF2oH	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Cecilia Magnusson, for the questions! If we start from behind, with the queues, there are unfortunately, just as you say, Cecilia Magnusson, some municipalities where this is a huge problem. And we're not building the lines off by lowering the fees. There is a lot in what you say, but we believe that the venture with this 100 million, as we make a development grant so that the municipalities can now apply for these funds to broaden and expand their operations, also ultimately means that more staff will be employed. The municipalities that are now in line and with which I have spoken point to the fact that one of the major problems is that teachers are not being found. Therefore, the cultural school centre is now becoming extremely important. We need to reach more teachers, broaden and ensure that the teachers in the cultural school also reach the new business. The music school has changed to become much of a cultural school. To remove the queues is therefore very important, and then more teachers are needed. But you also need to be able to broaden your offer to reach new groups, so that some of those in line can find other activities interesting. As far as cutting-edge education is concerned, I have actually talked to the Ministry about this very thing, for example about Vänersborg. Of course, we want the municipal cultural school to have both breadth and tip. Not all municipalities can offer advanced education, but we have fantastic activities throughout our country that can offer it, including in Vänersborg. By making the 100 million a development grant, we also give Vänersborg or other top-level educations the opportunity to apply for these funds. The last thing I'm going to mention is that there are actually municipalities that lack cultural school. Is this extremely boring? Yeah. Do these municipalities belong to those municipalities that are very small and have a difficult economic situation? Yes, unfortunately, Cecilia Magnusson. Then we need, among other things, this new national support, which means that local politicians can say: now there are national targets.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-558	Madam President, I would like We usually turn to the President in the lines and do not use you and others. But I will return to our discussion. Anna Wallentheim says that many municipalities have advanced education. Vänersborg is the municipality in the country that has the highest top education. No one else can compare to it. What other advanced training courses are there? I would like Anna Wallentheim to clarify this. The development grant seems to be able to go to all kinds of opportunities. One might think that it is not 100 million SEK but 100 billion SEK, as Anna Wallentheim paints it. Anna Wallentheim expresses herself as having talked to many municipalities that have queues, but that has almost all municipalities. Anna Wallentheim must not engage in much more than talking to municipalities, since almost everyone has queues. It is extremely serious that Anna Wallentheim does not have answers to the questions that are extremely important both for the municipal school of culture and for how children and young people should have access to culture in their learning, but also in their leisure time and for their own development. It will not be able to keep all children in the municipal cultural school. There are many other practitioners who are amazingly good at giving children the opportunity for cultural education. Why don't you open up to it, Anna Wallentheim?
i-5077579284a4ec5c-563	Madam President, I would like Cecilia Magnusson once again mentions cutting-edge education and Vänersborg. As she says, Vänersborg is really at the forefront of cutting-edge education. But when I have talked to representatives from Skåne and Stockholm, they have pointed out that they would like to be part of this cutting-edge education and broaden themselves. This is now possible, so that it can be applied for within the 100 million. As far as development aid is concerned, and that it cannot be enough for everyone, and so on, we have the ambition to give this money and to review the possibility and whether the money is enough. If they are not enough, it is clear that the government provides an opportunity to review the grant if it needs to be further developed. You want to take this money away completely, Cecilia Magnusson. How, then, can we reach all children and young people around our country who currently have cultural schools seeking this money? It's a coveted contribution, but you want to hijack it completely. How should we develop the music and culture school? When it comes to the fact that there is more than music in the cultural school, Cecilia Magnusson is quite right. That's why the government is spending 250 million on sport. We invest 100 million in music and culture school annually. We have introduced free entrances at state museums, allowing children to take their parents or grandparents with them and go and experience our cultural heritage. We have increased the funding for the cultural cooperation model, which reaches the whole country. We have also made sure that Creative School reaches preschool. We want to reintroduce aesthetic subjects in high school. We are pursuing a policy of giving children and young people throughout our country meaningful leisure time.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-568	Madam President, I would like One of the most fun things you can do in politics is to come out on study visits and see the effects of the decisions we have made here in Parliament. During the spring I have had the privilege of visiting cultural schools and talking to cultural school managers and seeing children and young people in the business. It is often pure joy that radiates from these children. It's completely impossible not to be touched. It is not without my being very proud of the results of the red-green cultural policy. This term of office is the first time in Sweden that we have a national support for cultural schools based on an ambition that all children and young people, regardless of the municipality of origin, will have access to a cultural school. We see that we are not quite there yet, but slowly but surely we are approaching that vision. At the same time, the clear message from cultural schools is that they do not feel controlled or restricted from above. They still have the opportunity to develop their activities in the way that suits them. Yes, it is still the municipalities that are responsible for almost the entire funding of the cultural school, and yes, state aid is marginally supported. But it is a support that has made it possible for many municipalities to develop their activities, expand their previous classical instrument education with dance and theatre and become a more complete cultural school and thus get more children and young people into the business and target more children's and young people's areas of interest. Now it's time for the next step. We are now setting up a national cultural school centre. Here I would like to extend warm thanks to the Liberals, who stand up for the bill and put children's and young people's access to cultural school before the opportunity to hold the Alliance together and to put together a bill with the Swedish Democrats. I have to say that it is strongly done by the Liberals to do this, on the basis of the extremely aggressive rhetoric we are hearing from the Moderates. Cecilia Magnusson is trying to conjure up this debate by bringing up completely de facto arguments. First of all, Cecilia Magnusson says that state support for the cultural school means governance and that in practice it is only a matter of reducing tariffs, although we hear clearly from the cultural schools that they do not feel it as government control, but that they have the support that they have been asking for for so long. We see in black and white that the resources have been used for a variety of actions based on what has been found appropriate in the individual municipality and the wishes and needs they have there. What we do from the state, however, is with a cultural school life create the conditions for developing the cultural school educators that are needed when the business is expanded. Secondly, Cecilia Magnusson says that it would like the activities that are now being established with a cultural school centre to be present at the Arts School Council, although the Council does not want that and even though the statutes do not create the conditions for this. You have mentioned in the Committee on Culture, Cecilia Magnusson, that if you are going to come forward with such a proposal, you must first of all have a dialogue with the Swedish Arts Council. But the Moderates are not even interested in it, but they want to go forward and put a task on a third party without even having a dialogue with that party. This is not a serious way of doing politics. Finally, Cecilia Magnusson says that the mere existence of a national goal means some kind of governance over the municipalities. Anyone who takes part of the case clearly finds that this is an objective aimed at the national level, not the municipal level. Of course, when an operation is established at state level, we must have an idea of what it should be about and an objective of what the state's effort should include. It's not about controlling the municipalities. We have talked about the fact that we have created the conditions for broadening our activities, but what is also key words in the goal is quality and deepening. It is incredibly important that we can meet those students who are moving on quickly in instrument education and perhaps even grow out of local teaching and give these students the conditions for in-depth studies so that they can prepare for possible music university studies in the future and that in this way we can secure the regrowth of Sweden's music life in the future. With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject all reservations. I note that Cecilia Magnusson is squatting in the bench as usual and does not want to ask for a reply. I don't know if we should interpret it as agreeing with what I'm saying or not daring to ask for a line. I would have thought that Cecilia Magnusson would have a slightly different attitude in the debate today. She has expressed these views in the past and has been met in the debate not only at political level but also from the industry. I have included a debate article signed by the Vice-Chancellor of the Stockholm Music Education Institute, which completely dismisses everything that Cecilia Magnusson has said. Perhaps it would be good if Cecilia Magnusson took advantage of the knowledge in the industry instead of trying to conjure the debate and make it about something other than what it is about. We should know that the background to Moderate actions here – that they do not want to speak clearly – is basically that they do not want to spend resources at the cultural school. They do not have those resources in their budget, they do not want to talk about it and therefore they are trying to get the debate to be about something else. However, I will comment on some of the things that Cecilia Magnusson has said here in the debate and which are very strange. She talked about the Alliance government introducing free admission for children and young people in museums. No, what the Alliance government did was to introduce an entrance for parents and thus make it more difficult for children and young people to come to the museums. Cecilia Magnusson is here asking questions about how to handle this – short queues and so on – while not wanting any national targets. What is important here is that we not only directly strengthen the funding for cultural schools. We also have stronger general contributions to the municipalities. In this way, we also create better conditions for municipalities. Finally, I would like to say that I have noticed that representatives from the RUM, the National Association of Young Musicians, are sitting in the gallery. And I want to thank you for the wonderful anniversary concert last weekend.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-586	Madam President, I would like This weekend I was sitting on the terrace at home. Out on the lawn, my daughter's friend was on her back with her eyes closed. Next to my tailoring position was my 12-year-old daughter playing guitar. Guitar is one of the most popular instruments, followed by piano, at the cultural school. It was years of yearning to go to culture school for my daughter, and the happiness of mastering the instrument is complete. Now she wants to go on and play electric guitar too. As a parent with eardrums, I'm a little more hesitant. But it will be exciting to see what happens. The cultural school is financed mainly through municipal grants and through fees. There is also government money. We Liberals have spent money mainly on a national competence centre. Today we are debating whether there should be national targets for the cultural school. The national objectives are aimed, among other things, at directing efforts to support the cultural school from the state side without, for that reason, directing the way in which the activities are to be designed. The cultural school, as has been said here several times, is not a compulsory activity, nor should it be. This means that municipalities will continue to decide whether they want a cultural school at all and how it should be designed. It can be run by the municipalities themselves in cooperation with other municipalities or be outsourced to other actors, such as study associations. Today, 283 of the 290 municipalities in the country already have a cultural school. Laxå, in my own county Örebro, is one of the seven municipalities that do not have a cultural school. But we have still seen an improvement in the county. In 2014, only two municipalities in our county did not have a cultural school. At the same time, one of the county's municipalities was on the top ten list of best cultural school municipalities. Little Hällefors was located in 2014 at place eight. In 2016 they were in place three. We have another municipality that has entered the top ten list – Degerfors, which is also a small municipality. This, if anything, says that the size of municipalities is not crucial for whether there is a cultural school and for the quality of it, but is about political will, governance, how much money you get and what it should contain. In 2014, Örebro County Council, which is now Region Örebro, wrote a report. Among other things, there was the lack of rules and targets. Some 5,000 teachers and educators work in the cultural school. Many share their work in the cultural school with a service in primary school or upper secondary school, as it is difficult to make a living in a full-time cultural school. I would very much have liked to have seen that there were more teachers who were trained to work in the cultural school and who could also do it full time. We know that there are more girls than boys attending cultural school, and we find it difficult to reach pupils with a weaker socio-economic background. There are tens of thousands of children in line for cultural school. It's a problem that the lines are so long. But it is also positive that so many people go to culture school, because it is a popular activity. But it needs to be better at reaching all children. Not all children today know that the culture school is for them, and not all children know the culture school at all today. Me and the Liberals, not only here in Parliament but of course around the municipalities where you run the cultural school, know and see the importance of culture in different ways. We know that aesthetic learning processes are positive for students. We know that culture increases learning in different ways. Besides, culture is fun. Today we have talked very little about culture being fun. It would be nice if the government also wanted to reintroduce this leisure allowance in order to reach some of the families who do not have the financial conditions required in some municipalities to allow their children to apply for the cultural school. I believe that everyone in here knows and agrees that more and more efforts are needed to reach all children and young people, regardless of their background and circumstances. I want more children to have the opportunity to test whether the theatre is fun, whether the circus is something for them or just feel the feeling of singing in choir, whether you sing well or not. The cultural school should be of high quality, and it should place high demands on its teachers as it benefits all students. Among all those who have the opportunity to test and test their way forward and who have the opportunity to have fun will also be tomorrow's artists, tomorrow's dancers and tomorrow's musicians who take their place on our world scenes. I want every child to be able to long to play guitar. I want more kids to lie on their backs in the grass and just enjoy the friend playing. That is why we Liberals support this report, because we believe that these national objectives will be able to achieve more. I support the proposal in the report.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-600	Madam President, I would like Cultural school is one of our country's most important institutions. It can even determine whether children and young people are given the opportunity to try out culture, develop and form culturally. The Culture School has a unique opportunity to be a gathering place for children and young people from different parts of society. It gives a chance for a community for children and young people from different parts of society to meet and have a platform in a completely new context, where one can build a common image and develop together. There are a lot of reasons to defend, protect and at the same time develop the cultural school. Madam President, I would like Today, however, there are, unfortunately, large differences in access to cultural school activities depending on where in the country you live and depending on the parents you have. Children with a privileged socio-economic background are more involved in cultural school activities. Girls participate more than boys. And children with disabilities often find it particularly difficult to access culture on equal terms with others. We can change all that. We're gonna change all of this. Therefore, for the first time, a bill is now on Parliament's table with a comprehensive policy for the cultural school. Madam President, I would like The support for the municipalities provided by this government, starting from 2016, is now being made more flexible. We broaden its scope of use, so that it can be used even better based on our many municipalities' many different needs and wishes. This is about SEK 100 million per year that the municipalities can apply for. In 2016 alone, this provided over 5,000 unique new student places in the cultural school – that is, more than 5,000 new places in the cultural school in just one year. The money's been spent. And they can be used for a broader range, for special efforts to reach children and young people with functional variations, for distance learning efforts, for in-depth efforts for students who show special talent and great interest and for many other purposes. It is the identified needs of municipalities for the children for whom they are responsible that are at the heart of the investments and investments made by the government. At this very moment we are setting up a national cultural school centre in the Swedish Arts Council. In addition to allocating support to municipalities, this centre will monitor and disseminate research, identify development and education needs and promote collaboration between municipalities, as the municipalities demand, call for and want to see. They want to collaborate more, they want better ideas and suggestions on how to develop their cultural school. With ten special million SEK per year, the Cultural School Centre will be able to contribute precisely to the dissemination of good examples. However, the core and the engine of the cultural school are the teachers. In the initiative we make, Kulturskoleklivet, we invest to ensure that there are well-trained teachers who can work in the cultural school. This year we will invest as much as SEK 25 million and in the coming years SEK 40 million in these particular teacher training programmes. Major retirements are expected within a few years, while the cultural school's range will be broadened. Therefore, more training places, training efforts and development funds are needed for higher education institutions to be able to develop new programmes with relevance to the cultural school. The Government's proposal, which is now on Parliament's table, contains a broad range of measures that create the conditions for more children and young people to have the opportunity to take part in a multifaceted offering within the municipal cultural school's enclosure. This is framed by a national target that will serve as a benchmark for what the state's efforts will lead to. Madam President, I would like Against the government's policy for a stronger cultural school with better conditions are parts of the opposition – the Quartet Moderates, the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. They alert and address the proposed target as a benchmark for the state's efforts in the field of cultural education. They crouch in chorus, in harmony with the gloomy symphony of the bleak branches, about the horror of the fact that the government actually wants to take responsibility for the state money invested in the cultural school. State targets, they mean, are governing. Let me therefore repeat what I have written in the bill as well as in many, many articles and speeches: The state objective is a benchmark for government efforts and nothing else. It does not govern the activities of municipalities. We protect local self-government. The municipalities should continue to be left in full freedom to continue to develop the cultural school in the successful spirit in which they are already working. But what we as a government do, unlike the opposition, is listen to the municipalities. We have listened carefully. We have listened to the municipalities' clear need for help and support for their activities, and now the support is finally coming. The Liberals have realised this, and I hope that the Liberals dare to stand by their idea and vote through the bill this afternoon. I appeal to you not to let you be intimidated by the Moderates and hope that you continue to show Sweden's municipalities and Swedish cultural schools that you can be trusted, so that we get the bill through the Riksdag. It is because those affected by the policy we have now put forward – municipalities, cultural schools, children and parents – have welcomed the policy we have put forward. It has been fantastic to work out a policy for a long time and then face the huge and warm reception – go around the country and be part of many conversations and get such an incredibly positive response to what we now want to do. You want support. It supports the policies and objectives. You can see that you can continue to develop your activities based on the freedom you have as a municipality but that you need help to reach more children and young people. It therefore particularly welcomes the fact that State aid should be even more general and flexible. Madam President, I would like Over the years as Minister of Culture, I have, of course, visited cultural schools throughout the country. I have listened to songs and music, seen dance shows and visited costume stores. Above all, like many other speakers, I have seen the exuberant joy and how children and young people – both in themselves and in the conversation afterwards – testify to how they have developed and how important the cultural school has for their life, leisure and reality. I hope and believe that we are now facing a new golden era when it comes to our municipal cultural school. There is an enormous potential for the cultural school to have an even greater importance, and this Parliament will decide this afternoon.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-613	Madam President, I would like It seems that the Minister for Culture is frightened by the opposition because she is so keen to cling to the Liberal position. However, she does not have to be. We do not focus our efforts on crushing the Minister for Culture, but we focus our efforts on enabling all children and young people to have the opportunity for culture in their development and education. That is our priority. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Culture to the debate. She wasn't here when it started and couldn't hear all the posts, but it's fun that she's here now. I'll take a moment and answer her party colleague Niclas Malmberg. He says that this is the first time that national support has been created, but there has been national support for many years – including through the cultural cooperation model. This is nothing new, therefore, but simply a circumvention of the model of cultural cooperation and the way in which we work in this House. In my speech, I asked the Minister for Culture three questions about things she must have noticed when she has travelled around the country. The first question is, how are we going to get the lines off? There is not a single proposal on it in this bill, which is actually a letter with only one proposal. The second question is: How should parents who cannot afford to let their children attend cultural school? The third question is: why does the government not trust the Council of Culture Schools, their activities and their ability to have the Centre for Cultural Schools? Why don't you even investigate this, but put it on the Unsorted Trade Council of Culture?
i-5077579284a4ec5c-619	Madam President, I would like If there is any organisation and activities I as an environmental party and involved in Kultursverige know well, it is the Arts School Council, the Cultural Schools and our municipalities, Cecilia Magnusson. I know very well what their needs are, and that is precisely why we have been able to work out a policy that has been received with such joy and respect. As I said just now in the speaker's chair, it has been extremely gratifying to feel that support. It has been gratifying to have talks with SKL, which is an umbrella organisation that brings together our municipalities and regions, and to travel around the country and talk to both municipal and cultural school managers. They have said: Finally! This is what we want. We want this support and help. They want that because – and then I come to your other two questions, Cecilia Magnusson – they obviously feel frustrated about the queues. They want to be able to offer all children the opportunity to practice culture and art, and they also feel frustrated that there are fees that stand in the way. They see that the fee sometimes needs to be reduced, and sometimes they have identified other needs that are greater. That is why this policy is welcomed by Sweden's cultural schools, by the Council of Culture Schools, by our municipalities and by many parents and children.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-622	Madam President, I would like Yesterday the Committee on Culture had a visit by the national coordinator of libraries. There it was told that the targeted contribution to libraries, which is just like the targeted grant to cultural schools, has meant that libraries are applying for grants for new bookshelves. Is it supposed to be the same with this grant – that municipal cultural schools should apply for grants for note stands? Can the Minister of Culture agree with that? When the cultural cooperation model was introduced, this meant that cultural issues and schools were raised, Madam President, not only from the Cultural Board but also from the municipal boards. What the government, with social democrats and environmentalists and with the support of the Left Party, is now doing is eroding the model of cultural cooperation and the way in which the state governs and discusses funds for municipalities and regions. First it was library support; now it is cultural school support. That support goes to everything. How's that gonna work? The Minister of Culture did not answer one of my questions. How are the lines going to get away? How are children whose parents cannot afford cultural school to come to? And why can't the Swedish Arts Council get the task of running this new cultural school centre, just as the Swedish Sports Federation controls its means and the outdoor movement controls the money that the state spends?
i-5077579284a4ec5c-625	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Arts Council has welcomed the policy and has welcomed the distribution of support via the Swedish Arts Council. This is welcomed by the Swedish Arts Council. The entire policy that we now put forward after listening carefully to Sweden's municipalities and cultural schools and to managers, leaders, students and children is welcome. I don't know what the strategy is behind Moderate rhetoric, but it worries much of Culture Sweden. It definitely worries large parts of Kulturskolesverige, including many parents and children. I can only hope that the policy that you, Cecilia Magnusson, represent and stand for will not have an impact without us continuing to develop the country's cultural schools and to pursue a policy that provides more culture for more people and creates opportunities for many children and young people who, unfortunately, today have obstacles in the way of developing, learning and practicing culture.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-628	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for participating in this debate! I believe it is important for the whole of Culture Sweden and for the entire Committee on Culture. It was interesting to listen to the minister of culture's speech and her accusations against the opposition for being something of the dreary choir, or whatever it sounded like. The Minister of Culture should have listened to my previous speech. I spoke very warmly and lovingly about what the music and culture school does. I spoke about those of us who have been shaped by it and gone into it, but also about how Kulturskolesverige sees parts of the government's policy. You can be a warm friend of music and culture school activities without being a friend of the politics that the government is now presenting. Precisely because I am a friend of the School of Music and Culture, I am critical of certain aspects of the policy presented by the government. I can start by giving praise to the cultural school centre. All eight parties agree – and have also stated today – that this is an important step towards securing the supply of skills. At the same time, I am a little concerned when both Niclas Malmberg and the Minister for Culture return to the fact that they have put their ear to the ground and listened to the heads of culture schools and children and when they talk about the content of the bill being long awaited. Many of the restless voices I hear may not belong to cultural school managers but well teachers and educators. They see that the cultural school radically changes direction and that their long-standing competence is no longer included in the teaching and education focus. Instead, it is redirected to an arena for some general form of leisure activity, where interaction with the school does not function as intended and planned in the goals presented by the government. I would like to ask the Minister for Culture how she sees the problem of both the investigation and the proposal being normative.
i-TECxqpHwaCc3p8uk3KqNU3	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Aron Emilsson, for the question! I share the concerns expressed by many cultural school teachers. They worry about the regrowth; this is something I have also met. How can we ensure that there are skilled, trained and competent teachers who can continue to develop the cultural school? They also worry that you should not be able to work with both the breadth and the tip and actually live in artistic qualities in the development of their cultural school. I have heard exactly the same stories, testimony and heavy thoughts as the Member of Parliament expresses. That is precisely why we have put a great deal of energy and effort into working out the policy that is today on the table of Parliament. This is also the reason for both the SEK 100 million a year and Kulturskolekliv, with the places of education included there. We will be able to ensure that there are competent teachers who can fill the places and further develop the cultural school. We also have the cultural school centre that will conduct research, disseminate good ideas and in different ways support the municipalities and their cultural schools. That is precisely why we have formulated the policy as it is on the table. We have taken note of the same things as the Member of Parliament.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-639	Madam President, I would like That is precisely why I wonder how one intends to achieve the balance between, on the one hand, securing the very essence of the music and culture school and, on the other hand, the aim of being a bit of an educational institution that allows more people to discover and also support orchestral life and to contribute to the Swedish music envy with new abilities and, on the other hand, to have a range that should be broad and urgent for everyone, as it says the bill, with a strong accessibility. At the same time, the bill opens up to enable it to be exercised in leisure time, etc. But if you are to strengthen both accessibility and equality, which you are careful about in the new goal of the country's music and cultural schools, it goes against the ambition that has been normative both from the investigation and in parts of the signal policy that the government has presented, namely that it is more difficult to do so during school hours. You drive it in, and you stand up in, a direction where more and more are placed outside of school time. This is also a direction that is increasingly moving towards group teaching rather than individual teaching, which in its core has the ability to supply, for example, skilled musicians or dancers. I believe that the possibility of individual, in-depth education, as highlighted by the Minister for Culture, is limited by the fact that instead of allowing this to be an oasis for those who want to develop and learn more in this field, they want to lower the thresholds and try to be accessible to everyone. Instead, the role of the school in building cohesion could have been enhanced and questions about cultural pilots or cannons presented by the Swedish Democrats could have been taken up, so that the school could be an arena for cohesion while the music and culture school could be an arena for those seeking deeper knowledge.
i-3PtWm9fX5Jx1j3bSrFZkFL	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Aron Emilsson, for the continuing question! We do both – this is what is so good about this bill and the policy that we put forward. We want to focus both on the width and on the tip. That is what has been said. We have not gone one way or the other, but we see that width gives tip. This also shows all the research and studies. Zlatan's a favorite, isn't he? You do not get people like Zlatan as simple as that, but you have to bet on the breadth. This is part of the sports industry in Sweden. We have great top athletes because we have given many children and young people the opportunity. The same applies to music, and it can be with the image form and everything else that fits within the cultural school's activities. We invest in the breadth, but we write clearly in the bill that also the top education should be offered to the young. As I mentioned in my speech: Those young people who have a special interest and who want more should also be able to have the cultural school as a platform to take the next step and perhaps grow their talent and develop such a deep interest that they then seek higher education. With this policy, which hopefully goes through this afternoon, as a basis, we actually give the cultural schools and our municipalities the support they want. Then we will have to build on, as previous speakers said, and that is what this government that I represent is prepared to continue investing in. We will continue to prioritise more culture to more people. It is something that we have decided on, and from this we will not fold.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-649	Madam President, I would like Briefly: Given that one of Cecilia Magnusson's comments was hanging in the air, namely that we are rounding the cultural cooperation model, there are two things you must have quite clearly in mind. Firstly, it is not the case that the Moderates have any resources for this within the cultural cooperation model. The Moderates do not fund it in a different way, but they cut resources directly to the cultural school and do not have the resources for this within the cultural cooperation model. They also have lower general contributions to municipalities than the government has in the budget bill. Secondly, if we went through the cultural cooperation model, we would not reach all the municipalities in the country, because Stockholm County is not part of the cultural cooperation model. The Moderates may not think that the City of Stockholm needs these resources. However, if you went through the cultural cooperation model, no other municipality in Stockholm County would be able to access the resources for the cultural school either. Why do the Moderates Stockholm County municipalities mean increased resources for the cultural school?
i-5077579284a4ec5c-653	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to call for the approval of reservation 1 in the report. The situation of the Swedish haulage industry has not improved in four years. There are still not enough traffic police. The fees for the Swedish Transport Agency have been reviewed, but that is certainly not enough. There are too few policemen and too few resources on our roads. The alcoboms are still not stationed at our border stations. There are no working resting places. The control of trucks crossing the border is almost non-existent. You get away from fees, fines and penalties. The legal system does not give enough priority to illegal transport and crimes, but often they are abandoned or dismissed. All this is a matter for which the government has a great responsibility, but unfortunately nothing is happening. Madam President, I would like We Moderates want to invest in more cops, and a GPS surveillance of foreign trucks and spend more money on the roads and maintenance. We also want the alcoboms to be set up immediately to stop drunk drivers from coming out on our roads. Madam President, I would like Sweden depends on working transport for companies and jobs to grow and become more. Swedish haulage companies are doing a great deal of work to solve this, but we have a government that only sees Swedish haulage and entrepreneurship as a cash cow. Taxes are constantly being raised and the competitiveness of Swedish haulage industry is deteriorating. It is the countryside, our businesses and our jobs that are threatened by this anti-billy and anti-rural government. Madam President, I would like These four S-led years are four lost years for the haulage industry. There is still no increased customer responsibility on site. There are still no alcoboms in our ports and border stations. Swedish haulage still suffers from a tougher interpretation of the rules for driving and rest periods than the haulage industry in Denmark, for example. In Denmark it is possible to deviate from driving and rest times by up to 5% without being punished. This should also be possible in Sweden. Still illegal trucks are not really trampled, but all the government has managed to achieve after three and a half years of investigation and four lost years is that it is now expanding the clamping one by 12 hours to a total of 36 hours. Madam President, I would like Should it take three and a half years to investigate an extension of the clamping time by only 12 hours? Madam President, I would like Another sound was in the bark of the election movement four years ago. Then there were many powerful S-politicians screaming themselves hossy that if they only came to power there would be real squabbling. Now we know the answer. After these four years, according to the Social Democrats, it is 36 hours. Swedish haulage companies have a tougher competitive position than their colleagues in Europe. We have Europe's highest diesel tax. This means that a skier in Sweden has to pay up to two SEK more for diesel than his competitors. If a truck goes 20 000 km and draws about three litres of diesel per mile, this means that the Swedish haulage company will have to pay about 120 000 SEK more than its foreign competitors for the diesel. Of course, this affects competitiveness and risks losing jobs in Sweden. Madam President, I would like We in the Alliance requested more than a year ago that the competition situation be reviewed and that the competition situation for Swedish hauliers be clearly compared with the foreign ones. The Parliament supported the proposal, but the government ignores this and apparently does not think it is so important to review the competitive situation of Swedish haulage industry. That is why my question today is to the Social Democrats: when will the competitiveness inquiry, which the Transport Committee and the Riksdag have ordered, about the competitiveness of the Swedish haulage industry? Are you going to follow Parliament's decision and request on the matter? Madam President, I would like Instead of strengthening competitiveness, the government is engaged in raising fuel taxes and is planning to introduce even more truck taxes for Swedish haulage industry. It was investigated for three and a half years, but it does not care to investigate and compare the competitive situation of Swedish haulage industry. Why does the S-government not give priority to competitive haulage? Madam President, I would like Instead of tackling the problems and making the studies that really need to be done to solve the problems, the Social Democratic Government is engaged in investigating and planning for unprofitable high-speed trains. Put those plans down and make sure that existing railways and roads work in the country! Madam President, I would like Swedish haulage industry does not need higher diesel taxes or new truck taxes. Swedish haulage industry needs better competitiveness. Sweden does not need unprofitable high-speed trains. On the other hand, we need working railways, navigable roads and a flight that works throughout the country. Instead of renovating our roads and railways, however, this anti-business government is investing in subsidising electric bicycles. Madam President, I would like Another point highlighted in the bill is hit-and-run from crime. The government has not solved that issue either. Today, many people escape their fines and fees and then do not receive any penalties. We Moderates have long pointed out that we need to tighten up border controls. It cannot be reasonable for a person to enter this country, commit crimes and then leave the country without a penalty. We Moderates want better monitoring by means of a GPS system to check that foreign hauliers are really doing well in the country and comply with the laws in force under the cabotage and combined transport rules. Madam President, I would like Swedish haulage industry fights against illegal haulage on our roads on a daily basis, but nothing has yet happened on the part of the government. Madam President, I would like Sweden lacks alcoboms at our borders. Sweden lacks more traffic police. Sweden lacks a better competitiveness for our haulage industry. Sweden lacks proper controls at our borders. Sweden lacks an effective government that tackles the problems. All of this can be corrected after 9 September this year. Let's really do that. It is good that the increased customer responsibility is now being implemented, and we agree on that. But just as important is that we really make sure that it is complied with. The law will be evasive if this is not followed up so that those who commit the crimes are really exposed and prosecuted. It is not only enough to introduce laws, it is also necessary to have follow-up and control out there that works. There is still much to be desired. Madam President, I would like The Social Democratic Government has introduced a flight tax that threatens aviation and jobs in Sweden. The Social Democratic Government intends to reduce the competitiveness of the country's companies and haulage industry with a new truck tax. The Social Democratic Government has increased fuel taxes so that the price is now over 16 crowns a litre. People in the countryside are paying for the government's electric bicycles to the city dwellers. Replace this anti-rural government on 9 September!
i-KWbiQVe3EDcqXvcy9MyyH3	Madam President, I would like I support the reservations of the Swedish Democrats, Nos 2 and 6. The Swedish Democrats take seriously the fact that it is difficult for Swedish hauliers to carry out haulage activities. There are huge quantities of goods transported by lorries through Sweden. Just before I stood in the speaker's chair, I attended a seminar with Ystad Hamn, Polferries and Unity Line. All the figures indicate that freight transport will increase. The length of vessels is increasing, and the need for transport is increasing. In other words, Swedish haulage industry should flourish as the most beautiful summer meadow, but unfortunately this is not the case. What does it look like? When you travel along the major roads you see a lot of trucks, and they are not too rarely registered abroad. Competition is fierce, and prices are dumped. Not infrequently, prices are so low that they barely cover the cost of fuel for the transport itself. Let me take an example. When I was an active dock worker, I visited the port of Lysekil. They told me that one of their lines to Poland had disappeared. How could that be possible, I thought. Well, the prices for truck transport are so low that the trucks are competing out the ships. A ship can carry vast quantities of cargo but still becomes outcompeted by trucks. I can't believe it. Madam President, I would like We have virtually no control over the transports that take place in Sweden. The number of traffic police is about 200, and they will control all roads in Sweden. In the 80's there were about 1,500 police officers, and then the controls were much better. In addition, there was less traffic then than today. Of course, there should be at least 1 500 traffic police officers and preferably 2 000 or more in order for us to be able to deal with the widespread fraud. With a traffic police force of about 200 police officers you understand that few are stopped and controlled. Foreign drivers often work under poor conditions. Many live in their trucks months straight and cook on the side of the road. If you see no police officers and never get stopped and controlled, the temptation to earn a few extra dollars is likely to be by cheating quite large. We need to be clear. It shouldn't pay to cheat. One way to make money and time is to forget to loadproof or just toss a little buzzband to make it look good. There's still no one who can see through the curtain of a trailer what's there. A badly loaded trailer can roll over in one of the many roundabouts it passes on its way. Even worse is if the cargo gets out of the trailer. I've experienced that myself, but I was lucky enough to stay. It was a pallet that flew off the truck, and it could have gone really bad. I can't imagine how many accidents like this happen. Another time I drove behind a truck in a roundabout. The driver had not been able to attach the kingpin to the tractor, which meant that the trailer was loose throughout the journey. When the driver turned just outside the port area, the entire trailer was unloaded from the tow truck. When I was at the cargo securing course in the harbor, we were able to go with customs and see what it looks like in real life. We inspected trailers that were to proceed with ro-ro ships to Immingham. There are a little harder rules for cargo that goes by ship than for cargo that goes on the road. We opened many trailers, and not many were even able to go on their way. It is especially important on the lake that the goods are quite sour, because if the weather is harsh and the ship swings, there is a great risk that the cargo wears off and that it becomes oblique. The boat can also sink. It's really bad today. Madam President, I would like We need to get control of the transports that take place on the roads. Already in 2015 there were reports that more than 1 000 foreign tractors never even leave Sweden – this despite the fact that we have rules that say that they can do three domestic transports during seven days. But these never leave Sweden. The trucks should be registered as soon as they cross the border to Sweden, and with the help of GPS systems we should be able to follow the transports and ensure that the laws are complied with. A lot of driving and rest times are cheated by choosing to manipulate the tachograph. It must feel like a hopeless battle for those who try to build safe and secure tachographs when some do everything to cheat. It must be made clear that if you break the rules, it should be expensive. Taking a chance shouldn't be an option. It must be sent out a strong signal that in Sweden it is not profitable to cheat. The police must be given a reasonable chance to prosecute the fraud. You can get 40 000 SEK in penalty fees if you break the cabotage rules, and you can get your vehicle locked up for a maximum of 24 hours if you do not pay the penalty fee, which few choose to do. We should look at the possibility of increasing the fine and, of course, also the time for classing. The government received an announcement in 2014 to extend the time for clapping, which at the time was at most 24 hours. More than three years later, it is now proposed in a proposal that squeezing can last up to a maximum of 36 hours. What were you thinking here? If the police or the customs office decides to push a vehicle at the clock. At 3 p.m., they have to come back the next night. 03.00 and unload the clip of a vehicle whose penalty fee is not paid. It doesn't make sense. The Swedish democrats think that the investigation has taken far too long and that the time for classing is far too short. Claims should, of course, remain in place until the penalty is paid. Otherwise, the short clip can be used as a weekly rest period for the driver. Unfortunately, it is only the Swedish Democrats who have written a follow-up motion on the Government's proposal for extended squabbling because we want to see longer squabbling than 36 hours. We would have liked the other parties too to have called for this motion to be approved, but no, only the Swedish Democrats do.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-693	Madam President, I would like I do not think anyone in this House will argue otherwise than that there should be order and order in our ways. Agricultural undertakings, irrespective of nationality, shall comply with the rules applicable to heavy and professional goods transport. Anything else is unacceptable. Of course, the zero vision, which is well known in traffic contexts and which means that no one should be killed or seriously injured in Swedish road traffic, should also include professional goods transport. Anything else is unacceptable. Madam President, I would like The purpose of this whole discussion and the legislation that is now to come into place is precisely that there should be order and order and road safety on our roads. Unsound competition and cheating between serious and rogue companies by preventing the latter from overcoming the regulatory framework at all times. In this fight, against unhealthy criminal competition, various weapons must be used. One of them we are discussing here and now today. It's the clamping or restraint of vehicles. Other tools are of course more effective supervision, for example through the Swedish Tax Agency or by the customer of the transport being given a responsibility to keep an eye on the fact that it has gone smoothly. It is also a question of technical means of demonstrating compliance with driving and rest times and of not violating the cabotage acquis, which is fundamentally sensible and which aims to increase transport efficiency. It also indicates how many domestic transports a foreign driver, regardless of the country concerned, may take on his or her way back to his or her destination. In autumn 2014, the Center Party and the Alliance Government submitted a bill, a bill, to the Riksdag on measures to prevent further travel. So it was the law of clamping that made its entry into Sweden. The bill was approved by Parliament that autumn. Following that decision, there has therefore been an opportunity since March 2015 to trample, lock down, vehicles for up to 24 hours – this in order to secure fines, to prevent further violations of the law or to prevent traffic with vehicles whose drivers pose a risk to safety. On the other hand, when it comes to preventing the use of a dangerous vehicle, the lock-in can last until there is no longer any reason for it. That difference exists in the legislation. The crackdown, the lockdown, was a new tool in the fight against the illegality of professional traffic on our roads. Such is the legal situation here and now. In connection with the parliamentary debate in the autumn of 2014 on allowing for classing, the Riksdag also took the opportunity to address an announcement to the current government to investigate the possibilities of clamping, locking down, vehicles for longer than today's 24 hours. There was probably a feeling and a suspicion that the 24-hour lock might not at all be enough to discourage the temptation to cheat. We are here today, three and a half years later, and we can see that the proposal presented by the government means that the maximum time limit for classing may be 36 hours, except in cases where classing is decided to prevent the use of vehicles which pose a risk to road safety. It may continue until such time as it is not necessary. When you read the bill, the bill, you see that there are no guarantees or knowledge of whether this helps. Is 36 hours the time limit for grappling that will be effective enough to ensure that deficiencies are remedied and that fines and fines are paid? Therefore, I and the Center Party assume that the government will monitor very closely the effects of the new provisions in order to clarify whether the new deadlines for classing are effective enough or whether there is a need for further tightening. Otherwise, the risk is that a maximum of 36 hours will not have the meaning that we want to reduce the problem of notorious offenders who might be willing to wait out the deadline which will now be 36 hours and then be able to roll on. Close follow-up is therefore needed. Madam President, I would like Ultimately, this is all about maintaining good compliance, order and order for heavy goods vehicles. In order for it to work in real life on roads – no matter what legislation we have in Sweden – and in order to be able to trample, be able to read driving and rest times, be able to drill in illegal cabotage, be able to check that the cargo is secured, be able to check that the vehicle is safely required skilled police officers and skilled traffic inspectors who can both detect and prevent crimes and who also feel it makes sense to prosecute the person who is believed to have committed a crime. It is therefore a worrying development that has been seen in recent years where the number of police officers with traffic police skills to carry out checks on heavy goods vehicles is falling. This is due to many things, but retirements combined with marginal recruitment are of course a cause. Heavy transport, compliance, road safety is as much a matter for the Committee on Justice as it is for the Committee on Transport. Madam President, I would like Finally, the existence of different types of cheating has major negative consequences economically, environmentally and socially. People are being exploited. So I and the Center Party believe that no matter who cheats and what you cheat, it can never be accepted. Therefore, work to reduce cheating must be given higher priority than it is today. There is reason to move forward with other proposals, methods and more tools to reduce cheating. One could be to introduce requirements for readable, but non-manipulable, GPS equipment for commercial vehicles rolling in and out of the country's borders. It is the burden of proof and the amount of evidence that makes it meaningful to prosecute. Then there must be greater coordination between the various authorities, police, customs, the Tax Agency and others, in order to counter, in different ways and in different ways, the crime in the transport sector which contributes to a worse economy, social exploitation and a worse environment. Madam President, I would like That is what I was going to say, and I also call for reservation No 3 in this report.
i-MLHBPayGUJwt7aYLBj9jth	Madam President, I would like For time winning, I only agree to Liberals' reservation No. 5. There should be competition on equal terms for heavy goods transport carried out on our roads and within the EU. Heavy goods transport by road is in many cases also of a cross-border nature. This means that action is needed within EU cooperation. It is important that the Swedish Government continues to act as a driving force. I would like to start by addressing the issue of classification. As previous speakers have mentioned, squeezing is a physical measure which means that the vehicle cannot continue its journey. Since 1 March 2015, this applies for 24 hours. In order to prevent traffic with vehicles which pose a real danger to road safety, the clamping may persist until there is no longer any reason for it. In connection with the decision to allow a vote, the Riksdag also issued an announcement to the Government to investigate the possibility of allowing the measures to be taken in the event of a further stay to last longer than 24 hours. As previous speakers have said, it took three and a half years for the government to come back with a proposal of 36 hours at the most. The question is whether this is an adequate measure. Clarification of vehicles which pose a real danger to road safety may, however, continue to exist until there is no longer a reason for it. We assume that the government will closely monitor the effects of the new provisions to clarify whether the new deadlines for clapping are effective enough. I'd like to make a delivery. There is a difficulty in extending time. We know, of course, that there is a discussion about how long a vehicle can be trampled on, not least when one looks at the individual's rights of access to justice under the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. We know that there is a dilemma in this, but the issue must be followed. We now note that an extension from 24 to 36 hours has gone well. Madam President, I would like We in the Liberals have a reservation about driving and rest times, reservation 5. Driving and rest periods aim to ensure fair competition between operators in the road transport sector, to give drivers a good social situation and to contribute to increased road safety. If, during a check, the Swedish Transport Agency finds that driving and rest times have been exceeded, the company must pay a sanction fee. However, criticism has been expressed that, despite good planning, unforeseen events may arise which could lead to violations of the rules. The balance between infringements is not always considered to be balanced among operators. The system is blunt and puts some operators at a disadvantage. There are examples of simple human error without intention that has given the company a fine or a penalty fee. One driver accidentally pushed out his card while driving, which made the driving not registered correctly. Another put the card in the wrong box. Those carrying goods and persons may encounter different circumstances that affect the situation. Travellers may need breaks. They may linger far too long at pauses. An away match can get time moved. The committee points out that the Swedish Transport Agency has recently investigated the issue of allowing deviations from driving and rest time rules and found that there is insufficient justification for any general tolerances. Furthermore, on 1 March 2018, a number of adaptations were made. Madam President, I would like I note, however, that the regulatory framework for driving and rest times in the haulage industry is not always adapted to the reality and that there is a lack of flexibility in exceptional events, for example. During my study visits, I have listened to the views of those who work in the industry and received quite a few clear examples of when unexpected events may occur. It can be about everyday handling of vehicles where errors have had consequences or extraordinary events due to weather conditions. An example came from Norrbotten. Difficult weather conditions forced the evacuation of passengers from a train, and this became problematic because of the regulations surrounding it. As far as carriers are concerned, these events mean that high penalties are imposed in the event of non-compliance with the regulatory framework. That is why I and the Liberals believe that it is important to monitor the functioning of the regulatory framework. Has the company failed in the company's information, training or routines about the rules? Or are we talking about the mistakes of individual drivers? Against this background, it is important, we believe, to continue to monitor the regulation of driving and rest times and to follow up the changes that are being made. Madam President, I would like Freight transport and passenger transport by road are very important parts of our transport system. Many who are active are small businesses. Parliament should consider how regulations affect not least smaller companies. There are approximately 16 700 companies with a commercial transport licence. Of these, 91 per cent have 0 - 9 employees. In the passenger transport industry, including the taxi industry, there are 900 companies with a commercial licence. But there is a shortage of professional drivers. It complicates the generational shift in companies. Liberals have put forward several proposals on how to train more people. We hope that in the long term these proposals will make it easier to recruit professional drivers. We will come back to this in another debate. However, it must be made easier to recruit professional drivers. Sweden needs a well-functioning transport sector on our roads. It is a question of mobility. Sweden is an elongated and sparsely populated country with industries that need transport. We depend on the transport of both goods and people. There's a lot more to do. This debate is not about 74-ton vehicles, which need a road network, or about individual roads, which also have to cope with freight transport. Nor is it about alco-boms in ports, electric roads, electric vehicles or climate-smart fuels. However, these are factors that are also needed for us to have a functioning transport system for both goods and people.
i-jsBAcqj77hmAbshviHQ18	Madam President, I would like We deal with the proposals Prolonged complaints and Customer responsibility for order and order on the roads. These are proposed amendments to the Act on measures to prevent further travel, the Act amending the Commercial Transport Act and the Act amending the Taxi Transport Act. The legislative changes mean that the deadline for calling is extended and that the ordering responsibility is tightened up. According to the Act, measures in the form of the disposal of certain property or the chopping of a vehicle may be taken to ensure that the vehicle does not drive further if certain rules in the field of road transport are found to have been infringed during a roadside inspection. These measures will hopefully lead to better compliance with laws and rules and payment of additional penalties in the field of road transport. Madam President, I would like The bill also proposes changes to the criminal law rules on ordering liability in the Professional Traffic Act and the Taxi Traffic Act. The proposals mean that the customer responsibility is tightened up. It is proposed that the client concluding a contract with the railway undertaking check that the transport is carried out on the basis of the correct authorisation. It is also proposed to extend the range of clients who can be held liable if a shipment has taken place without the right authorisation to all those who have entered into contracts for the transport in question. According to the proposal, all clients in a contract chain may be held liable if the client has known or had reasonable grounds to believe that the authorisation was not available. The proposals aim to increase compliance in the field of professional and taxi transport. Only professional clients can be held liable. Madam President, I would like The Swedish haulage industry consists of approximately 10 000 haulage companies, which together have a turnover of more than SEK 100 billion. This represents 4% of Sweden's gross domestic product. Although it is important that more goods transport for environmental and climate reasons be transferred to rail or maritime transport, the haulage industry is essential for society's goods production and transport and actively contributes to the development of our country. The Swedish haulage industry is currently exposed to fierce and unhealthy international competition. The fraud in the haulage industry is widespread and must be taken very seriously. Unserious operators do not pay contractual wages and ignore environmental and cabotage rules. There is a risk that this will knock out serious players in the market. It is important to review the conditions in the haulage industry in order to contribute to regulatory compliance and to promote competition on equal terms. That is why we in the Christian Democrats welcome a tightening up of cabotage rules. In the event of misuse, vehicles should be able to be detained for 36 hours. A tightening up of customer responsibility for transport should apply to the whole chain, as we from the Christian Democrats have been calling for for a long time. The Christian Democrats have contributed to a tougher grip on cabotage offences in order to create a level playing field. The penalty fee – fine – has become a sanction fee, and police officers can demand payment on the spot of the penalty fee. In the event of non-payment of the fine of SEK 40 000, a policeman has the possibility to lock the vehicle by so-called "sticking" for 24 hours. This possibility only applies when penalties are imposed for infringements of driving and rest times and abuse of cabotage rules, not in the case of traffic fines, such as speeding. At present, a vehicle may only be trampled for 24 hours. The Christian Democrats have proposed a tightening of the law so that vehicles can be trampled for longer than 24 hours, until the fines have been paid. The government has now proposed to extend the time for squeezing to 36 hours. We welcome this tightening up of the rules and, of course, we had hoped for a longer time to apply until the penalty fee is paid. That would have been a more reasonable measure. However, there is every reason to come back to this and to follow up on the question of further tightening up cabotage rules in order to counter fraud and fine rogue hauliers. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats have also been a driving force to make police controls on transport more effective, for example by making clear which documents the driver should be able to present. I would like to stress the importance of the possibilities for the police and customs to ensure compliance with the laws and regulations applicable to both Swedish and foreign hauliers in Sweden. In order to increase road safety and enforcement of laws and regulations, the development of fewer and fewer traffic police officers needs to be reversed. Compliance with laws and road safety requires more resources for the police. It is necessary to succeed in curbing cheating and unsound competition. The Christian Democrats are investing more resources in the coming years to increase the number of police officers and increase security in society. We have proposed 10 000 more police officers, better equipment and higher salaries to get more police officers to stay and to get more people to choose to train as police officers. Madam President, I would like In April 2017, at the initiative of the Alliance, a parliamentary majority called on the Government to urgently set up an investigation to strengthen the competitiveness of the Swedish haulage industry. This investigation has not yet been set up, which is both remarkable and regrettable. We can see that there is widespread fraud in the haulage industry, where rogue hauliers dump prices and compete out established serious hauliers who comply with the law, and that this is something that needs to be taken very seriously. In order to overcome the problems, different types of measures are needed. The Swedish Parliament has on several occasions highlighted the need for a stronger client responsibility and has also addressed an announcement to the Government about the need for a review of the rules on customer responsibility in the field of professional transport. The Christian Democrats therefore consider it positive that the government has now returned to Parliament with a proposal for a number of changes to the legislation to tighten up the client responsibility. The Christian Democrats have previously proposed that ordering responsibility should apply to the entire transport chain in order to curb cheating in the industry. We welcome the government's initiative to strengthen the ordering responsibility for transport to the entire transport chain. The Christian Democrats believe that this is an important measure to promote compliance in the haulage sector, as well as competition on equal terms. At the same time, we would like to point out in this context the importance of following up the tightening up of client responsibility over time to see whether they lead to the creation of order and order of the roads through increased compliance in the field of professional and taxi transport. Consequently, the effectiveness of the new rules can also be assessed in the future. Madam President, I would like With this, I support the Christian Democrats' motivational reservation No 9.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-748	Madam President, I would like When you sit here listening to the debate, you can only be overwhelmed. Everyone who has been up in the speaker's chair has talked about the problems that exist in the haulage industry, which suggests that there are major problems. I really only have one small simple question for Robert Halef. On the Government's proposal for extended complaints, we Swedish democrats launched a follow-up motion to extend the spell until the penalty fee has been paid. Happily, I could hear Robert Halef standing in the speaker's seat saying that he wanted this too. My question to Robert Halef is therefore: why did Robert Halef and the KD not support the Swedish Democrats' motion to extend the spell until the penalty fee has been paid?
i-5077579284a4ec5c-751	Madam President, I would like I thank Jimmy Ståhl for the question. If Jimmy had read the report, I think he would have found the answer to his question. All parties in the committee have called for a tightening of cabotage rules to cover more than 24 hours, as it is today. Now, after an investigation, the government has come to the conclusion that 36 hours will apply from a couple of months. It has turned out that there are EU rules that do not allow this to be done for more than 36 hours. There are also other practical questions that make it impossible to detain someone else's property indefinitely. It is the practical aspects, the legal aspects, that make it possible for us to go no further than that in this particular case today. For this reason, I said in my speech that we are looking forward to Sweden perhaps being able to obtain an exemption and to ensure that EU rules and laws are amended so that the vehicles can be kept until the penalty fee of SEK 40 000 has been paid. In this way, we can overcome this unhealthy competition and cheating in the haulage industry.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-753	Madam President, I would like Of course, I share Mr Halef's concern that 36 hours is far too little. The problem is that it took three and a half years to investigate this in order to present 12 extra hours of squeezing. During that time one should have been able to investigate 48 hours or up to a year. Personally, I find it pathetic that only 12 extra hours have been squeezed. The report shows that there may be problems with court sprinklings and other things. We do not know, because it is not clear to the extent that should happen. We could well push the government and press for at least 48 hours in a first position. But when the new law is in place, I expect us to go hand in hand and force the next government to extend the spell. Are you in on it, Robert Halef?
i-5077579284a4ec5c-755	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jimmy Ståhl! The Christian Democrats have proposed longer than 36 hours. We want the penalty to be paid before the vehicles can be released and driven away. We will, of course, monitor this issue and follow developments, as I said in my speech. Just as Jimmy Ståhl mentioned in his speech, the goal is that those who use this system will only let the vehicles stand for over 36 hours and then come and get in the truck and drive on. It's not supposed to be like that. However, we must do it properly, and we will follow up on that. In fact, according to the information contained in the report, there are some legal issues that prevent this, but of course we shall follow this and try to correct it so that the clamping will simply apply until the fine is paid.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-758	Madam President, I would like Today we are going to deal with a very important report, namely the one on professional transport. It is a very important report from the committee every year that is being discussed in this House. This year we will also have to deal with two proposals, one on client responsibility and the other on extended classing. Let mi g start by saying At last we have come so far that we get a bill on extended customer responsibility. During my time in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, we Social Democrats have been fighting to bring this about since 2010. Under the previous alliance government, it was the cold hand. That won't be necessary, it was said. You said you can't do this. There's no follow-up. Or maybe it was just good as it was. These are the messages we received from the minister responsible on the matter. But it wasn't like that at all. It wasn't good the way it was. Contractors of transport have always been able to slip away from their responsibility for a well-functioning transport market with the best conditions for drivers by hiring subcontractors in endless stages. That possibility will now be blocked. We will now have a system whereby those who receive a transport assignment are also obliged to ensure that this is done under fair conditions even with any subcontractors – just as Robert Halef was in his speech. It is important to note that this is now in place. This means that taxes and charges must be paid. Drivers must have reasonable conditions for their work, and the agreement they make on the rest of the transport must also be complied with. In the haulage industry, there is something called Fair Transport, which is exactly in line with this, i.e. an increased customer responsibility. So this is a joyous day for all of us who have struggled to get a level playing field in a transport industry that will behave well against all those who do the work. Madam President, I would like In this context, I must draw the House's attention to the surprising statements made by MEP Peter Lundgren of the Swedish Democrats in Malmö some time ago in connection with a debate on the conditions of the haulage industry. MEP means "member of the European Parliament", if someone is not aware of it. I choose to remove the invectives he used, but the essence of his statement was that the proposal on customer responsibility would be put in the trash. It didn't go anywhere; it was just beating blue thunder in the eyes of people even to perform something like this, he said, and he thought that this proposal should never have come forward and that it should be rejected. I would therefore like to ask Jimmy Ståhl whether what MEP Lundgren said is the view of the Swedish Democrats, that this proposal does not lead anywhere and really belongs in the trash. If so, what do you want instead of the order responsibility that is now being put forward? If that is not the case, how do you, from the Swedish Democrats, intend to act to correct the errors that Lundgren has spread around? The agriculture industry in southern Sweden has heard what he has said, and if it is not the policy of the Swedish democrats, you must at least correct the errors. But maybe it's pretty good that someone's out talking about this in a certain way, and then you say you don't really think so. That way you can both eat the cake and keep it. Perhaps that is the policy of the Swedish democrats in this area, what I know. Madam President, I would like I note that this year there are unusually few movements in this area. Earlier in the years we have had very many important exercises to deal with in the field of professional traffic. Of course, it has often been with taxis, but even in the taxi report that comes in a few weeks' time, there are quite few movements. One might wonder what happened when it came to exercise writing. I simply believe that so much is happening in the field of professional transport that there is not much more to write about. I think it is one of the explanations that needs to be given, and if we explain in more detail what has happened during the term of office that we are about to leave, we can see that that is how it is. We have a very powerful government in this area. With regard to clapping and cabotage, which has been discussed a great deal here, was introduced from March 2015, I think it was new rules which meant that an infringement of the rules on road cabotage transport would lead to a sanction fee of SEK 40 000. It was the alliance government that, after much about and but put forward a bill in this area. The bill was presented in August after having had eight years to do something, to use your logic now. Now I do not really think it had eight years, but we addressed announcements in this area to the then government throughout my time in committee, from 2010 onwards. But nothing happened. This meant that the parliament whose time expired in 2014 could not deal with the matter. We had to take over the bill. We saw that the proposal was rather hollow, and the decision that Parliament then made, when an announcement was made to the government about the extension of the call, shows that the proposal put forward by the Alliance Government was not complete. There would have been a need for something more than what was presented. Now we chose to go forward with this, because we saw that it was more important to get something in place, something that we could start working from outside. Then we were able to investigate the continuation. In addition, the first proposal put forward had a fine of only SEK 20 000, a small tickling under the chin of those who commit the illegality. After some raids this was actually changed by the government to SEK 40 000, but it was after quite a lot of discussions with Catharina Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd, who was then minister in the area. From the outset, it was also only intended that it could be used in the event of serious threats to road safety. Then this was changed to cover cabotage offences, which is now the case. But as so often with the alliance government's proposals in this area, this was a hasty work. This is also shown by the announcements made by the Riksdag. Therefore, on 17 June last year, we amended the law to include cabotage offences. This was unclear, and the courts and prosecutors had to go in with regard to cabotage offences. We corrected it, and it changed. We listened to the criticism instead of turning it away from us, as the previous government did with regard to their hawthorn work. In addition, we have invested 100 million in the police in order to better control cabotage traffic. These are important measures that promote healthy competition in the haulage industry. Madam President, I would like Then we come to this with the nicest terms in customer responsibility. The Government gave 2015 – in the autumn I think it was – the Swedish Transport Agency to follow up on the implemented reforms in this area and investigate seven current issues in professional transport. Particular priority was given to the issue of stronger client responsibility. Firstly, as I said, the seven missions concerned reviewing the current regulation of client responsibility. There's a bill on the table. Secondly, it was necessary to examine whether the clamping could last longer than 24 hours. Also on this we have a bill on the table. In it there is an important distinction, namely that the police officer and customs officer should be able to make a complaint. It is important in this context, and we have, as we have said, the bill on the table. Thirdly, it is a question of reviewing the possibility of allowing minor deviations from the rules on driving and rest times. The amendments to the Regulation have been implemented. I will come back to that. Fourthly, it is a question of the Transport Agency considering different options for changing EU rules so that documentation requirements can be made directly in connection with roadside inspections of freight traffic. One should simply be able to show documentation. The Transport Agency should also monitor the ongoing work of the European Commission to develop new proposals in the field of road transport. The government is following the issue and pushing ahead within the so-called Road Alliance, that is, those countries that are pulling in the same direction within the EU as Sweden. This is something that the previous government did not want to be involved in. And why? Because you really wanted to liberalise the whole area, as Catharina Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd said in this House. The liberalisation that was being pursued by the Commissioner at the time was under way. Thankfully, we have now changed our minds on this issue, and that is a good thing. But at the time it was that way, and therefore Sweden was not allowed to be in the Road Alliance. Fifthly, we need to review the transposition of European Union rules on combined transport into Swedish law. This is now under preparation, and you look at it. But here we also need to push ahead with the European Union in order to bring about such changes in the rules. Sixthly, it is about identifying and analysing and, if necessary, proposing changes in the management and direction of Sweden's bilateral and multilateral road transport agreements. This is also an important piece that the Swedish Transport Agency was commissioned to look at. In particular, consideration would be given to the justification of changing conditions for third country transport. So it's about the TIR signs that you usually see on trucks. Seventh, the need for increased winter tyre requirements for heavy duty vehicles would be explored. We have dealt with this in Parliament in connection with the road safety report, and it has been implemented. I can only say that the government we now have supplies in the field of professional transport. Madam President, I would like I'll tell you something about driving and rest times. The system we have in Sweden has now changed so that in the case of minor offences, such as those that have been involved in the discussion now, the fees have been significantly reduced. They've gone down pretty bad. However, in the case of repeated offences, where infringements of driving and rest times are placed in a system, the charges have instead been significantly increased. It is up to 800 000 SEK from the previous 200 000 SEK. This came into force only in March, I think it was, this year. This means that when talking about driving and rest times today, many people are referring to the old system. They have no real experience of how the new works. It is important to say in this context. It is also important to say that making general exceptions to a system simply means moving the boundaries of those who want to cross driving and rest times. Then we will have a debate on the new limit, 5% or 10% or something, and in the end we do not really know what is going on in this area. It is also important to say that there is no possibility in the EU regulatory framework to depart from the regulatory framework we have in Sweden today. We have introduced some road safety-enhancing measures. The alcoboms have been up for discussion here before. They are now being introduced in all ports with passenger and lorry traffic. I remember what happened during the time of the previous government. Catharina Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd stood here in the speaker's chair and said: Yes, yes, I think it was good with that attempt. But now it was over, and now there would be no more of it. That is how the previous government viewed the alcoboms; it was like dragging the cat backwards when we talked about alcoboms. Sure, it was a good experiment that was carried out in Gothenburg. But then there was nothing more. It is therefore a good thing that attention has now been paid to this by the Alliance. In particular, Sten Bergheden spoke a great deal about alco-bommers in his speech. That's good. Sten Bergheden feels good being in opposition. Then he can even come up with good proposals, such as alcoboms. Sweden has now, as one of the last countries in Europe, banned the use of hand-held mobile phones and text messages, facebooks and everything you can do with a modern mobile phone while driving a car, truck or bus. Here, too, we met a great deal of resistance during the last parliamentary term. It was said it was anti-technology. Many classic statements from this speaker's chair were made by a representative of the Moderates in the debate in particular. But now this is done, and many, not least the Motormen, thank us for the reform. We have simplified the rules for the salvage of long vehicles. It makes it much easier for the haulage and bus industry when the accident has arrived. We have introduced provisions on winter tyres throughout the combination for trucks, both Swedish and foreign, which is important to remember, when there is winter road law. It is really incomprehensible that we have not had it before, but that has been the case. Remember, however, what a battle we had to take with the previous government here, too, just to carry this out on a drive shaft! It was a long argument we had to have in this area. Madam President, I would like We have now introduced provisions on heavy goods vehicles. First it was 64 tons and then 74 tons. Sometimes a large number is made of the fact that it is a fairly limited part of the road network that you get to drive on. We have had the Swedish Transport Administration with us in the Transport Committee, and we saw that they have lightened this up considerably. So there are considerably more miles of road now than it was in the first proposal. And the direction is clear: the entire road network will be opened up within a number of years. It will therefore be considerably expanded. I would like to say two things about this. First of all, if this was such an urgent issue for the Alliance as has been put forward, why was nothing done during your time? Nothing happened when it came to longer and heavier vehicles. All investigations were already in place at the time. The one-vehicle experiment between Överkalix and Piteå has been carried out. It was even extended, and you had to invest in a new car in order to continue the experiment. All the other attempts were made, but nothing happened. Secondly, I think it was realised that if you did this, you had to spend a lot more money on roads, and then you had to have a priority discussion: reducing taxes or spending more on roads? Invest more on Swedish competitiveness or lower taxes? They chose to reduce taxes. The competitiveness of industry was not chosen. And why would you do that? According to the Prime Minister, the industry was basically gone. Madam President, I would like Of course, much remains to be done in this area. We want a haulage industry with competition on equal and fair terms. One thing that concerns and which has also been expressed from here is how we can control this. We have had a significant decline in the number of traffic police, but that decline did not start four years ago. It started a long time earlier. Here, too, we can say that measures could have been taken earlier, but now we are where we are. The way I see it, we need to invest considerably more. It is also stated in the report that we should follow this issue on the part of the Committee on Transport and Tourism. One might also ask whether the new police organisation we have in place is really capable of dealing with the traffic issues with the regionalisation of everything. Perhaps it is necessary to consider making a national organisation in the field of traffic police. It is possible, but that is what we will have to look at in the future and see what we can do. We have to follow this issue, and I think it is very important that we also look at the function and role of car inspectors in this context. Madam President, I would like I have considerably exceeded my speaking time, but I would like to end by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and rejecting all reservations.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-801	Madam President, I would like Of which the heart is full, etc. Mr Leif Pettersson said about what is at the heart of the amendment that we are currently dealing with. My memory picture, Leif Pettersson, is that the then Minister Anna Johansson expressed an extraordinary pride in the law adopted by the Riksdag in 2015 when, if I do not remember correctly, she also participated in the debate and was very pleased. In the same report and the parliamentary debate, it was an announcement that this was to be followed up, and now follow-up came. We'll be careful. I also note, Leif Pettersson, that the Green Party's government partner clearly does not give priority to road safety issues such as Leif Pettersson. Pettersson also received their speaking time, because they do not participate in the debate. In a Ministry letter from the Ministry of Finance, which is currently being consulted, people talk hotly about distance-based road wear charge, i.e. kilometer tax in ordinary Swedish. This is something that would very dramatically change the competitive environment in the Swedish export industry and punish distances very severely. The letter talks a lot about GPS positioning in order to get road traffic in order and be able to control and prosecute infringements of cabotage rules and driving and rest times, etc. My question to Leif Pettersson, who has a good insight into the Government Office in that he represents a government party, is: Is kilometre tax and GPS positioning a cohesive fact in the government policy currently being conducted?
i-5077579284a4ec5c-806	Madam President, I would like The bill that we adopted on clapping was not so good, to perhaps express itself a little milder, but had to be remade. We realized it pretty quickly, and so were you. It's a fact that it was that way. That the Government was pleased that something at all came into place, one may well talk to her about. As far as the road user tax is concerned, no one has made any proposals today regarding levels of tax or money to be collected or anything like that. There are no proposals in this area. What has been sent out as a letter for referral is about a system where you first and foremost treat Swedish and foreign vehicles in the same way. We can't just introduce GPS positioning a little hip like hip and say that only foreign vehicles should have it, but in that case we have to make sure that all vehicles in Sweden have exactly the same way as when we come to other countries that have such systems and our vehicles from Sweden must have transponders of different kinds. I think it is important to point out in this context that this issue is not at all ready for discussion yet. It is out for a referral, and what it will give is difficult to say today, because we do not know that. Furthermore, it is an issue that the Committee on Taxation is probably going to deal with, so that is not even a real question for us.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-809	Madam President, I would like It is quite clear that former Minister Johansson and Member Pettersson have very different views on the bill that was handled in 2014 and that Pettersson just called hasty and that Johansson was very proud of. But it's history. It is quite right, Mr Pettersson, that kroner numbers are not mentioned in the department letter that is sent for referral. It can be a kilometre tax of 20, 30 or 40 SEK per mile – you can't relate to that. However, the Ministry letter strongly argues for better order in professional traffic through better control. Fine, check it out, says the Center Party and I. But my question was how compulsory GPS positioning in order to get order is intertwined with the kilometer tax Social Democracy forcefully argues for. That's what I want to hear. Of course, you don't send out referral material from the Ministry of Finance a little bit on a gamble, but of course you have a deeper thought than that. Is it possible, Pettersson, that you know that the kilometre tax is deeply unpopular but that you disguise it in words about order and order and GPS? There are no technical connections or conditions to keep track of the vehicles that drive in our country with GPS positioning and to connect with a distance-based road wear charge or mileage tax. There is no such thing, but I still want to hear Leif Pettersson's argument for why it has been linked together.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-811	Madam President, I would like The reason this is connected is obvious. If we're gonna keep track of all the cars, it has to be done by GPS positioning. It must also be possible to check that the transponders are actually on. It is a system that will, of course, cost money to implement. That's why you have to make sure you collect revenue for it. If it should then be that you do some kind of tax exchange when you introduce this or if it should be in some other way, we do not know yet. What you're looking at now is how the system should work. To paint a certain potent on the wall and say that this would cost 40 mil you should be careful of in this case. It may be that this is a completely neutral system that does not collect any money but instead keeps track of the roads. It may well be that way. It's an opportunity, but we don't know that yet. I think it's important that you actually look at this. Remember another thing, too. When we said earlier – this I almost thought Anders Åkesson would come to see – that we would pick up 4 billion in this way it was a situation when the public finances were in a bad condition, to say the least. It's not like that anymore. Therefore, for that reason, we do not need to say that we should have a large surplus in the system. What is now being looked at is the system itself, not any levels of taxation.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-813	Madam President, I would like I couldn't help but take a line at Leif Pettersson. Leif Pettersson is in a sinking ship of declining poll numbers. At the same time, he is standing in the speaker's chair and ralliing over something that Peter Lundgren has said. I have good contact with Peter Lundgren; it is true that he thinks that the customer responsibility is meaningless. It is checked whether there is a permit to drive goods on the road. That's not the problem. The problem is that you break all the rules and that we have too few cops to control it. What thoughts does the government have about solving the problem in the short term, Leif Pettersson? However, it may not be possible to resolve this in the short term, given how long it took to investigate twelve hours of prolonged classing.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-816	Madam President, I would like With regard to extended clamping, I refer to what Nina Lundström said about the possibilities of trampling for more than 36 hours. Jimmy Ståhl may instead want a court hearing that may take weeks. During that time a truck can drive quite far. And then we won't have time to catch a single one. But it is up to Jimmy Ståhl to pursue such a question in that case. It is remarkable that a representative of a parliamentary party – in this case, although a Member of the European Parliament, nevertheless – can express himself in this way in a debate. At the same time, the Swedish Democrats are not putting forward any motion in the Riksdag to skip ordering responsibility and to have something else instead. For something else must be in place instead, or is it just good as it is? You have to ask yourself that question. I think I am leaning towards the explanation that I had at the end of that part of my speech. You want to eat the cake and keep it, Jimmy Ståhl. You both want to be able to yell at proposals that this government has put forward and at the same time say, "No, we are in. You use that tactic in many other matters. Take only gains in welfare, for example. There you were at first, but then you said something like that would not be put forward. The Swedish Democrats are an unreliable party, a deeply unreliable party that can express itself in virtually any way in any question. But you don't have a line.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-821	Madam President, I would like Again, I don't get any answers. Leif Pettersson had the humility to extend his speaking time by ten minutes. So he spoke twice as long as he had reported. But I didn't get much wiser about it. In Germany there is something called pay or stay. Why should we not have it in Sweden? You're stuck until you've paid, and you don't pay, you're stuck. I wish Leif Pettersson would answer the questions and therefore repeat them. What does Leif Pettersson intend to do to strengthen Swedish haulage industry in the short term? I suspect I won't get an answer this time either. If you are satisfied with the decay that is taking place in Sweden today, you should vote for Leif Pettersson's party. If you want change, you vote for something else.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-825	Madam President, I would like The election movement has crept into the Riksdag already now. It was noticed in Sten Bergheden's speech and on Jimmy Ståhl's line now. I think it is a bit sad, but it is just to say that this is the case. What we want to do to strengthen Swedish haulage industry in the short term is to introduce customer responsibility, and we have the clustering for a longer period of time. It's a matter of getting things straight. And we get that by introducing a customer responsibility, by ensuring that responsibility is really taken at all levels. That is exactly what Robert Halef presented in his speech. Maybe Jimmy Ståhl forgot to listen at the time, but it was a good speech from Robert Halef in that part. That is why I do not need to repeat it. For Swedish haulage industry, order and competition are important on equal terms. It is also important that we get more police officers in place. But it takes ten years to train traffic officers. And it is not the case that the decline in traffic police began four years ago. It's been happening for a long time. Policemen have searched from traffic missions to other missions because they have felt that there have been more important things to do. Nor has it been possible to recruit young police officers to become traffic police officers. Instead, we've started hiring car inspectors. We need to look at their skills, as I said in my speech. I think these are important measures for Swedish haulage industry. But it is also the case that the road haulage industry itself does what it can, and this is done through the Fair Transport initiative, which I would like once again to promote and pay tribute to.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-830	Madam President, I would like Of course, we are soon summarising four years with a Social Democratic government. With the facts in hand, we can conclude that what has been said before the elections has not been delivered. On the other hand, some other tentative attempts have been made to correct matters. But there's nothing out there on our roads. That was a long speech Leif Pettersson gave. But, in substance, it was extremely poor. It is only to be noted that the Social Democrats are really the most alert in opposition. That's when you work and work. Then you sit on your hands in a government position and do nothing. An investigation is being set up to move 12 hours to the time of clamping, and this investigation is going on for three and a half years, to conclude that it is not possible to push for more than 12 hours. In three and a half years, we would probably have been able to investigate most of the issues in the entire haulage industry. We could have looked at what could be the German model, to push until we really have caught them and got the fine. Instead, 12 hours were chosen. I have to ask, is Leif Pettersson happy with 12 hours? Is it really the right thing to do, as was said before the elections, Madam President? Have we reached that goal now? I asked a question in my speech to which I would like an answer. I thought that in his long speech of almost 20 minutes, Leif Pettersson will now be devoting himself to answering that question. But no, he didn't do that in a single word. We want a competition investigation to assess the competitive situation of Swedish haulage industry vis-à-vis foreign hauliers. When's that investigation coming? We should be able to get that answer. In fact, the Parliament has supported this, and it would be reasonable to start investigating the competitive situation before you investigate new taxes.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-836	Madam President, I would like I'll start with the competition investigation. In that debate, I pointed out to Sten Bergheden that that investigation is to blow the air, but of course he did not listen to that. The Swedish Transport Agency constantly investigates the conditions of competition. The Swedish Transport Agency's instructions state that the Swedish competition situation should be reviewed. So it is done on an ongoing basis. You don't have to set up an investigation and wait for several years for a result, because that's what would happen in that case. So it's a blow in the air that doesn't mean anything. With regard to this 36-hour clarification, I would have liked to have seen that we could have had more time, but that is not possible now. It is not possible to have more time without a court procedure. Sten Bergheden knows that if there is to be court proceedings, it will be very long before we can take any action. Then the truck has already driven a long way and is gone. It's gone with the wind, so to speak. So this will only be another blow to the air when it comes to the possibility of remedying the errors that exist. Sten Bergheden, for eight years we had an alliance government in Sweden. Can you mention a single proposal that the alliance government implemented or put forward here in Parliament that improved the situation of Swedish haulage industry? I can't because there's nothing.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-840	Madam President, I would like I can't list it all. We introduced the first step in ordering responsibility. We introduced experiments with alco-bommers. We introduced requirements for winter tyres on the drive axle. There were some parts. We also launched an investigation to bring about fair competition on our roads. There we came up with a lot of proposals, which we then expected the next government, in this case the Social Democratic Government, to continue to operate. Instead, you began investigating new taxes for the haulage industry. I take it that Leif Pettersson and the government are not going to set up an investigation into the competitive situation. On the other hand, one might consider introducing an additional tax on diesel of SEK 1 or 1.50 without having any control. If you had looked at the competitive situation, you would have thrown the tax increase on diesel and petrol into the wastebasket, because it makes competition even worse. In this situation, even the idea of introducing an additional kilometre tax that would affect one of the countries in Europe that are most dependent on long-distance transport will – it goes without saying – distort competition even more. Nevertheless, I would like answers to a few further questions. Leif opened the door for us to look at a police officer who is better organized in terms of traffic control, i.e. similar traffic police. The Germans have BAG. We Moderates have exercised and pushed for this. Is Leif prepared to look at this in order to have a clearer traffic police? It would certainly be better if we could get that function more pure. The alcoboms were ready for use. The investigation was completed, and the bars were set up, first in Gothenburg, then in Frihamnen in Stockholm. But when the Social Democrats took over, they closed it. They didn't do anything. They even left the alcoboms to Finland in the meantime, instead of putting them up in Swedish ports. So now we don't have any alcoboms. Why aren't there any alcoboms? When are they coming?
i-5077579284a4ec5c-844	Madam President, I would like Let me start with fuel prices. The reason we have such high fuel prices today is not the fuel tax, but the weak Swedish krona and a president on the other side of the big water – Trump is his last name. It is he who, through his moves on the Iran agreement, has ensured that oil prices have risen. Then we have a weak Swedish crown. Sten Bergheden and others in this House know that monetary policy is the responsibility of the Riksbank. There, the government can do nothing. Today we have very low interest rates in Sweden. This means that we have a weak Swedish crown. This means that we get high import prices for diesel and petrol, among other things. These are the reasons why the price has gone up right now. In the case of experimental activities, this is the case: all experimental equipment, including the electric road test, must be dismantled when the experiment is over. These are the rules on experimentation in our country. This Parliament has decided on this. This means that when the experiment with alco-bommers was over, the alco-bommers had to be dismantled. In order to reach a decision on the alcoboms that existed in Gothenburg, a discussion was required that was endless. Sten Bergheden was not particularly interested in introducing them. The government said: No, we don't. They can cost money, and it can be difficult for the haulage industry in some way. Here come the alcoboms.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-848	Madam President, I would like I note that Leif Pettersson said that the government has done everything and that there are therefore not so many motions to debate here. I would like to remind Leif Pettersson that we have a breakdown where our proposals are contained in various reports. I listed a number of different issues that I think are very much related to the industry issues that we are talking about right now. I am not going to repeat everything that has been said, but I think that there is still reason to ask Leif Pettersson some questions about what the situation really looks like. On the trips that I have made since the introduction of the new law on driving and rest periods, I have been able to note that there are still comments from those who work in the industry that it is blunt. Entrepreneurs want to do the right thing, but there's a bluntness. If there is an error due to the human factor, the consequences will still be very tough. I would therefore like to ask whether Leif Pettersson recognizes that picture. How do Leif Pettersson and the government intend to follow up on the regulatory changes that came now? They are, of course, about penalties, and there are a few different applications in different countries. The entrepreneurs want to do the right thing. They want the system to be effective, and they want help along the way. How does Leif Pettersson plan to follow it up? When the Swedish Transport Agency did the investigation, it was very clear what it was not looking at and what was not included in the mission. Here, then, we have looked at the sanctioning fee itself. I would be grateful if Leif Pettersson could develop what measures you are prepared to take, if you now think there is a problem.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-852	Madam President, I would like Now the rules haven't been in operation for long. Perhaps you should let them appear for a while first and then see how the outcome will be. Thus, the fee for simpler infringements is reduced to SEK 5 000, and it is significantly increased for those who commit systematic violations of the rules. I think that is the right way to go. Those who try to exploit a system or sit above it should pay a lot. The others shouldn't have to pay. I guess we'll see what that leads to. Remember, too, what the Swedish Transport Agency said to us when they were with us on the committee. For example, if you have a few kilometres left home and drive that route, even though it means that you violate driving and rest times, you can make a proper note of it and write why you have violated the rules. Then you don't get a penalty at all. It is also an opportunity that exists. But then you have to follow the rules that exist. You can't just shrug your shoulders and say, "Oh, what the hell, we're gonna have to pay anyway!" Excuse the expression! If you really strive to follow the rules that exist, this is not a big problem. I've also met quite a few haulage companies that run under nice conditions. They say driving and resting times are not a problem. On the other hand, competition is a problem that they want us to do something about. We must be able to follow what others are doing, speaking of the debate I had with Anders Åkesson here earlier. Let the system work for a while. Then we will have to evaluate what has happened and see if further changes in the levels need to be made.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-857	Madam President, I would like Leif Pettersson and I fully agree that there should be fair conditions and that we should ensure that this works. Those who don't behave should pay. Penalties shall be imposed. However, it is interesting to note how many small businesses out there are really trying to do the right thing. Those I have listened to can make quite simple measures. You feel like it's pretty tough. The reason I asked the question was that the majority text of the report deals with parallels with other countries within the EU. On p. 22 it says this: Most countries issue a warning if there are only a few minor infringements. Then I'll be a little perplexed. With this in the majority text, and it is not the proposal that is on the table, I wonder a little bit what it stands for. Secondly, on paragraphs 22 and 23: Member States' control officials should rather focus on a professional approach in the performance of controls, taking into account all possible circumstances in the individual case. I believe that this kind of wording is about looking at the whole, but the proposals do not contain it. I think we need to follow up on the new rules. If it is not just about the sanctioning fee, but also about other types of measures that are needed, I think it is very important to convey it. That is why we in the Liberals have chosen to reserve ourselves in favour of our own motion, where we highlight the human factor but also the extraordinary events that no one can afford. Among other things, it is about Norrbotten, where there was a storm that affected the train traffic very much. It was about evacuating passengers. I think it is absolutely necessary to follow up on this, like many other measures, in order to facilitate not least for the smaller hauliers and entrepreneurs out there.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-865	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is, but, of course, when there are emergencies, the necessary measures must be taken. It was such a situation in that storm when you needed to evacuate a train. Unfortunately, it is often the case that there is no road on the side of the railway that makes it possible to evacuate. But that's another problem. Then there is what the report says. One is a description of how things are in other countries. The second relates to the provisions that we now have. You cannot lay down rules on how individual officials should behave – you cannot do that. We are now setting up a system. What is clearly said is that charges for minor infringements should be reduced. They can write explanations for why something has happened and so on, and then they get no fees at all. In this way, it is also an indication of what is important to look at for those dealing with the issue. It is more important to look at those who commit systematic violations, those who are really the bad guys, if you can put it that way, in this context. Because they are using staff improperly, and we cannot accept that. So is Nina Lundström. I think that is the important thing here. Driving and rest periods are not meant to mess with anyone, they are simply meant for drivers and employees to have decent working conditions. It's really important.
i-5077579284a4ec5c-869	Madam President, I would like The Left Party would prefer to have recourse until the penalties are paid, but as this proposal is now being tabled and it will be tested, we are waiting. But in the longer term, we want to see it. It is very good that the follow-up obligation is discussed when it comes to customer responsibility. We need to have a proper client responsibility in which we can really get a holistic grip on the situation in order to deal with the disadvantages. At the same time, however, it is important to point out that we will need resources to monitor this. This has been seen in Finland. You have a customer responsibility, but it's pretty hard to follow it up, because there aren't enough resources for the police. We must try to find systems here. It can be digital systems or some kind of smart system that takes height for this. If you think it through properly, you might be able to capture that perspective. It is important to take this with you. When it comes to the police and resources, I would also like to say that we need a redistribution of resources in society. We've been putting the resources pretty wrong for quite some time. We do not prioritise the most important first, not security and not basic functions, as we did perhaps 10 to 20 years ago. Recently, we have allowed short-term profit, so to speak, to take precedence. Officials who make decisions, architects who design houses, engineers and so on have been given assignments where you squeeze out profits and rather want it to look flashy or stylish than that it should be functional, safe and robust. The same applies to the redistribution of resources in society and when we ensure that we have enough resources and margins to the police and so on. Here we need to have a culture where we think of the whole and where we take the most important thing first, because we are now in such a situation in society that we see very many crises because we have prioritised errors. This applies to society and the increased divides, but also to the climate. With this, I would like to skip to the whole liberalisation of the haulage industry and the problems we see with cabotage, which, of course, also comes from a kind of liberalisation from the European Union. We have reduced transport prices so that they have become unreasonably cheap. We have, as it were, layers on the roads instead of in the shops. This whole process has led us to dump working conditions. We have unreasonable working conditions for the haulage industry. It is very good that we are now getting a wide range of measures in place that can regulate this. It's about clapping, ordering responsibility, and so on. But we also need to take a bigger holistic approach and ensure that we build robust and functionally. If it's transport, there should be margins. They will pay for their climate impact, and they will pay what it costs. We should perhaps move towards a more transport-efficient society if we are to meet the climate targets, but those working in the haulage industry should be paid fairly. It should be safe for traffic and so on. So there needs to be a kind of cultural approach. Then it applies to GPS in connection with the mileage tax. It is very important that the GPS issue is included in that discussion. Germany is a model. They have very good control of their haulage companies, because they have GPS. It is good that we are aware of this and that we are working in that direction, but the kilometre tax will be needed together with GPS.
