i-c1aaa2c911722d47-4	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for approval by the Committee on Finance's proposal in the FiU8 report. In the summer of 2018, we will remember. We will remember the summer for its warm sunny days but also for the weather consequences with hard fires and an extensive drought for the country's farmers. In many parts of the country old heat records were being fought, and summer's drought created a crisis for Swedish farmers. We experienced the worst drought in Sweden in 260 years. But in the tracks of heat and drought we also experienced enormous solidarity where the Swedish people really stood up for each other. It was farmers who helped each other, municipalities that did their bit to find land and to increase the consumption of farmers' products, and citizens who chose Swedish-produced food in the shop. The Social Democratic-led government, the authorities and the industry worked hard. Already at the end of July, the government presented a national package of just over SEK 1.2 billion. This reinforcement will help more farmers to cope with a higher cost of feed and thus also limit the early culling of animals. Sweden had support on the ground quickly and was the first of all EU countries to support their farmers. What we are discussing today in the amending budget is support in the short term of SEK 400 million that farmers can already take part of in 2018. The government has used the system as far as possible. Just 400 million is what is possible to pay out on the basis of the EU acquis. In the short term, we see that there is a need for farmers with milk, beef and lamb production to buy feed now at the end of the year. The urgent aid that we are discussing today is therefore aimed above all at supporting these producers. Many farmers have also had to put their animals in line for slaughter because of this exceptional summer. In order to mitigate the financial consequences, it is also proposed that SEK 60 million be added to temporarily reduce the fees for public controls carried out in Sweden. These funds can lower the official control fee to the EU minimum level for all slaughterhouses in the country. The reduction of fees also contributes to increasing the profitability and competition of the Swedish slaughterhouse industry and the livestock sector in the rest of the world. Thankfully, autumn harvests were good. The queues to the slaughterhouses have thus been reduced. In parallel with the proposal for financial support, the government, together with our authorities and the Federation of Farmers, LRF, has turned every stone around to find ways to alleviate the damage caused by drought. This intensive work led to the rapid adoption of over 20 different measures. These were decisions on regulatory simplifications, guidelines, information for victims and more. Dialogue and close cooperation with the industry have been very valuable and important in alleviating the consequences of the crisis, but also in learning from what has been and strengthening agriculture in the long term. We Social Democrats want to see a stronger society and safer Sweden. In our Sweden we stand up for each other when the crisis comes. That is also why the government acted quickly and developed this crisis package, which is why we are here with the draft amending budget to provide support to farm owners affected by the extreme drought in 2018. The Social Democratic-led government has also already announced that it will set aside 760 million to cover the consequences of the drought in 2019. Here, the Swedish Board of Agriculture has been tasked with developing, together with the industry, proposals on how these future funds should be distributed as fairly as possible. It will be interesting to hear today how the other parties are reasoning on this issue. Do you set aside funds for continued support in 2019 and how much? I believe that not only I but, above all, the Swedish farmers expect answers to this question. Mr President, I would like to There is a saying that reads: No evil that brings no good. In the case of drought, it is good that it has made visible the farmers, the green economy and their great importance to society. On the basis of the climate change that is now taking place, we must expect to face similar crises in the future. It is therefore important that we continue our work to strengthen our Swedish agriculture in the long term. We want Swedish food production to increase. It provides jobs in rural areas while strengthening sustainable development and producing good quality food with high environmental and animal welfare requirements.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-14	Mr President, I would like to Summer's extensive drought has hit Swedish farmers hard. Today we are debating what politics can and should do to help. But before I go into it, I would like to highlight the enormous efforts of civil society during and after the crisis. Farmers have helped each other. Other entrepreneurs have set up, and private individuals have opened up land and much more. All these efforts have been invaluable and rapid in a way rarely achieved by politics. That said, political action is also needed. It is urgent that money should be released as soon as possible to those affected. That is why it is a good thing that the government has tabled the supplementary amending budget, although we Moderates would have liked to have seen a different form. At the same time, the crisis clearly shows a bigger and more long-term problem that the Moderates have been pointing out for a long time, namely that the agricultural sector in Sweden has too low margins. Sweden's farmers find it difficult to build sufficient economic shelters and are particularly vulnerable to extreme events. All we know for sure is that new crises will come. It can be about weather, pest attacks and many other things. Coping with such crises without crisis support requires greater resilience, built up through more reasonable regulatory frameworks and lower cost levels. With better conditions, Swedish agriculture stands firmer on its own. It can develop and continue to be a world leader in quality and sustainability. Mr President, I would like to Instead of the crisis package that is on the table today, the Moderates would have liked to see a more comprehensive crisis package that dealt with the acute problems caused by the summer drought and the long-term competitiveness problems of Swedish agriculture. First of all, with regard to emergency aid, it is obviously essential that it should be designed in such a way that no victims are excluded. It is remarkable, for example, that the Swedish pig farmers are not allowed to benefit from the aid. It is also serious that the government has planned to increase the tax on the affected industries from 1 January 2019 by increasing the diesel tax on them. It eats up a large part of crisis support. We Moderates believe that this increase should have been stopped immediately and instead implemented a powerful reduction, even retroactively from July 2018. There would also have been more. I shall now turn to the longer term perspective. If we are to strengthen agriculture and Swedish food production, which we agree we want to do, we will need greater and more long-term work with regulatory simplifications and generally reduced cost levels. The tax on agricultural diesel must be stabilised at a lower level than at present. This is not in contrast to investing in green transitions within the green industries. On the contrary – only a viable farm has muscles to make important investments and change. In addition to reduced taxes, agriculture needs lower costs in the form of a reduced regulatory burden. A Swedish government must be a driving force in the work on regulatory simplification and harmonisation within the EU. We Moderates also want a regular review of Swedish special requirements. And perhaps most importantly: We need better management and governance in public services so that agencies support and promote, do not make things more difficult and costly. An extremely important part of strengthening Swedish food production is to increase demand for Swedish products both here and internationally. One such way is clearer labelling of meat so that consumers can make active choices even at a restaurant. Another is to strengthen knowledge of the requirements of the contracting sector. We Moderates also want to see improved conditions for increased food exports and more applied research in the food sector. In conclusion, effective and accurate help is needed here and now. But the events of the summer clearly demonstrate the obligation for us politicians to act for better conditions with lower taxes, less hassle and enhanced competitiveness. Finally, it is difficult to point out in this context that the summer crisis was seriously exacerbated for many farmers as a result of the breakdown of society in recent years. The state has completely failed in its commitment to paying agricultural aid to those who are entitled to it. At this time, the affected farmers are still owed a total of SEK 335 million for 2016 and 2017. At least until recently, there were those farmers waiting for support from 2015. That, Mr President, is nothing more than a scandal. The supplementary amending budget, which we are debating today, is a way for the government to correct its budget for this year. We do not support this budget and therefore do not propose any changes to it. In order to implement moderate policies, a completely different approach is needed, and we are therefore abstaining from the position on the supplementary amending budget.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-29	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maria Stenergard, for your speech. It is always nice to hear that we are engaged in Swedish agriculture. However, I have to ask you a question. You wanted to see faster payments, more support and so on. But when you look at your figures, you notice that you have cut a total of 290 million in this area, including 10 million to the Swedish Agriculture Agency. Then how can you speed up, get better and everything else? We were told by the Director of the Swedish Agriculture Agency at the Environment and Agriculture Committee meeting the other day that they have succeeded well recently and really hastened the payments. There have also been regulatory simplifications. In my speech, I asked a question about the coming for 2019. I am interested to hear your position on the 790 million announced by the Social Democratic-led government.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-32	Mr President, I would like to With regard to our future budgetary efforts, I must refer to the budgetary motion that the Moderates will be presenting shortly. It is the same with regard to investments in the Swedish Board of Agriculture. It is clear that it is gratifying that a small amount has now been repaid in addition to what has been paid out in the past. But it still remains over 330 million SEK, and it sounds like Malin Larsson is a bit satisfied with this. I find it difficult to understand how, as a representative of the Social Democrats, we can be satisfied that the state has completely failed to pay out to those who have now been so badly affected by the drought of the summer. It has hit extremely hard on those who have had large sums left to demand from the state. What do the Social Democrats intend to do in the future, first of all, to ensure that this does not happen again? I would like to ask you one more question. Malin Larsson was into the long-term perspectives. What measures do Malin Larsson and the Social Democrats want to take in the future to ensure that costs are reduced in the long term and the rules are reduced so that they can strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture?
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-36	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maria, for some answers. However, I did not get an answer to a question about something that I think not only I but also many of our farmers are interested in really knowing: will they receive the 760 million-dollar subsidy that the government has announced? Here Maria Stenergard refers instead to the budget. If I interpret her correctly, the Moderates cannot make a clear statement about it today. The farmers therefore do not know whether they will receive any other funds in 2019 as emergency aid due to the drought. Don't the Moderates intend to allocate any money for 2019 to those affected by the drought?
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-38	Mr President, I would like to I can reassure Malin Larsson; we will set aside money for those who have suffered from the drought. What concerns me, as I mentioned in my speech, is that, as of 1 January 2019, a large part of the crisis aid that the government has presented will be eaten up by a tax increase aimed at precisely the affected group. The agricultural diesel tax is to be increased from 2019. The government has announced that in the past. Do the Social Democrats still think this is a good idea? I would also like to hear Malin Larsson's position on the method recently advocated by the Swedish Board of Agriculture regarding the allocation of crisis support for next year. The Swedish Board of Agriculture has said that what gives the best accuracy is to use the parameters used to refund diesel tax. This is strange, because when we presented a rather comprehensive proposal for crisis support to Sweden's farmers this summer, Magdalena Andersson was doubtful, to say the least. She said that this is less accurate support, and yet it is this that the authority for which she is responsible goes forward. They recommend using the very method used for the refund of diesel tax. How do the Social Democrats view this?
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-40	Mr President, I would like to We verige democrats welcome the government's initiative for an extraordinary amending budget which will allow for emergency support for farmers affected by the severe drought this summer. We think it is important, but we also think that the funding is too small. In the case of an extraordinary amending budget, we cannot have a motion and propose a higher allocation, but if it had been possible, we would have done so. We would also have made the proposal differently. First of all, the aid lacks the most important analysis, namely that farmers have been systematically disadvantaged for several terms of office. The competitive situation of Swedish agriculture has become worse than that of other countries and therefore lacks margins today. This makes farming difficult to cope with unusual events. In this way, the crisis situation is partly constructed by wrong policies. In recent times, however, insights seem to have emerged about the situation of agriculture and that Sweden is on the wrong path and must take another road instead. I am thinking primarily of the objectives of the food strategy. The new insights are great, but they must be followed up with decisive political action. For long-term profitability, the competitive conditions for Swedish farmers must be more similar to those of competing farmers in other countries. Otherwise, other measures may not be effective. We propose that the diesel tax on agriculture and forestry be drastically reduced to the same level as in Denmark, i.e. 7 øre per litre. Farmers shall also receive compensation for the grazing requirement for dairy cows. It is also important to remove the general salary contribution for the first three employees. This together with, among other things, increased origin marking and more loyal procurements in the public sector Sweden can create good conditions for today's farmers and also new ones in a growing agricultural sector. I therefore appeal to all parties who sign their draft budgets at this point to create the conditions for improving the long-term profitability of agriculture. It is an absolutely necessary reform. As I said, the drying support is too small. The Swedish Board of Agriculture has tried to calculate the costs of the drought. Although it is a question of forecasts and rather uncertain figures, only for the livestock sector, which has been most affected, does the work expect a loss of revenue of 5 billion. Rain and a warm autumn and more have eased, and otherwise the costs would have been even higher. But more work, greater fuel consumption, higher feed costs, shortages later in the winter and lower nutritional value, leading to lower production and less revenue in the future, mean that costs will increase. When more recent figures come, the Swedish Board of Agriculture also fears that significant losses will occur on the crop side. The same applies to the horticulture industry, especially the requirements of vegetables. I am afraid that the government's proposal will lead to the bankruptcy of many farmers. This is in itself a major problem, but it can also create consequential problems for machinery stations, retailers and other agricultural suppliers, which is a problem for rural areas. One can even see an end in certain areas. Many have worked longer days for a long time. They will not be able to afford to hire changers, and they worry about whether they will go bankrupt. The social situation is therefore very difficult. The situation is therefore neither economically, nor environmentally nor socially sustainable. And so it's not over yet-- it's going to get worse before it gets better. Finally, there are risks with the government's design of the 2018 support. The aid is to be granted almost exclusively within the de minimis category. This form of aid currently has a maximum ceiling of EUR 15 000 in a three-year period. There is a proposal, and it may change, but if it does not change, it means that farmers will not have access for three years to a series of other subsidies that are normally available, and the reason is that they are hitting the ceiling. Malin Larsson from the Social Democrats says that as much as possible has been done according to EU rules. However, I note that existing block exemptions can be used in Article 25 of Regulation 702/2014 on a serious climate event that can be assimilated to a natural disaster. I also note that, if you do not want to, there is also a possibility in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 108. 2, to request assistance outside the regulatory framework of the Council. The government has chosen not to do so. We would partially opt for other solutions, including, as I said, a retroactive refund of the diesel tax. This means about SEK 1 billion extra. However, when it comes to 2019 and beyond, we believe that the diesel tax should be reduced. It is better than a refund of it, because it has an effect right from the end of the year. Farmers do not have to wait until June for repayment. You save the administration, too. Moreover, under EU rules, the refund of the diesel tax cannot be made to farmers who are in financial difficulty. It's a limitation. In conclusion, we now face a difficult situation for Swedish agriculture. We must understand that the profitability of agriculture must increase in the future. It requires resolute, large-scale action, and it must be the right action. First of all, let us remove what is hampering agriculture and pay for benefits rather than simply constructing subsidies. Give agriculture good, long-term rules of play. And make use of EU rules.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-51	Mr President, I would like to I will take a slightly broader approach and ask the question: Is Swedish agriculture really needed in the future? Sometimes one hears in the debate that Swedish agriculture is both unprofitable, out-of-date and even environmentally damaging. The Center Party's view is that agriculture is a basic industry. It provides food, it provides fuel, it provides biodiversity, it provides jobs, it provides open landscapes, it provides a vibrant countryside and it provides security of supply. You could say that agriculture is in the DNA of the Center Party. That is why we have historically pushed agriculture's issues hardest, and we will continue to do so. Against this proposal, we have not left any motion, and that means letting the proposal that the government is now presenting through. The main reason for this is that we want to speed up payments to agriculture. When you talk about payments, I think it must start at that end that, as many have said, it is shameful that the state has actually failed to meet its commitment in terms of payments to agriculture from 2015, 2016 and 2017. That's a huge amount of money. Only on small Gotland that I come from is it about 30 million that have not been paid out. 30 million is very much in the case of small businesses. Of course, it is not reasonable for the state to have its own system of paying out when farmers in turn have to comply with the deadlines. It is clear that it did not facilitate the fact that the Minister for Rural Development went out and promised that this would be ready by the end of the year. It is a promise that will not be kept, and that failure will be the responsibility of the current government. The Swedish Parliament's goal is for us to have increased food production and an increased degree of self-sufficiency in Sweden. The drought is a major threat as it leads to developments in the opposite direction. Those of us who have been in the industry for a long time know that it has been a brutal restructuring of agriculture in Sweden. I can take my home sock as an example. When I started as a farmer in the early 1990s there were twelve dairy farmers there, and today there is one. This is exactly how it looks throughout Sweden, and the drought risks early decommissioning and reinforces this structural transformation. That's not what we need. The Center Party's analysis is that the money is not enough. We see the subsidy proposed by the government, and we see that the LRF's estimate lands at about 10 billion in total loss. We know that only on Gotland is it 800 million SEK. It is clear that 1.2 billion does not propose far enough. That is why the Center Party has put forward proposals in a special opinion of 5.3 billion over three years, and we are therefore prepared to spend money in 2019 and 2020. Our focus is that we double the support per animal unit. We have support for crop cultivation. We'll cut the slaughterhouse fees even further. We raise the refund for diesel, and we raise the transport subsidy. As far as payments in 2019 are concerned, a discussion is currently under way on their design. We are prepared to provide constructive solutions, so that it is as fair and reasonable as possible and so that account is taken of what needs to be taken into account. We are therefore willing to continue this discussion with the government. What is the key in the long term? As several have been involved, it is to increase the profitability of the industry, for at least two reasons. The first reason is that what we have seen in 2018 is a premonition of what climate change will lead to. I am afraid that we will have just such disasters every 10 years and not every 70 years as it has been. Then you have to take altitude for it. That is where the Center Party has put forward proposals. The second reason is that we also need to see agriculture as part of an important security of supply in the country. I am convinced that the last 30 years are a parenthesis in the history of agriculture. We have believed that we can only import food from a world market and in practice be at a level of self-sufficiency of 50%. The combination of increased population, increased concern and climate change means that there will be no guarantee in the future that there will be food to buy on the world market. That is why we need domestic production. How are we going to achieve increased profitability in a liberalised market? That is the big question. The centre party's focus is entirely on increased competitiveness. That is the answer to how we manage increased production. In order for us to cope with competitiveness, there are three main pieces. This is a reduction in the regulatory burden, a more reasonable tax regime and a more active support for the transition to climate-smart agriculture. It must be made clear that agriculture must also change to become more climate-smart. At the moment, despite the tough situation, there is a belief in the future among farmers – thanks to their strong support from consumers and, in fact, increased support from policy. That's very good. Therefore, there is a momentum right now to do something. The Center Party's answer is that Sweden, more than ever, needs a strong domestic agriculture in the future. We will contribute our knowledge and practical suggestions to make it a reality. That is our promise to agriculture for the next parliamentary term.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-65	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Lars Thomsson for his speech. I have a question. Lars Thomsson talks about the refund of diesel tax and a number of subsidies for the future. That's very good. However, the refund of diesel tax is a more short-term solution, and there are limits to the refund, as I mentioned in my speech. I would therefore like to ask whether the Center Party is prepared instead to reduce diesel tax after the end of the year and, if so, by how much. This would give farmers a long-term response and give them a planning horizon. Reducing a tax that hampers farmers would result in them being able to stand on their own feet to a greater extent and not hampered by factors beyond their control. Is the Center Party prepared to reduce diesel tax?
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-69	Mr. Iman! Thank you for the question. It is not entirely straightforward to answer straight up and down yes or no. We clearly need to find models to make the return. Then probably temporarily reduced diesel tax is a good method, because the current government has not worked with other options to increase competitiveness. So we see this as a way forward in 2019. The question is whether it is possible to reduce diesel tax in the long term. Of course it does. Is that desirable? No, maybe it isn't. We need to strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture and change at the same time. It must, of course, be a combination of different measures. And that's what we've put forward. In our counter-proposal for a food strategy, we have 90 concrete proposals. Last summer we put forward another 15 concrete proposals. We say that we should strengthen competitiveness but also cope with a change.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-72	Mr President, I would like to Do I interpret Lars Thomsson right or wrong? Are you prepared to reduce diesel tax in the short term but not in the long term? Maybe I can get an answer to that. For us, it is important to give Swedish farmers similar conditions to those of the rest of the world. Part of that is to give them the same tax rates. If a conversion leads to such difficulties that farmers go bankrupt, it must be included in the overall analysis before proceeding with such a conversion. There are a few different things you have to include in an overall analysis. One is that Swedish agriculture is less climate-laden than other EU countries' farms, and it is much less climate-laden than agriculture in countries outside the EU. This means that you can benefit the climate by having Swedish production and disadvantage the climate by importing. It would be interesting to have an overall analysis of what it would mean for the climate if a number of Swedish farmers went bankrupt and the land was not cultivated. Is the Centre Party prepared to carry out an overall analysis so that it really gets an overall picture of the effects on the climate of the policies aimed at reducing the climate burden?
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-76	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Staffan Eklöf! We are prepared to increase the refund of diesel tax by 190 million in 2018, 290 million in 2019 and 290 million in 2020. That is the short-term perspective. I think that's a clear answer to your question. I agree that we must of course make an overall assessment in order to strengthen competitiveness so that we can retain Swedish agriculture. Then we must also find a balance in which we have a sensible climate load. The almost worst thing we can do is move agriculture out. Then the climate load increases. We have put forward our 90 plus 15 proposals on how to solve it. It's possible to combine. I object a little to those who say that agriculture does not have to change. Yes, agriculture will have to change quite quickly, just like all other sectors. But it can be combined with increased profitability if the state is active and we have an active government. I expect us to have just an active government working on these issues.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-80	Mr President, I would like to Ljusdal, Kårböle, Los, Nötberget, Ramsjö and Fågelberget are names that we all got to take part of during the summer. But it wasn't just names. It was also people who saw their property, their lives, and their health greatly affected. Forest fires ravaged home in Hälsingland. Many are those who have seen their life's work go to waste, who have seen generations after generations of work disappear in smoke. These were terrible events that affected a lot of people very deeply. It was the effects of climate change, just like the drought we have experienced this summer, which has hit agriculture very hard. We heard stories from farmers that they had to slaughter their animals. They didn't get food for their animals. We have heard about grain production which has been the lowest in 60 years. Climate change has disastrous effects. Those who have denied climate change should finally have woken up, but allow me to doubt that. These tracks seem to be deep in some parties, not least with the Swedish Democrats. Last summer when the alarm report on the vulnerability of the Swedish peasants came, the Left Party was the first out of all parties and demanded a support package. We must support Swedish agriculture. After that, party followed party after party and demanded different forms of support packages. This is also evident here today. We broadly agree that Swedish agriculture needs to be supported, and that in itself is gratifying. Let us try to take advantage of it and create more long-term rules for Swedish agriculture. For us in the Left Party, increasing domestic food production is crucial and crucial. Now it seems that in a short time it will decrease due to the drought this summer. In the long term, the transition in agriculture must be increased. The way we live today is not sustainable. Sweden's goal is to increase its self-sufficiency of food in accordance with the food strategy endorsed by the Riksdag. So far it has gone like that, but the strategy is also quite new. County Administrative Board after county administrative board is developing strategies to increase domestic food production. A common year we import large quantities of food, even things that can be grown and manufactured in Sweden such as eggs, dairy products, grain and meat. We import as much as 36% of the meat consumed, and it comes many times from animals treated with large amounts of antibiotics. Some time ago I visited a farmer who had organic pigs and sheep. The farmer told us that when you slaughtered your sheep on the farm there was no room in the slaughterhouses, because then it was imported at most from New Zealand. How sustainable is it? This year the import shares will increase even more due to the drought of the summer, and farmers suffer badly from the misgrowth. It is therefore a good thing that this aid should be introduced. The drought should be a wake-up call for our vulnerability. We no longer have the ability to produce the food we eat here in Sweden. In the long term it is not sustainable. I therefore hope that the domestic food supply will become more topical. We need a domestic national agricultural policy such as Norway, Iceland or Switzerland. After all, EU agricultural aid is not a very effective system, and it is not environmentally friendly. It is particularly beneficial for large landowners. It has also been a bureaucratic system, and this shows, of course, the debate on agricultural aid that is not being paid out. I have been in Parliament for a long time, Mr President. I remember that under the bourgeois government we demanded that the government speed up payments of agricultural subsidies. So it is a story that unfortunately has a long history, so it has to change. It is not easy to deal with these problems. The bureaucratic system of the European Union is widely known precisely for being bureaucratic. We should also call for an exemption from the ceilings for agricultural aid from Brussels, which Poland has implemented. Nor is it reasonable for us to pay a lot of money to Brussels for agriculture, and then we get a little bit back. We should have national agricultural aid and not agricultural aid at European level. But agricultural aid is also about equality, maintaining services in rural areas, as well as a regulated flow of income from minerals, hydroelectric power and wind power to the regions where they are also extracted. The growing inequality in Sweden also affects parts of the countryside with impoverished service and thus less opportunities to remain. Increased self-sufficiency is closely linked to a well-functioning rural policy and the redistribution of resources, that is, contrary to neoliberalism and the belief that the market solves everything. With a strategic effort to increase domestic food security with deep understanding that we need to act against climate change, I hope that this will move forward in a sustainable direction. I call for the proposal of the Committee on Finance to be approved in the report.
i-XMgWxUJvpb284i421eKNqx	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ulla Andersson, for your speech. If it is somewhere that you have to have the right starting point and the right facts, it is in Parliament. I understood that Ulla Andersson claimed that the Swedish Democrats are climate-deniers, and that is a myth. Now we've paid for it. On the other hand, the climate issue is so important that an overall analysis must be carried out. We must ensure that the measures taken are effective. It is therefore an efficiency perspective and a sober analysis that we are calling for. The Center Party and the Swedish Democrats discussed earlier what must be included in such an analysis. Farmers should not drive extra runs for fun, no matter how cheap the diesel is. Mechanical weed control can be increased instead of chemical weed control. Perhaps you should use the remote shift that would not otherwise be used, which is instead planted with spruce. The second thing that needs to be known is that Swedish agriculture is less climate-burdening than other EU farms and much less climate-burdening than agriculture outside the EU. This is the knowledge that the Center Party and the Swedish Democrats have. This means that it will benefit the climate if we grow food here in Sweden and it will disadvantage the climate if we import our food. Then Ulla Andersson said that Sweden no longer has the ability to produce food. I may have misinterpreted it, but then Ulla Andersson can correct it. I would like to say that it is partly created by bad politics. Then Ulla Andersson blames the EU. There is a passivity even there. Instead, we want to use the EU rules, which I gave examples of from the speaker's seat, and change them so that they benefit Sweden. That is how you act to get a Europe that works for Swedish interests.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-99	Mr President, I would like to Staffan Eklöf says that measures must be taken against the climate that has an effect. Yes, I agree. Therefore, it is so difficult to understand that the Swedish Democrats are repeatedly cutting back on the budget area that has an environmental and climate impact. That is the de facto case. The Swedish democrats' climate policy usually consists of: do nothing here at home, or as little as possible, and do something far away. It seems to be forgotten, Mr President, that if everyone were to live as we do, it would go to four globes. How sustainable is it? You have to take your own responsibility for what you do here at home and change it. That should be a matter of course. It is also here that one can most easily have an effect. At the same time, work must also be done at international level to influence other countries and try to help in the best possible way. This applies, for example, to additional climate aid. The Left Party believes that domestic food production should be increased. I think all parties want that today, but we probably want it in a slightly different way. However, I hope that there will be common lines in some of these measures so that we can start working more long-term. I maintain that there are climate deniers in the Swedish Democrats and that it is also very deeply rooted. Just listen to party leaders' debates, for example.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-105	Mr President, I would like to Those were a little sweeping accusations. When something is important, you have to have an effect. If we take action here, there will be little impact, because we have already taken so many measures, while there will be major negative effects in other areas. If we take action in developing countries, it will be a much greater effect. In addition, we spend a great deal of money on the development of renewable technologies, which could ultimately lead to less interesting fossil fuels and alternatives. It will of course be interesting, not only in Sweden but also for the outside world. In this way, this measure will have a global effect rather than just a local effect. It has a lasting effect rather than just a short-term effect. Here we invest more than the government – significantly more. The government seems to believe that by setting an example, one would have followers. I don't think it works that easily. Other countries do not have the conditions that Sweden has with a lot of hydropower and forest, which helps in a conversion. Sweden also has quite a lot of nuclear power. Other countries cannot follow Sweden's example in the same way. Moreover, I do not believe that global politics is working properly in this way. We must instead create technical alternatives which can then be applied and which also give Sweden export revenue and employment, which is, of course, very good. With a policy that focuses on others following, there is a risk that we will save carbon dioxide emissions here that are heated by someone else. The only thing we have achieved then is a sufficient amount of negative effects in Sweden without affecting the global levels of carbon dioxide. This must be included in a calculation.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-110	Mr President, I would like to I could sum up the actions of the Swedish Democrats in the field of climate change as follows: do more over there but cut a lot on the budget for this! Do less here at home and cut even more on the budget here at home! That is to say, as little as possible. This is the essence of the policy of the Swedish Democrats in this area. In any other way, one cannot understand the massive reductions that you are actually doing on both international and domestic climate action. It is untenable to live as we live in Sweden. We consume four globes, and 80% of what we consume here is released in other countries. People are forced to flee for their lives. Climate refugees will be, and are already, the largest group of refugees on our globe. It is simply untenable to continue living as we do in the rich world. We have a responsibility to show solidarity and change our way of life. That is why, among other things, we are going to increase domestic food production and, in the longer term, we are going to try to change agriculture in a more sustainable direction. Now we are talking about emergency aid, and that is what we should have. We in the Left Party support the proposal that is on the table. Sweden needs more long-term support, and then we will stimulate with carrots in order to have a greater conversion of agriculture in order to increase domestic production and consumption of Swedish food.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-114	Mr President, I would like to Farmers are hardy people. You have to be when your daily work's annual income depends entirely on the weather. The last few years have also required a different type of endurance, as the authority that accounts for the significant part of one of the benefits that farmers receive for their work has simply not been rigged to pay these benefits. There is much to be said about this. The Government has added SEK 60 million to the Swedish Board of Agriculture to get its systems in order, and hopefully much is now solved in terms of payments. I am really looking forward to an evaluation of the impact of this on farmers in Sweden. Of course it has had effects. Are there, for example, farmers who, because of this, have seen themselves forced to close down their business? Swedish agriculture has for many years been streamlined and fine-tuned far down in the details. It's about precision farming with new technology, Grep the industry, Lean Agriculture, exact feed states to the animals and so on. The company often has coal on its own conditions. But it applies to the conditions that apply in normal circumstances, with some variations, as you should simply have in a company. For thousands of years we have had a very stable and relatively predictable climate on the planet. It's not like that anymore. Climate change is here. Just admit that we have done far too little to stop them. We're still doing far too little to stop them. And while we do far too little to stop them, we all suffer. Some suffer directly, others more indirectly. Farmers, who depend entirely on weather, are directly affected. We who are going to buy the food they produce are affected in the next line. It is not this scenario that farmers and their organisations have been working on over the last 20 years. Without them, they have worked with the efficiency of the company in a stable, predictable and favourable climate. Last year it rained in harvest times so mildly that many simply could not get out into the fields to harvest. If you could turn off the grain, you could not tow the straw straight away. This year it has been dry for almost the entire growing season. So there has been no reason to go out into the fields to harvest because almost nothing has grown there. It worked out at the end. The rain came, and it turned green again. There were a few more grass crops, but of course with lower protein content. It still became something for the animals to chew on. The crops and their incomes have been largely halved for plant growers. So they had to charge a much higher price for the seed they have. This affects pig farmers, chicken farmers and egg producers, for example, because food for their animals is much more expensive. After all, there is feed in Sweden to buy for the animals. For a while, we didn't think so. During the late summer the panic was close to many. Would they get hay for their horses? If not, what on earth would they do? Would the dairy farmer be fed to their dairy cows so that they could produce so much that the farm runs around? Or would you have to slaughter out? As I said, panic was widespread, suppressed and large. I know, because I shared it. Mr President, I would like to So this year it was not quite as bad as it could have been. But it was bad enough that the support that the government has decided on would be of importance. It is at least our ambition that the aid should help to carry a number of farmers through this difficult year. It is always possible to discuss the scope of support and whether the proposals on how and to whom support should be directed are the best and most fair. After all, the Board of Agriculture is our expert authority. That is the one that has tabled the proposal. I assume that the farmers' own organisations have helped them when they have worked out the proposals on how to allocate the aid. Of course, this needs to be properly evaluated. A number of issues can be considered with regard to restrictions on livestock units and species. It's important that it's right. And now it is also very important that we support agriculture in the transition that must take place in the age of climate change. In agriculture, much new infrastructure is needed, such as irrigation facilities, probably other plant varieties and more funding for research into which varieties work. More wetlands and smoothing surfaces in rainwaters need to be built. With new infrastructure, high costs are often involved. We need to support farmers in their climate adaptation work and on their path to fossil freedom. We do not get there by subsidising fossil diesel. The most important work we now have to do is to help in the transition to fossil-free agriculture and to invest in adapting agriculture to a changing climate. The Green Party wants to develop agriculture in a way that strengthens Sweden's food safety in the long term and provides increased production and processing of food in Sweden. We need to increase protection against the exploitation of valuable agricultural land. We should not build on the fertile soil where the farmer has often spent decades and a lot of money on soil improvement work. It's a waste of resources. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to mention, if you have not already read it, that organic farmers did better in the drought. What this may be due to will also be interesting to find out more about.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-135	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Christian Democrats' motion and for rejection of the bill as a whole. That older people should have the opportunity to live a safe and comprehensive life, we are all gratefully agreed on. We also agree that shelters in various forms are both desirable and important elements of a modern and forward-looking older people's policy. Security housing was introduced under the previous alliance government. When the reform was carried out, very many former retirement homes were converted into shelters, but there was also a lot of new construction. The whole idea of shelter is that they should be the bridge between one's own accommodation and one's special accommodation before one needs one. This applies to older people who, for some reason, experience so much insecurity or loneliness that they want to move away from their regular living but do not have enough problems to be judged for a particular living. One of the big points of this form of living was that it should not be assessed for aid. It should be for the individual elderly to decide for themselves whether they want to or do not want to move there, and you should be able to rent shelters on normal market conditions. This transformation became a fantastic opportunity for many. Investment aid is granted to build new or transform existing houses and apartments into shelters. Today there are shelters in 181 of Sweden's 290 municipalities, and more are added every year. Nearly 10 000 people today live in different kinds of shelters. Security homes have made life easier, safer and less lonely for a lot of older people. Mr President, I would like to At first reading, aid assessment of shelters can be seen as positive. But there are a lot of downsides. The elderly's experience of insecurity can be reviewed by municipal staff. Thus, municipal officials are given a veto over the experiences of the elderly. How can an outsider evaluate the individual's sense of insecurity or loneliness? The bill does not solve insecurity or loneliness, but creates more problems. By legislating on aid-assessed shelters, existing shelters will now be able to be incorporated in a large number of municipal retirement homes. It may be good for the statistics, but it doesn't add a single new dwelling. Yet this feels like one of the supporting arguments in the bill. The question is what problem is supposed to be solved by this proposal. The proposal also provides fewer opportunities for the elderly to choose their own place of residence, as there will often be a need to review the ecclesiastical table consisting of an assessment of aid. The proposed legislation makes the possibility of housing in safety more difficult, when it should actually be the other way round. Rule hassle instead of regulatory simplification — is that really what we want for our elderly? Do we want to give them even more problems? The proposal requires all future assessed shelters to be subject to IVO permits. It is unclear what this adds, in addition to long waiting times and additional bureaucracy. It does not solve problems but creates problems. Security housing is increasingly being built. Demand remains high. The occupancy rate is very high. Seriously, what is the problem you really want to solve with this bill? Why force more people to be judged on aid? Even today, municipalities can, if they deem it appropriate, provide shelter as assistance. Again, what is the problem to be solved? Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats want to go the other way. We want to introduce a right to shelter for 85-plusers who themselves feel lonely or insecure. If you have become 85-plusers, you must surely be considered competent enough to do such a thing, we believe. Instead of forcing aid assessment, we want to go further and see how we can stimulate developers to build shelters, because we see that the need is increasing. When the elderly move from regular housing to sheltered housing, housing is released, and that is exactly what is needed to get the so-called moving chains going. In summary, Sweden needs fewer regulations of people's freedom to choose accommodation, more choice, more options to choose from, less infinity and more confidence that people, even older people, are capable of making rational decisions.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-151	Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal contained in the report by the Committee on Social Affairs. It is good that we agree on many points. On the basis of our thinking in the majority, I would like to argue why it is precisely aid-assessed shelter. We fully agree that there is a large group of elderly people who find it difficult to manage on their own but are too healthy for a normal retirement home. They need to feel the security and context that people need. We think there is a good solution for these people. This solution is called aid-assessed shelter. We must ensure that everyone has the opportunity to choose a home with care and service. The idea of aid-assessed shelters is that it should provide support and help for the elderly to be able to live by themselves and at the same time break the unwanted loneliness. Every ten older people today experience great anxiety, anxiety and fear, and 15 percent are troubled by loneliness, according to the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's survey among older people. Loneliness is today a major health hazard, a public disease. Many older people remain alone in the house or apartment when their husband or wife dies. It may also be a long way from children and grandchildren who have moved into the country or into Europe. Today, despite what the previous speaker said, there are few accommodation options when you are too healthy for ordinary retirement homes but do not want to stay at home. For the younger 55-pluses, to which I belong today, there are accommodations, but there is also an age limit and a requirement for income. There are also other forms of accommodation, which have been suggested, but then you have to get in line, just like any apartment accommodation. Often the rent is too high, and in order to cope with the economy, the older person is left in his apartment or villa; there is no rounding. Therefore, a form of housing is needed where the need for community and security governs. In Sweden in 2018, those who built up our country are worth this, I think. Mr President, I would like to An aid security accommodation is an accommodation that offers shared meals, socializing and cultural activities. One day you can take part in a beginner's Spanish course, the other day you can enjoy your association with new friends. Aid-assessed shelters shall have access to staff, but not 24 hours a day. If you need home help, it must be tested by means of the usual assistance test. If the needs of the elderly increase, they should be able to be motivated to move to another form of housing that better responds to current needs. I think it is a good thing that there is a test through IVO, so that we get a certain quality of our accommodation. In addition, Reger no longer has committed 850 million in investment aid to help build up the shortage of retirement homes in our municipalities. Investment support can also be used to build assisted shelters. The proposal to enable municipalities to introduce aid-assessed shelters will apply from April 2019. What about freedom of choice? I believe that aid-assessed shelters offer more choices in terms of access to shelter. One can still choose to stand in line for the shelters mentioned by Michael Anefur, but there is also a possibility of getting access to a shelter via the municipality's aid assessment. The choice is increased for the individual elderly. Mr President, I would like to To create the conditions for older people to break unwanted loneliness can surely no one be against.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-159	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mats Wiking, for your speech. Of course it's good to have a shelter. In fact, we are in complete agreement there. But there is something that I do not really understand when I read the definition of aid-assessed shelter. The foundation is exactly the one that is for ordinary shelter today. The only thing that matters is that we have a municipal official who will judge whether or not I have a need. That's where I find it hard to understand how you've been thinking. Possibly, if I want to be a little pointy, I can say that it might be good from a socialist point of view. But as far as personal freedom for the elderly is concerned, I do not understand it at all. Then one may well ask: What makes a municipal official be able to judge better than me if, if I am in that situation, I feel lonely or insecure? Why should a municipal official be able to judge it better than I can do myself?
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-161	Mr President, I would like to We are thinking that the individual should still be able to choose to line up for the shelters that exist today, Michael Anefur. If you have money and opportunity, you should be able to do so. Then this is a complement. There are those who may not be able to get in line for a private shelter or a shelter that the municipal housing company has built – it is perhaps high rent. As a complement, you should then be able to get support from the municipality. This is an aid assessment that means that you can be offered a shelter based on your requirements and wishes. It is therefore a complement to what we have today.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-162	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer so far! Even today, there is that possibility. If there is a basic need, the municipality can also assess aid today. This is like doing the same thing but a little more, if you say so. There was a housing reform. We've thought it's been good. It works for a lot of people. Now this is to be made a municipal matter. From the beginning, the idea was that it should not be considered as aid. It would be a complement between ordinary living and special housing. Now we're introducing this. I can imagine that the commons, when building shelters in the future, will build for the care and social services and not for the open market. I'm afraid so.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-164	Mr President, I would like to Michael Anefur doesn't really hear what I'm saying-- maybe it's part of this exchange. We still believe that it will be a complement and that there will still be shelters that you can queue up to and pay for yourself. We think that this gives the municipality an opportunity to make an assessment based on the aid test – economics and such things. It is about what the elderly's economy looks like and about being able to finance part of the housing through the tariffs. This provides the conditions for those who do not have a good economy. That's a point that's important, we think.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-166	Mr President, I would like to We are living longer and it is time to start looking at old age with new eyes. You can replace both hip joints and knee joints and do cataract surgery. And people can maintain hearing through hearing aids. This gives the opportunity for an active and healthy old age. Seniors can be a resource far up in the years and really be a force to be reckoned with. Today's seniors are all too often described as a homogeneous group. Nothing could be more wrong. Today's elderly people have different wishes and different needs. Some older people, but not all of them, enjoy staying in their house or apartment and want to do so as long as possible. It is then important that we offer help via home care and home care. However, there are also elderly people who are too healthy to move to a nursing home but who still do not want to stay in their house or apartment because of, for example, loneliness or insecurity. The new accommodation will offer more security and social interaction. In recent years, new types of accommodation have developed. I'm thinking about seniors and shelters. It offers various services and activities. These can be different forms of service, security alarms, shared meals, social activities and exercise opportunities. Mr President, I would like to It is the view of the Moderates that there is still a great deal of room for further development of alternative housing. Today, we are going to make decisions on aid-assessed shelters. The pending proposals involve six changes in different laws. All in all, this provides clarification on the possibility for municipalities to set up assisted shelters, which are then seen as a particular form of housing. Today there are shelters where you can move without aid assessment, and these will of course remain. I agree with the committee's proposal in the report. I would like to emphasise in particular how important it is for us to improve the quality of life. This proposal can contribute to it and break involuntary loneliness. That is something that I hope we will discuss more in this House. Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-174	Mr President, I would like to We also agree with the committee's proposal in the Social Affairs Committee's report. We support the previous Government's proposal to clarify the possibility for municipalities to set up assisted care homes for the elderly. It is good that more parties than those in the previous government now seem to take the elderly who need care, support in everyday life and social interaction seriously – as the Swedish Democrats have for a long time done. The proposed form of housing should be a form of housing for the elderly who do not need enough support to provide day-to-day care. It is a form of living that aims, among other things, to break unwanted isolation in one's own home. Another aim is to enable older people to move to an assisted shelter in the event of perceived insecurity in their own home. These are very important aspects of many of the needs and well-being of older people. These are issues that we have been pushing for a long time and trying to reach out to, among other things, in the somewhat dirty electoral movement that has just taken place. Mr President, I would like to Loneliness, unwanted isolation and lack of places in special housing for the elderly are not worthy of a welfare country like Sweden. We shall in every way we are able to show respect and reverence for the older generations by offering the best care to those in need of community support. It is these people who have built up our welfare, and it is our job to maintain it and improve it so that we can then proudly hand it over to our children and grandchildren. We all operate here in our little country. It is a country which, unfortunately, has for a long time been giving priority to others than our older ones. It's a country where we pay one of the highest taxes in the world. We Swedes are very much in favour of paying taxes that go to our welfare, but then our common tax cake will be distributed in a way that is worthy of people who live here – including those who have reached old age. The government notes that the number of places in special housing has decreased over a period of years. The Swedish Democrats have recognised and recognised this for a long time, and we welcome the fact that there is now a proposal that can hopefully reverse the negative trend. We know that there are shortcomings in the compliance of municipalities with the implementation of a granted decision on place in special housing within three months. In 2017, IVO invoiced the municipalities about SEK 46 million for missing contributions, divided into 100 municipalities. A total of 125 municipalities estimate in the 2017 housing market survey that they have a deficit of special housing forms for the elderly. This is an increase of 16 municipalities compared to the previous year. This development is, of course, unacceptable. Mr President, I would like to Of course, our welfare society will be able to offer special accommodation places to elderly people who need it, a need that can arise because of unwanted isolation, insecurity and loneliness. That is exactly what this change of law means.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-182	Mr President, I would like to As we have heard in previous speeches, the proportion of older people is increasing throughout the country. These developments present new challenges that we must address in the best possible way. We need to create new ways for our elderly to maintain their health both for their own well-being and also to shift entry to and reduce the need for health care. In order to do this, I think we need to take a new approach. As a former municipal politician responsible for health and social care issues, I was involved in developing the strategy The good ageing in Östra Göinge Municipality. There were some parts that constantly returned in all the interviews that we did with our elderly. There were two words of loneliness and insecurity – feelings and experiences that I think we need to take seriously, because loneliness and insecurity often lead to worse mental and physical health. If we are to manage to shift entry to health care and lay the foundations for healthy ageing, we need to consider these two factors. The second part, which came back frequently and which is linked to the concepts of, and, loneliness and insecurity, is about the housing issue, i.e. accessible apartments and housing. Older people are very concerned about their housing and have a lot of thoughts about this particular issue. We must be able to offer our elderly a functional home where you can feel safe and have a social community, no matter where you live in the country. It is important both for the elderly and for health and social care services that housing is available throughout the country. No matter where you live, you should feel that you can be safe in your accommodation and that you can get an apartment in your locality when you need it. I'd like to tell you about Elsa. Elsa is just over 80 years old. She is alert and has little need for help, just a little home help. She lives in her house after her husband's death. The house is located about three k ilo m ether outside the village. Elsa thus has three kilometres to mail, bank, shop and other services. Being out in the garden and putting on a little or just sitting on the llator in the sun are things that gild the everyday life of Elsa. The security alarm connected to home care is an enormous security for her. But Elsa has begun to reflect on her situation at home. When I visited her as a nurse, she told me that she thinks it is getting a little big and lonely in the house. After she stopped driving, she will no longer come down to the village in the same way as she did before. She simply does not feel safe with her situation. The bones do not always carry, and eating alone every day is rather boring. Elsa tells us that she would like to have a small apartment, preferably on the ground floor and with nice neighbors. An apartment located centrally in the middle of the village close to service and social community. She certainly does not want to move from the district, so an apartment inside the city is absolutely not to be considered. However, such an apartment does not exist today, and moving to a common special accommodation is not an option because Elsa does not have the care needed to move there. Elsa is just one in a row of older people who think just like this, who live in the countryside and would like to move away from their farm or house because of loneliness and insecurity. The problem really becomes evident in rural municipalities, where rents in newly built apartments often get just as high as inside the city. Many older women, especially single women, do not have the economic potential to manage such a high rent. As a result, you would rather stay in your big house, which may be paid off so that you live very cheaply. In fact, however, one prefers to move to a smaller apartment inside the village. Instead, you live there and you feel lonely. You get a little depressed, and you feel insecure. You want to stay in your home country, but the possibility of making it a sensible rent is often very limited. This is where the need for aid-assessed shelters comes in, and that is the opportunity that we now want to develop. The Center Party, together with the other alliance parties, has decided to create more housing options. Today, cities often have different types of senior dwellings and sheltered housing. This will still be there. However, in areas where the housing market is weak, supply is often the same. Here, an aid-assessed shelter can be the key to breaking isolation and loneliness and offering accessible housing for our elderly. The gap that exists between ordinary housing and an aid-assessed special housing can be closed through this bill and enable a new form of housing to emerge. That is why, Mr President, I and the Center Party want to vote in favour of the committee's proposal on the possibility for municipalities to set up shelters for the elderly. No one should have to sit alone.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-192	Mr President, I would like to Some older people wrap golf balls in Portugal high up in their age. Others have bodies that don't belong together. Nor do they have an economy that allows any extravagance. Class and age are reflected in the economy but also in how we live as an elderly person. Most elderly people want to stay at home for as long as possible. But as anxiety increases and visits to the emergency room increase, many want to move to something safer. You want to feel safe and not be afraid. However, the number of places in permanent care homes, formerly known as housing, has decreased by 20 000 from 2002 to 2011. What used to be for half-creep elderly people has in the worst case become a direct palliative housing. Older people shouldn't have to fight for accommodation, as it is now, with the help of their next of kin torpedoes, if they have any. Municipalities are offering fewer and fewer places to older people. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare writes in its report on Elderly Care 2015 that the possibilities for elderly people to live in special housing have been limited during the past five years. These five years were under the previous alliance government. The survey shows that it has become increasingly difficult to grant housing for elderly people, and eighty municipalities also state that they have a huge lack of housing in relation to the needs of the elderly. This is about both red and blue municipalities, which unfortunately can be seen in different tables. It is simply a question of resource allocation. The Social Services Act states that older people should live a dignified life and feel well-being and that municipalities should establish special housing arrangements for service and care for those who need it. We do not see this today. The Left Party believes that it is not reasonable for the elderly not to be offered a place in retirement homes when they explicitly want to move there. Insecureness is no longer considered sufficient grounds for granting care homes, but in many cases a diagnosis of dementia is required in some municipalities to get a place. There are times when waiting times are so long that relatives can go in and take unreasonable responsibility for their parents, for example. The Left Party believes that there should be a review of the assessment criteria for the granting of places in retirement homes in general. In this connection, we welcome the Government's proposal. The proposal places greater demands on a varied range of care provision for the elderly, which can be adapted to the needs of the elderly and tailored to individual needs. Older people are not a large group but are made up of individuals. The range has therefore been increasingly adapted to older people with extensive care needs, which means that many older women and men have become increasingly difficult to find a place in particular if they do not need day-to-day care, but instead need support and help in housing and easy-to-access service. They are allowed to live at home, and they feel insecure. This testifies to many stories of the elderly we meet. There is today a great need to improve the conditions for creating a more varied range of housing for older people that meets the needs of older people as individuals. The bill on which we are going to vote today states that municipalities may establish special housing arrangements for older people who mainly need support and help in housing, need other easily accessible services and who also want to break unwanted isolation. We think this is a major step forward. The proposed form of housing is referred to as health care-assessed housing. It should be granted on the basis of an individual needs assessment that takes into account when living at home no longer works but when an accommodation with full day care is also not necessary. This will clarify the opportunities for municipalities to create less resource-intensive special housing arrangements for older people who primarily need home care but who no longer feel safe to stay at home. In view of this, I would like to endorse the proposal in the committee's report.
i-GhLr7QqZFg34KQLgkMW8TN	Mr President, I would like to The Liberals are in favour of the proposal in the report. I would like to remind you that exactly ten years ago an investigation was submitted to the then government about various forms of housing for year-rich people. It contained an important proposal, what we are discussing today, namely shelter. The proposal was a way of thinking that year-long people would like to stay in their old homes until the last day of life – perhaps not if they were so ill that they needed day-to-day care – to make up for all those who stayed at home with home care and home care. But years - rich people are not a collective. You have different dreams, wishes and opportunities for the part of life that remains. There was a demand for a form of living that could eliminate loneliness, create a social network between people, make it possible to have some fun and long for tomorrow, because then you would have even more fun. Then came the idea of shelter. The idea took root. There are now four types of accommodation: ordinary housing, senior housing, sheltered housing and nursing and care housing. The decision taken ten years ago said that this form of housing did not have to be assessed as aid, but the Social Services Act did not prevent the form of housing from being assessed as aid. Then they wanted to see how the housing form would develop. It can be observed that up to 180 municipalities have supported the creation of shelters, but 100 have not. I have travelled around a lot in the country, and in the 100 municipalities there is a compact resistance to creating shelters. There are different reasons. You do not see the need, or you may not even have examined the need, or you do not see any technical or practical possibilities for building shelters or converting houses into shelters. At the same time, there are people in these municipalities with a clear need for shelter and who wish to move to them. That's when the aid assessment comes in. We Liberals see it as a support for people to have access to shelter if they want it. It will be a clear signal from the Riksdag that such accommodation is something that everyone should have the right to move to if they want to. Ideally, we want to build on voluntaryism, but reality shows that it is not enough. Today there are about 10 000 apartments that can be classified as sheltered housing, but I see from the queues in the municipalities that have said yes to shelters that such accommodation is something you want to choose to move to, not forced to move from something you have loved and liked because you are very sick. Then there are other obstacles to creating shelters, namely monthly costs, which for many are very high if they have a low pension. Here, in politics, we have a responsibility to ensure that money does not prevent anyone from moving to a place where you can get help against loneliness and get sought-after security. It is about the design of the pension system with the housing supplement, and it is about such things as capital gains taxation, which hits some. Furthermore, it is a matter of highlighting carrots for the municipalities. There is a 12-year study on the neck which shows that it is possible to postpone the need for care homes if you live in a socially positive environment, but there is a need for an up-to-date follow-up of the progress of those who have moved to the 10,000 apartments compared to those who have not been given that opportunity. What does the consumption of care and care look like? What is the quality of life in the two groupings? This applies to those who have been able to move to sheltered housing and those in the 100 municipalities who have been refused to move.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-211	Mr President, I would like to Let me first say that I agree with all the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats, but for time to come I only call for the approval of reservations Nos 7 and 9. Winston Churchill said, "We make a living from what we get but create a life from what we give." Or if you want to: It's better to give than to get. We are debating today the report A policy of engagement – long-termism and independence for civil society. For us Christian Democrats, civil society is an area in harmony with our values. There is a tremendous force when individuals engage in others. We meet them in many different contexts: people who are passionate about changing the world or just their neighbourhood. It happens that such involvement grows into a movement — a movement that comes from below! Civil society includes people, groups and organisations working for common interests, separate from the state, the municipality and the business community. It is important to state that without the efforts made every day in the non-profit sector, Sweden would stay. State or municipality, business and non-profit sector is a triumvirate that lays the foundation for a good and sustainable society. Civil society acts as a democracy school, voice-bearer and opinion-maker for people. It is also a force that resists contempt for weakness. There are many examples of how civil society acts as an opinion-maker. In some cases it is such a force in motion that it cannot be stopped. It's super-engaged people who believe in positive change in society. Let me give you an example. For almost a year, the organization Porn-Free childhood has lived around the clock with its vision. Elsa Lantz and Jenny Holmström took an initiative, when they met in the playground with their children, in frustration that children lacked porn filters in the reading plate at preschool and that porn filters for children in preschool and school only existed in half of Sweden's municipalities. They started a petition that gave as many as 35,000 signatures. I have raised the issue of porn filters in debate here in this House with the minister concerned. That minister didn't take his responsibility, I mean. I believe and hope that the government that will be formed in the future, whatever it may be, will act. The organization porn-free childhood is full of commitment and enthusiasm and does not give up its struggle. The struggle is not primarily about a vision; it is above all about telling the truth. I'd be happy to stand with them in that fight! There are so many examples of associations and individuals who make enormous efforts – in the family, which is the core of civil society, and in sports associations, churches, neighbourly cooperation, cooperatives and non-profit organisations. It is also here that the virtues and values needed for a functioning society are formed. It is here that meetings arise, knowledge is transferred, and the alien becomes familiar. This is where interpersonal contacts and ties are made. That role cannot and should not be taken over by the state. We know that there are also voluntary associations which are not good. Where criminal acts are committed or encouraged, the judicial system shall intervene. Mr President, I would like to I hold in my hand an investigation that was conducted as a government mission that ended in 2016. The investigation is called Palett for a strengthened civil society, and the investigator's name is Dan Ericsson. It's a pretty big script of over 500 pages. There are a large number of proposals here to make the best use of the enormous power that exists in civil society. In this context, it is important for the state and the municipality to encourage instead of making non-profit efforts more difficult. But here we have not got that far. It is serious that there is a lack of understanding and understanding and also responsibility in the government and in civil society authorities. There is a need for training for state and municipal officials about what civil society really is and what it means. This may also explain why there was a letter and not a bill of Dan Ericsson's investigation. It has to do with willfulness. The government had already been able to take a position on the various proposals during the last parliamentary term. But it went slowly, and the interest seemed lame. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has a strong and vibrant civil society. The non-profit commitment is great: 53 percent of Swedes perform voluntary work, on average 15 hours a month. In Sweden there are 200,000 associations, and according to statistics we spend a total of 500 million hours on voluntary work. There are those who run the association to solve a service issue in rural areas, those who make great efforts in disaster situations but also those who are simply in the association because it is fun and developing. The Christian Democrats want civil society actors to take a greater place in society. In healthcare and care, for example, there is little in international comparison of idea-based actors. In order to create the conditions for civil society to grow, the Christian Democrats want to ensure that sufficient consideration is given to the specific nature of civil society in investigations and in the creation of rules. But there are obstacles along the way. There are regulatory frameworks that make it difficult and that are designed without understanding the specific conditions of civil society. If an association sells sausages, it can be counted as a food business. If the association organises trips for its members, it can be seen as a package tour operator. The number of regulations that association representatives need to understand and understand is increasing, and as it increases both the administrative burden and the fear of unintentional violations of regulations that are not known. In the long term, it risks stifling voluntary commitment. Mr President, I would like to The lack of knowledge, commitment and insight among officials is a major problem. The Palett study for a strengthened civil society addresses a number of proposals worth taking advantage of and acting on. This applies, in particular, to upgrading the skills of municipal and state officials and decision-makers. The study proposed, inter alia, the introduction of a requirement that if proposals in an investigation have an impact on the conditions for civil society organisations, the impact on civil society should also be reported. The study also proposed introducing a requirement for public authorities to identify the economic and other consequences for civil society organisations. The vast majority of the consultation bodies were in favour of these proposals. Nevertheless, the government chose not to introduce them. There are many more feasible proposals in the investigation, such as increasing civil society's opportunities to participate in procurement and measures to safeguard civil society's role in democracy and facilitating civil society organisations to carry out their activities. It is a palette of opportunities for a strengthened civil society. Civil society, with its diversity and its multitude of people, is a sector of its own – people, organisations and specialities – with its own conditions and driving forces. The involvement of civil society is of benefit to individuals and groups as well as to the national economy. Civil society, in collaboration with the public, can constitute a social kitt and help to solve challenges that the public on its own cannot cope with. There has been a gap – not just now under this or even under the previous government – between politically pronounced will, among other things manifested in the policy of civil society, and the translation of this will into practical reality. This does not happen consciously, but partly because of ignorance about civil society and its specific characteristics, and partly because of difficulties in seeing how to systematically interact with civil society. Mr President, I would like to When I see what the government has done in this area, I am disappointed, because I think it has happened far too little in the four years that have passed. But when I look in the country, I see all the amazing people who go to work and service for others, often without demanding anything back. This is what is so fascinating: you give, but you don't demand anything back. This is the strength of civil society and non-profit associations. You get hopeful when you see everything that's going on out there in the country. There is hope for Sweden when civil society still works as well as it does, but there is a lot to take care of. Many of the suggestions are in the investigation. Let me conclude, Mr President, with a quote from Stig Dagerman: You can't make the earth over, still your cool soul. There's only one thing you can do to make another person well. This is already so much that the stars themselves smile. A hungry person less means a brother more
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-235	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by thanking Roland Utbolt for a very beautiful speech. I agree with much of what was said. This report and this policy area are often about fine words – about how politics creates conditions for civil society and how we believe civil society can contribute to something else. I learned by reading Aristoteles--I haven't met him personally--that sometimes things have to be good because they're good in themselves and not because they contribute to something else. I think it is important that we have that perspective when discussing civil society. Civil society, the free and voluntary co-operation of people, is a good thing in itself, whether it leads to growth, entrepreneurship or anything else. It is certainly very nice that it also leads to good things in society and that the social kit in that way increases, but I think we also have to turn the perspective around. This is not about civil society contributing to something else, but about seeing what is really happening in Sweden today. It is about a mother who gets up very early on a Sunday, even though she has worked all week and would really like to continue to sleep, because she feels the need to help arrange football training in the village. It's about the student who really should sit at home and study to get even better grades but who still chooses to sit in a library and help another guy or girl who has it harder in school with homework. It is about the pensioner who is alert but sees that there are others who would need her support and help, or who even help to ensure that people do not sit alone. It is about the refugee crisis in 2015, when people after people went out to streets and squares, visited accommodations and sat down in stations and helped people who were having a hard time just because they wanted to do this and saw that the need was there when the public did not get there. It is about the fires and droughts this summer, when people together solved problems that existed and committed themselves to providing food for animals so that they would not need to be slaughtered in an emergency. We see how people around this country choose to organise themselves voluntarily. This is good in itself, but it also leads to other good things. Mr President, I would like to No man is an island. We need each other in the big and the small. That's why we work together, live in families, start associations and organize ourselves. This is how civil society is formed and built up. This perspective is central. A good society is built from below; we often forget it. It starts with individuals choosing to cooperate, organise or start associations and organisations. It doesn't start from above. Rather, we should see the public as a complement to civil society, and not civil society as a complement to solving things that the public cannot cope with. That perspective, Mr President, we need more of in the Swedish debate on society. Sometimes the public should even take a step back to let people freely and voluntarily solve the problems they see. Perhaps even politics in this area will largely be about creating fewer rules, less hassle and less bureaucracy, and less about putting everything right so that people can instead solve their own problems. It is when people are not able to solve their problems through voluntary and free cooperation that the public should enter. The public should complement civil society, not the other way round. The Alliance government made a wide range of changes in this area, which strengthened the role of civil society in society. For example, we made it easier to participate in procurements and deliver welfare services. There's still a lot to do. At the same time, however, it is important for this to happen on the terms of civil society – not because we think that the public cannot do things, but to make it easier for civil society to help and do what it wants. Mr President, I would like to This letter expresses some concern that commitment and membership are shrinking, at least in civil society organisations. I think, on the one hand, that you really should share that concern. There is a risk and a tendency that we sometimes get stuck on our screens and watch TV instead of playing bowling with those who are alone. There is indeed a risk that we are seeking confirmation in the small and pleasure of the short-term rather than going out and helping people who need us or get involved in our time. There is certainly a need for commitment to improve the world, not least in these times. It's not that often the middle class gets commended. I think we should remember that we owe many of the reforms that then made Sweden the great country it is, the middle class, which arose during the rise of the bourgeoisie in the 19th century. The risk of the middle class looking down into its screens instead of going out and organizing with other people to solve problems that exist in everyday life is obvious. On the other hand, there is much to suggest the opposite. By the time it comes, people in this country are on their toes and are helping. When you need a class mom or someone to do the soccer training, you often have someone to do it. When disasters occur because of environmental threats or other things, people help each other. You have to see both sides, and when it comes to the mission of politics, it is very important to make it easier for people to organise themselves and not to try to use civil society as a tool for something else. Mr President, I would like to I agree with much of what Roland Utbolt said in his previous speech. However, the Liberals have no reservation of their own in this case.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-253	Madam President, I would like Every day, President-in-Office clubs are falling around our elongated country, and phrases such as It is the enthusiasts of sports associations, foundations, associations and housing associations who meet, discuss and make decisions. It's fire souls who when and ra goes home after school and work hurry to meetings to participate and influence issues that they're passionate about. They invest of themselves and of their time. It is these enthusiasts who are supporting what we are discussing here today, civil society. Madam President, I would like It is when people meet, discuss and make joint decisions that present-day and future democrats are formed. Even when the decisions concern the parking fee to be charged by the Housing Association, the documents up to the decisions are a training in trust, community and democracy. Madam President, I would like I would say that a long-term policy of engagement and an independent civil society is one of the most important political issues of our time. We live in a time when poor, non-democratic ideas have awakened and taken over the political leadership of a number of countries in our vicinity. From countries such as Hungary, Poland, Russia and Turkey, we hear about attacks on civil society and non-profit organisations, and we get reports of major democratic setbacks. By making it more difficult for people to meet, exchange ideas and take joint decisions, the leaders of these countries want to get to the heart of a democratic society, namely trust between people. Without trust, people also lose their conviction that good joint decisions can be made. It will then be easier to dismantle democracy. The fact that we in Sweden have a strong civil society can never be taken for granted, and the worrying development that we see around Europe we have no immunity from. That is why a conscious policy that gives civil society the right conditions to operate and be independent is to the benefit not only of the activities of individual organisations and associations but of our whole democratic society. Madam President, I would like The letter we are debating today presents measures taken to create more stable conditions for civil society to continue to operate as a democracy school, a voice carrier and an opinion-maker. But the letter also concerns civil society's entrepreneurship, also called idea-based entrepreneurship. This is a question which has not been given the political attention it deserves for a long time. However, we saw a number of progress in the last parliamentary term, as described in the letter. Among other things, we now have an investigation that will produce a proposal for a clear definition of concept-borne actors. The idea of entrepreneurship differs considerably from other forms of entrepreneurship and is characterised by the voluntary choice of operators to join forces around an idea and a value base, the fact that the public good or the benefit of membership is their main driving force and that any surplus goes back to the business and thus benefits society. A clearer definition of concept-based actors aims to promote the participation of idea-borne companies in welfare and will make it easier for organisations to apply for grants and enter into collaboration agreements with the public. It is precisely the interaction between public and civil society through, for example, the idea of public participation, abbreviated by the IOP, that has become increasingly common, and today there are about fifty such agreements in the country. The study will therefore also propose guidelines and criteria for the conclusion of the idea of a public partnership in order to promote more interaction between idea-borne actors and the public. Madam President, I would like The fact that I have chosen to use the part of the letter relating to idea-based entrepreneurship is due to the fact that it is issues that are discussed so far too rarely in this House. I think it is primarily a question of many not knowing the important work of the idea carried out by the operators. In fact, we often forget that many of today's welfare services, such as maternity care, travel services, school lunches and a – cash register, have once started as social innovations in civil society. When we discuss welfare today, it is almost exclusively with references to public and private actors. I hope that in the near future, as a result, among other things, of the ongoing investigation, we will also see the idea carried out by operators as self-evident performers in the welfare sector, preferably at the expense of the public and private sectors. Madam President, I would like Swedish civil society is unique. Sweden is constantly at the top of the world in terms of the number of members of organisations and associations. Swedes are used to engaging and protecting the right to participate and influence. I said at the outset that a long-term policy of engagement and an independent civil society is one of the most important political issues of our time. We ocial democrats see civil society and peoples' movements as the core of our democracy and will always stand up for the importance of a strong and independent civil society. This means that we will always protect all the bones on which civil society rests, such as democracy school, voice-bearers and opinion-makers, but also as an idea-carrying actor in welfare. Any attempt to weaken civil society and to attack democracy will be met by so-called ocial democrats with vigour. Madam President, I would like I shall conclude by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-269	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Rojhan Gustafsson, for your speech. In 2012, the alliance government introduced something called gift tax deductions, i.e. the right to deduct donations to non-profit organisations. This was removed by the government in 2016. I would like to ask how you, as the representative of the Social Democrats, view this. I understand you probably contributed to that decision. When this was introduced, Sweden was the only country in the EU that had not introduced the right to deduct such gifts. Now we have again become the only country in Europe that does not. When I look at the history of the Social Democracy, which I know at least a little bit, I see that you have been very much in favour of making contributions– you are welcome to correct me– i.e. that you want to direct non-profit activities by providing grants to appropriate organisations. What happens when you give individuals the power to make their contribution and get tax reductions because it is that giving increases. It simply stimulates giving to non-profit organizations. I would like to ask you how you view this issue and how you defend the decisions of the Social Democrats and the Left on this issue.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-273	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Roland Utbolt, for the question! This issue has been discussed very many times. It is true that we Social Democrats do not believe that deductions for gifts have a major impact on people's willingness to continue supporting civil society. We do not see any significant reduction in giving to civil society organisations. Sweden has a long tradition of contributing to civil society, we are committed and we contribute when needed. This tradition has persisted even though we have abolished the deduction.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-275	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Azadeh, for your answer. I would say that when this was introduced in Norway – these are the facts – giving increased by about 30%. I would be surprised if it did not have any effect in our country as well. Can I take an example and see how you react to that? You were supposed to have a 90 account so that there was some control. My example is the Ankarstiftelsen, which is based in Mölltorp in Skaraborg, where, as it often does, there is a passionate soul. His name is Börje Erdtman and he has done a great deal of work in Colombia and Brazil, which has focused on giving children and young people a future through educational efforts and meaningful leisure time, in order to prevent a life of criminal orientation. A re-imposed gift tax deduction would improve the conditions for increased support to organisations such as the Ankar Foundation. How do you react to this? There are small organisations that are dependent on contributions from individuals and that the state may not find from above. On the other hand, there are perhaps people in Skaraborg who give a little extra and get a tax reduction. If you want to, you can also give this reduction, and there will be additional money for the organization.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-279	Madam President, I would like Roland Utbolt mentioned figures from Norway, but I didn't hear any figures showing how giving in Sweden has increased or decreased or if it looks the same. Unfortunately, I do not have these figures either, but from what I understand there has been little difference. However, I wish I had had the exact figures. I believe that in Sweden we gain more by having general policies for a strong civil society. I believe that the Swedish people will continue to be a strong donor to civil society organisations, and we shall ensure this. A deduction for gift rights is not what civil society stands and falls into, but a policy for civil society as a whole to have the right conditions to be independent and strong.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-282	Madam President, I would like I heard the other day one of many stories about the nonprofit enthusiasts we have in the country. It's about a person who when he was a kid in the 70s played table tennis and had a coach named Jörgen. Jörgen's voice was heard all over the club hall playing ping-pong. It was not only about how they would move their feet and hold their backhand but also that they would pick up the junk after themselves. If they had eaten a banana, the shell was put in the trash. When the child grew up and became a parent himself, his son wanted to start playing ping-pong. He took his son to the clubroom, and who was there if not Jörgen, the coach that the father had also had in his time. Jörgen had become a little more gray and got a little bigger stomach, but he was still there and took care of the children who played ping-pong. It still sounded the same:) Hear, Anders, did you bring anything mellis that you are going to eat? Or I'll have a little something with me in my bag. Pick up that paper that I saw someone throw away! ..................................................... This is just one of many stories, but these enthusiasts are out there in the country. They are the tick that holds society together – the part of society that the public sector cannot and should not stick together. Such stories always warm my heart. This person, who has been a trainer for most of his life to help children and young people, is still there. Rather than thinking of himself, he has thought of others, just as many enthusiasts did. With a firm and loving hand, he has provided security, structure, and encouragement to children in their most malleable years. In Sweden there are many such Jörgen. These everyday heroes in the best and most genuine sense of the word, we must celebrate and think about every day. The Left has historically had an ambivalent attitude towards civil society. In the line between Roland and Azadeh there was a view that it is great, but it should preferably be that it is the politics or the public sector that governs. It will be in a way that I think we need to watch out for. Civil society may exist but only alongside an ever-growing public sector. Otherwise, it should be handled through politics. One example is when Olof Palme gave his first speech in Gothenburg. Among other things, the Moderates had proposed additional funds for the Social Work of the Salvation Army. Olof Palme warned that the Moderates want to give extra support to the Salvation Army just because they want the queues to the soup kitchens to ring from the Poseidon statue all the way down to the five-man tram. There was nothing to think about that it could be about humanity, that you actually want to get involved and so on. We Moderates, like their comrades, see civil society as an important part of the construction of a good common society. For many years, we have been pointing out the importance of public-funded welfare deepening its cooperation with non-profit organisations – not in order for them to take over the tasks of the public sector, but because this cooperation is a prerequisite for helping vulnerable people even after office hours, to be honest, and to be able to break the exclusion, but only in the public sector. It's never gonna work. Civil society must be there and be a tickle. As a social worker, I know that we in social services can do a lot and that we have to be there, but we can't do everything. For you to be able to help a vulnerable person back to work, health and drug freedom, there must be more than one apartment and an internship. What is also needed is a social context, community and joy. This can be achieved by civil society. Actually, it's not that hard. What is needed is a deeper political understanding that the good society we all create together – public, private and non-profit. It is often civil society organisations that first reach new arrivals. If you are a believer or have engaged in artistic or sporting activities in your former home country, it becomes natural to go to a church, mosque, choir or football team. That's where you know you have friends. Then the public must be there for the structure, for what is important for one in the new country. We therefore want to increase the interaction between the private, the public and the non-profit sectors. For example, we want to strengthen civil society's ability to teach, and we want to evaluate and deepen the IOP. Madam President, I would like The important principles that apply to civil society are developed together with the organisations in the context of the preparation of the national social agreement. These guidelines are important. Independence and independence and balance when it comes to getting, for example, predestined state subsidies – how does this rhyme with independence and independence? Dialogue between, for example, the government and civil society is important, as is quality. The production of welfare services should of course be of good quality regardless of the social sector in which it is carried out. It's gonna be so weird. Under the principle that I read about in the report, it says that only a welfare service provided by a non-profit-making activity will ensure that it is of good quality. We must not be so naive. We must, of course, keep an eye on these activities too. It must, of course, be long-term, transparent and transparent. I also believe, as I believe all parties here believe, that there must be diversity, equality, equal treatment and inclusion. There must be even more head-claims when it comes to compensation and contributions from our common cashier. It's still a pillar. I could talk about this for a very long time, because I am passionate about civil society and its enthusiasts. But what is extremely important now, as many have pointed out, is that it is now time to evaluate the cooperation in the IOP, which has been in the current form for a number of years, and to make proposals for further deepening cooperation.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-296	Madam President, I would like A Swedish civil society policy must be based on the idea that civil society is an end in itself and not just a means for the state. On the contrary, it is the state that is actually a means to civil society and to protect it. It is in civil society that identities and values are shaped through interpersonal relationships. It is not done in the same way through people's relations with the state. Based on friendships and fellowships, people voluntarily join forces. This is how people's social lives are created. Traditions and institutions that we affirm and that mean a lot to us in Sweden have once grown organically from below and above on this free foundation. Rarely have these traditions been imposed on us from above through politics, coercion and social engineering. Madam President, I would like Given what I have just said, it follows that it is important for the Swedish parliament to protect civil society from too much government intervention. Furthermore, we must safeguard traditional freedoms such as freedom of expression, association and freedom in Sweden to make our own laws and control our own borders. These freedoms are much more than abstract ideas. They are about concrete historical successes that we have won here in the country through centuries of ambition. Protecting them is very important for free associations and for an independent civil society. We in the Swedish Democrats want this understanding to characterise Swedish civil society policy. Madam President, I would like The civil society policy shown by the Government's Löfven in the letter discussed in the present report contains both positive elements and negative elements according to how we Swedish democrats view it. In fact, some of the forms of government work towards civil society highlighted in the letter can be beneficial. For example, the use of material advice as a working method in the Government Office to improve the government's decision-making base and to strengthen the Ministry's coordination in the dialogue with civil society is an interesting approach. Taking advantage of and promoting the specific knowledge and approaches of civil society on various issues can certainly contribute to an improved basis for decision-making, better anchored decisions and a more vitalised public discussion. Such humility from the policy towards civil society can in the right form become an asset for all. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, I cannot simply point out that the government's work towards civil society has been positive, as shown in the letter. There are also parts in the letter that cause concern and question marks. The 2015 migration crisis was a very serious crisis for Sweden, when housing, jobs, government agencies and other public services were not enough to deal with the situation that the government was very much involved in creating itself through its own policies. The government itself points out in the letter how intense and strenuous this was, such as that 10 000 people a week applied for asylum when it was at its most intense. The government also emphasises how people in Sweden engaged in civil society took a great responsibility to deal with the problems that were created. That's good. It is of course a good thing that many individuals want to do something for Sweden and for other people in a difficult time for the country. But as a government, you also have to step in and take responsibility, and from that you also have to be self-critical. Unfortunately, self-criticism is far too lacking in the letter dealt with in this report. Nevertheless, there is something rather unsound about the fact that politics first creates very big problems itself and then through several hundred million in financial contributions and in other ways tries to turn civil society into a solution to these problems. I'll get back to what I said at the beginning. It is important to safeguard civil society's own space in relation to the state. The values that are created in civil society must not be sidelined too much from the state through their own political agenda. Instead, the state should assume, for example, that sports associations are primarily sports associations and not integration policy instruments, although integration that takes place on a natural basis in civil society is a good thing. The Swedish Democrats have no reservation in the report. However, I would like to note that we have a specific opinion in the report.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-305	Madam President, I would like I am trying to get together and understand the policy of the Swedish Democrats here. But I have a little problem with that. It is not for me to defend the present government. But what Jonas Andersson says is that politics created the problems that occurred in autumn 2015. It's a little more complicated than that. It wasn't just a question of how we handled problems here. It was a more global question. At least these were countries further away, and a large number of people came here who were on the run for various reasons. It was then very big efforts, just as Jonas Andersson describes. What I am trying to get together is your view of precisely the efforts made by individuals, by families and by others – by civil society. You are critical of these efforts. It is stated in your specific opinion: ..................................................... I would like to ask Jonas Andersson how you reconcile this with your criticism of supporting, for example, the religions and the sports movement. At the same time, you believe that money should simply not be given. So you criticise the fact that they receive subsidies.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-309	Madam President, I would like I thank Roland Utbolt for his reply. This issue is about the fact that several hundred million people have been added to civil society at a rather acute stage during the migration crisis, as the letter shows. It is not really a normal state of contribution to civil society, it is something quite extreme. It is about very big money – tax money. I think we should pursue a policy that shows respect for taxpayers' money. The signals that this migration policy sent at the time were not to show respect for taxpayers' money in view of the consequences that followed, for example in economic terms.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-310	Madam President, I would like I'm trying to put this together, but it's not that easy. You think that the contribution is simply too large and that it costs too much money. Then you link it to the efforts of civil society. Jonas Andersson therefore supports civil society while he is opposed to making a contribution to civil society. How do you get this together? I also wonder what kind of vision you have at heart, Jonas Andersson. I've been trying to understand that for a long time. What is in essence the problem of civil society making a major effort and making a contribution to civil society – a contribution that is needed to make the necessary efforts? What is it basically that makes it so problematic for you to make contributions to something that needs to be done and that is done by civil society? Then it is about organisations and also about individuals. Individuals do not ask for much money for their efforts, but non-profit organisations make great efforts. I have no problem that it costs extra precisely if you can help people who are in need and who need help. Of course, it should not be wasted unnecessarily, but I do not think that is what is happening. Instead, I believe that the money needed for civil society to make its contribution is being used. There's a worry, Jonas Andersson. Can you explain it to me so I understand?
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-313	Madam President, I would like Again: Thank you for your question, Roland! The thing is that we had a civil society in place, with all the different associations in it, whether we had the migration crisis or not. The problem I see is that we could have made this several hundred million SEK cheaper if we had had a more responsible migration policy in place from the beginning. That is the point here: it is tax money that has been sent into this, and I think we should respect that. The voluntary involvement of people is good, but this is not only about people's non-profit involvement, but also about tax money and a fundamentally irresponsible migration policy. That is what has led to this situation, and that is why we are critical. I thought that even the Christian Democrats had some criticism of the incredibly irresponsible migration policy that was taking place at the time. I hope you've changed your mind until now, anyway.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-316	Madam President, I would like We in the Center Party have submitted a special opinion in response to the government's letter A policy of engagement – long-termism and independence for civil society. For the Center Party, it is essential that every person should be able to contribute to our common society according to their abilities and be able to participate in society. Civil society is also often quickly in place when there is a need for organised cooperation between people. Its efforts are often faster and more effective than those of the public, as we have several examples from recent years. However, when an idea-based organisation wants to cooperate with the public to make public contributions, difficulties may arise because there are no clear models, such as procurement models, that can be used in the collaboration. There may also be confusion about the legal structure that makes cooperation run the risk of not becoming or not reaching its full potential. That is why we in the Center Party want to develop models for a partnership between ideas-based organisations and the public – partnerships that provide opportunities for more cooperation to be established. In order to provide better conditions for civil society, it should also be explored how the right to deduct donations to non-profit organisations, which the left-wing government abolished, can be reintroduced and broadened. Among other things Roland Utbolt has discussed it in a change of line. In the Center Party, we want to improve the opportunities for civil society to make a contribution to society. One way is to gain better knowledge of the challenges that exist in society. Here, the public can be better at inviting civil society to dialogue and collaboration. Madam President, I would like Contacts with others and education are important in order to be able to orient themselves, shape independent perceptions and actively participate in society. In this respect, all the civil society's elements play a very important role. A clear example is the formation of people, where there is room for reflection and where one can jointly gain deeper knowledge of our world. Formation broadens our views and makes us freer. We can also note that society is enriched when there are good opportunities for people to join forces and learn more about some subject together. Here peoples' education contributes with a structure that supports a wide range of educational activities. This activity plays an important role in society and cannot be replaced by training organised by the public or educational enterprise. Those who volunteer to contribute to society with their commitment must have good and reasonable conditions for doing so. We can see today that there is a problem with project grants at the expense of basic support for non-profit organisations. This makes operations difficult to control because basic support is needed to be able to apply for projects and not least in order to develop their activities. In order to strengthen civil society's ability to be even more fast and flexible and to address society's challenges, we in the Center Party therefore want to see an increased share of basic support in the contributions from the public. There are also areas where there has traditionally been association-driven activities that have now been exposed to competition by new entrants in the form of entrepreneurs. This may, for example, involve the re-use of products or sports arrangements. This has led to the emergence of a market in which there has been no market in the past. This, in turn, has created difficulties for those who work on a voluntary basis when, for example, authorities now require market rent to allow an association to use its land. It risks undermining the right of association. For us, this leads to the conclusion that it is time for a proper association law investigation – an investigation aimed at clarifying and strengthening the specificity of civil society and creating reasonable regulatory frameworks for the activities. It should include, for example, the issue of extending half the price base rule, which currently applies to sports clubs, to other associations of general interest. Now that we are debating the subject of civil society, we cannot leave out sport and its organisations. Sport has much to offer in terms of health, joy and association, most of which has been organised through associations and voluntary activities. Support for association-driven sport therefore becomes incredibly important in contexts where we discuss civil society. For people with disabilities, however, it may be difficult to find suitable sports activities today. The activities of the association at home may not be adapted for everyone to participate. Parasport can then be a route to physical activity and commitment, but many parasports require special equipment that can be costly both for the individual and for the association. Therefore, the prerequisites for creating a national association-run library should be explored, where adapted equipment for parasports can be borrowed so that people have the chance to test if a sports activity fits. This may involve both individual equipment and equipment that an association may need in order to test whether this particular parasport branch is suitable for me as an individual or in the association's activities. Such a library can also help to enable an active outdoor life, which may also require adapted equipment for a person with a disability. Madam President, I would like In order for more children to have the chance to find a sport or other association activity that they think is fun, association life should be given more opportunity to enter school and recreation centres. It opens up the possibility for children who otherwise might not have had the chance to try out new activities to join the association life. The gathering of children around interests also provides opportunities for greater integration. It can also strengthen the association life as it can give the associations many new members. Madam President, I would like On the part of the Center Party, we share the view that civil society is of central importance to democracy and that a civil society policy is needed with a focus on long-termism and independence. However, as I have explained here, we also see several elements where the conditions for civil society need to be strengthened. With that, Madam President, I refer to the special opinion of the Centre Party.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-328	Madam President, I would like To talk in a few minutes about the importance of a strong civil society cannot be made so simple. This is mainly because the concept itself contains such a wide range of forms of organisation, activities, outlooks on life, wills and purposes, but it is also because civil society means so many different things to all the millions of people involved in one way or another. It is about joy, fellowship, shared sorrows, struggle, security, breathing space and inspiration. For the Left Party, it is obvious that we should have good conditions for civil society to operate. It is a central question of democracy that we have a vital community life and that people have the opportunity to organise themselves around common interests. It is through our broad popular movements that previous generations have changed society. Many of these organisations also play an important role today, but many new forms of organisations have also emerged. It is important for us to keep up with policy, for our regulations to be adapted and for dialogue to be good between public and civil society. Therefore, I am pleased to read the government's letter that we have on the table today, A policy of engagement – long-termism and independence for civil society. In it we can read that many steps have been taken during the last term of office to improve conditions for civil society. For example, clearer dialogue procedures have been put in place, and efforts have been made to disseminate knowledge about the specificity of civil society within the authorities, which is very important. It has also looked at regulatory simplifications, and there has been work on regulations on grants, to name a few parts at the beginning. The letter also mentions that the new authority The mission of the Delegation against segregation is to promote the long-term efforts of civil society to reduce and counteract segregation. It will be very interesting to follow the efforts supported by the agency and see what conclusions can be drawn from this work in the future. Through its budgetary cooperation with the government, the Left Party has also contributed to improving the economic conditions for association. For example, sports clubs have been given a substantial boost, which has been very gratifying, and peoples' education as well. Another important part has been the increase in support for association premises of 20 million per year. Having a place to meet is often essential for an association to be able to carry out its activities. Madam President, I would like Yesterday I had the privilege of attending the Student Association's Conference People and Education. There I had the opportunity to listen to a researcher, Eric Klinenberg, who spoke about the importance of meeting places, that it is where social cohesion can arise and how important it is with social infrastructure to be able to work against inequality and polarisation in society. Civil society's ability to create these meetings is thus also an important piece of the puzzle in the creation of a democratic state with high trust between citizens and a sense of belonging. In a democracy that works well, the associations are also voice carriers. They gather the experiences and opinions of their members and are able to enter the political dialogue with collective strength. This is very important. They can act as opinion-formers and push political power. I think it's important that we make sure we keep a rough line between the two spheres. As soon as the contributions become over-governing and civil society is reduced to a performer of municipal, regional or state missions, we risk hampering these critical voices and the role of opinion-former. This is a slip that can happen very slowly – barely noticeable – but here we need to be careful. I am also concerned by the tendencies of many bourgeois representatives. I have not heard it today, but I think it has been possible over the years to hear that we want to shift too much responsibility for welfare to non-profit forces. This may be for ideological reasons or for poor economic reasons. From the Left, we would like to stress the importance of municipalities, regions and states not handing over the responsibilities and tasks of a strong public welfare to voluntary forces. The non-profit organisations contribute their specific skills. It is complementary to the public's but should not take over its tasks. You should not have to depend on the energy, time or knowledge of non-profits when, for example, you need to leave a partner who beats you or when you need help out of addiction. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to reiterate that very well has been done by the government, on its own and in cooperation with the Left Party, to strengthen the position of civil society and the economy during the last parliamentary term. However, a great deal remains to be done, and we regret that no more of the proposals that were included in the Palett report for strengthening civil society have come forward in proposals in the past years. In this part I agree with Roland Utbolt, who began, and I share his commitment to bringing more of these proposals to the Parliament table. That is why, today, we have a special opinion from the Left Party in which we emphasise this. In the future, we will also come back with motions on these issues. I support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-345	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Vasiliki, for your speech. You made it a little difficult for me when you praised me at the end; before that I was a bit excited to get up. But there are things that are more important, and that is, of course, to raise the basic issues that one has. Your specific opinion states that you had hoped that the government would return with sharp legislative proposals concerning more of the proposals in the Palett report for a strengthened civil society. I found it interesting to read this. Of course, it is true that the government has been rather lazy– the Minister, Alice Bah Kuhnke, has not shown any specific results in this area, one might say. My simple question is: in what way have you in the Left Party, which has been associated with the government in order to get your ideas through, pressed the government on the issues you raise in the particular opinion?
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-349	Madam President, I would like I don't think-- and that's not what I said-- that the government has been a louse. I think that much has been done and that it is described quite well in this letter that many things have been done. However, it is more about fine-tuning; investigations have been set up. I think a lot is on the roll. However, the very sharp legislative proposals have not been made, and that is what I have been calling for. There is a great deal in this investigation that could have led to legislative proposals. Some questions have been referred to other investigations, so it may be that things will come up in the future. We think that more could have been done. However, the cooperation that we have had with the government has mainly been budget cooperation. In my speech, I mentioned that great efforts have been made on civil society in this cooperation. We have got a lot of investment in sports, and we also see that a lot of money has gone into public education. These are major and important initiatives that we have negotiated. Having said that, of course, I would like to see even more. I think we will come back to that in the next debate, which is about culture throughout the country. We would like to have even greater investment in civil society, associations and culture in order to get a good business across the country. Civil society is an important part of this work.
i-5GHcwM7J6AdCVWfuXZ6gk9	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Vasiliki Tsouplaki, for your answer! I still think the listeners might be interested in what suggestions you're thinking about. I can give you some examples that I myself mentioned in my speech. You may agree that little has been done about this. It concerns the upgrading of skills among municipal and state officials and decision-makers in relation to the specificity of civil society. Further efforts would be needed there. Another requirement that we have made, as you might agree, is for government authorities to identify the economic and other consequences for civil society organisations. I think the listeners are interested in whether you agree with this or if you want to add a few more things. You say that you would like more of the proposals to be taken up by the government and made something of. It would be interesting to know what you're thinking there.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-357	Madam President, I would like I have carefully read the Christian Democrats' motion and think there are many interesting traces in it. However, when I read the answers that have come to your exercise, I can agree that many things are going on and that there may be reason to wait for some in a future exercise. We are currently discussing our suggestions in a general exercise session. There we will highlight some other parts than those that you have highlighted in your exercise, Roland Utbolt. I believe and hope that the Christian Democrats will be able to support the motion we are writing. In the explanatory statement of the Christian Democrats' motion, you have a slightly different approach to the question of the Left Party. There are some wordings which make it impossible for me to support the proposals today. But as I said, I share the commitment and believe that we share the view that more can be done. I hope you can take a good look at our exercise as it advances the spring edge.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-360	Madam President, I would like Who hasn't ever got up on a Saturday morning to drive to a riding lesson and then stand in a café to sell coffee and buns? Who has not at some time committed themselves to helping people in need here in Sweden or elsewhere in the world? And then who hasn't made new friends? There are many of us who have done this, and there is still a great deal of commitment. More than half of the population are working at a low level, which means about 15 hours a month on average. Much of the voluntary work takes place within civil society, in associations, in networks and in organisations around the country. It is about everything from solving acute problems and coming together to meet a local need to work preventively. Fibre associations in rural areas, women's shelters and the City Mission are just a few examples of civil society actors who make great efforts for individuals and society at large. It is amazing to see how society is built by people's commitment. When we come together on an urgent issue or an interest, new links are established between people, the community is strengthened and trust is growing. Life also makes more sense to many of us. In addition, all these organisations play a very important role in the development of democracy in our country. Madam President, I would like Civil society involvement holds Sweden together. In the letter A policy of engagement – long-term sustainability and independence for civil society, the government reports on the measures taken during the 2014– 2018 term. Policy in this area prioritises the independence and long-termness of civil society in terms of conditions. I would like to highlight some of these efforts. We have improved dialogue and consultation between the state and civil society. Through regular and flexible consultation structures, we can better solve current societal problems. We have increased the knowledge of civil society among public actors, so that civil society is allowed to retain its specificity. In this context, it is worth mentioning that the government has for a long time supported research into civil society and intends to continue supporting such research. We have improved the management of state subsidies, so that both organisations and citizens can feel safe with the control of the grants that take place. The Government has set up three studies on the issue of the criteria to be set for access to support. There are demands today, but they obviously need to be made clearer. The starting point is that public funds should go to those who strengthen our democracy. We have invested in local resource centres for increased democratic awareness in areas with socio-economic challenges. The government has also initiated the initiative Äga rum, an investment in art and culture in some residential areas with low turnout or socio-economic challenges, where civil society and other actors interact. Last but not least, we have improved the conditions for civil society's own activities, so that you can spend less time on administration and complicated regulations and more time on what you actually want to get done. Madam President, I would like In order for civil society to be able to act independently and in the long term on the basis of its own idea, the state must provide good conditions but let the organisations do the rest, and that is exactly what we have done. During the previous term of office, the government has greatly strengthened support for civil society on a broad front. This is about 1.5 billion in increased aid per year. These increases take place without the need for docility. In this way, we protect one of the most important functions of civil society as a voice carrier – a voice that sometimes goes against us in power, but always for those you represent and for those who are most vulnerable. With this policy, we have laid the foundations for civil society to be better placed to benefit its members, the country and democracy. All in all, these organisations and non-profit hours lay the foundation for a better Sweden where we believe each other for good, where we help each other to solve common challenges and where everyone can fit. The Green Party is in favour of the Culture Committee's proposal for a decision and rejection of all reservations.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-373	Madam President, I would like This is a letter from the government dealing with culture throughout the country. The committee proposes that it be added to the file. It does not contain any sharp proposals, but rather an account of the efforts and initiatives that the government has made over a few years. The government has done quite a few things to get culture throughout the country. A great deal of effort has been made to get culture throughout the country, and a great deal of state funding has been made. We can read in the letter about the distribution of state grants in different counties, and we can read about the different conditions for taking part in culture around the country. Sometimes there are huge differences in the conditions for taking part in culture throughout the country. We can see how digitalisation changes consumption, production and the creation of culture, but also how digitalisation can thus equalize differences. We see how investments in schools, libraries and reading make it possible for more people to enjoy literature throughout the country. Many of the efforts made by the government can be welcomed by a broad majority in the Riksdag. However, it is not just about money all the time, Madam President. There are cultural policy objectives that say that culture should be a dynamic, challenging and untying force based on freedom of expression. When you invest heavily in culture throughout the country, the efforts must reasonably be matched with the goals that you think cultural policy should have throughout the country. Has cultural policy in this area contributed to more dynamic cultural life in the different regions? Has it created an additional force to be challenging or unbounded? Has it created more creativity, diversity and artistic quality throughout the country? The idea is that cultural policy objectives should shape society as a whole. This does not answer much when you read the letter, Madam President. It will be a lot: we have invested this many millions in this, we have made these investments in this area and the money has been distributed in this way because municipalities and county councils have also given more money to different things. However, if we are to have a policy and evaluate it, it must reasonably be set against the objectives of cultural policy. It's a lot about expanding infrastructure and giving money to top-down perspectives in cultural policy, i.e. that the state says something should be done and adds to these millions and distributes them according to distribution keys. But what is the effect? We really need to think about whether the money we invest in this area will have the effect we want. Then it is reasonable to measure it on the basis of the cultural policy objectives we agree on. Has the culture become more dynamic, more independent and more challenging in the different parts of the country? Madam President, I would like More money for the cultural sector is good, but it must be used properly. Let us remember that while the government is giving more money to culture throughout the country, it is also withdrawing money from culture throughout the country, for example through tax increases. You give with one hand and bring the other. VAT is being increased for cinemas, and employers' contributions for young people are being increased, which means, of course, that there is less money for culture throughout the country. The government's efforts also mean increased governance. There are sometimes quite small investments in culture throughout the country, and when you divide it into different counties there are very small investments. The smaller and sharper the efforts made, the more cultural policy is governed – not only nationally but also in the different parts of the country. Madam President, I would like The letter describes what has been done in recent years in this area. It is reasonable to use these experiences to consider what policies are needed to ensure that there is culture, freedom and education throughout the country. I think that a great deal of the conditions described in the letter can be used to formulate a policy also forward. But then, Madam President, you must have objectives for culture and goals for the investments you make, not just in terms of impact and number of crowns. After all, the most important thing must be that people around the country can take part in high-quality culture and that they can form themselves and have the opportunity to create culture that both challenges and binds people together.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-385	Madam President, I would like There is probably no time that has characterized me as much as spring 2013. For a week, my entire neighborhood of fire smoke reeked from over a hundred cars lit by young men, and the same young men attacked the blue - light personnel who came to the rescue. Angry and sad citizens saw their property destroyed. Windows were crushed, facades had large burn marks and garages and some apartment buildings had to be evacuated. Many parents asked themselves if you could stay at all. The events lasted for several days. In the end, however, accommodation, night hikers, civil society, local actors and the police got some order on it, and a calm was achieved in the local community. Over the years, we have all asked ourselves the question: How could this happen? Madam President, I would like Since the 2014 elections, I have been working on this type of issue in the Committee on Justice. We increased the police funds sharply, increased training places and started two new police colleges. We gave priority to the presence of the police in particularly vulnerable residential areas. We spent the sentences of nearly 30 acts linked to gang crime, and we legislated to remove goaltender cars. We have also investigated the abolition of the youth rebate. These measures have mainly concerned the necessary repression, and no one who causes this kind of vandalism and criminal acts should escape criminal liability. But the more time I spend reading judgments, talking to the local community and meeting relatives of the perpetrators of organized gang crime, the more clearly the picture of the perpetrators' social context, growing-up conditions, material conditions and striking lack of basic education and education emerges. Although no one is absolved of responsibility because of poor living conditions, it is a fact that we will have to do something about the very background and the cause of this crime at all. Let me get back to spring 2013. Then something else happened that was of great importance. For the first time in a very long time, we had a survey of the economic conditions in our country, and the OECD showed that none of the 33 countries included in the survey had such a rapid development of inequality as Sweden. The other Nordic countries, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Belgium and Austria had less income inequality than Sweden. The proportion of the relatively poor doubled from 7.3 per cent of the population in 1991 to 13.8 per cent in 2013. Our social insurance systems, previously known for being high, were no longer at the top of Europe, and one tenth of those with the lowest disposable income even had declining income in absolute terms between 2007 and 2012. Madam President, I would like Sometimes it is important to turn the figures into reality in order to understand what it is all about. In my neighborhood, the figures describe the time around 2013. Families were in danger of being evicted, overcrowding had increased sharply, unemployment had concentrated and too many young men had left school. Now it has been a few years, and you may wonder how things are today. Politics and economic prosperity have generated a rapid decline in unemployment. Among young people, unemployment has fallen by almost 40%, which is a positive development. Thanks to government subsidies, rental apartments have been built, and investments in the outdoor environment have left their mark. Unfortunately, criminality is a major concern, but the police are more present and more crimes are solved. By far the greatest concern, however, is the tremendous school segregation. The combination of a free establishment system, school money, unregulated profit and free choice of school means that too many students still don't meet the knowledge requirements in school – and then I haven't even figured out what it looks like with the cultural segregation in the form of lack of cultural experiences and impressions from other environments than where you live. If we assume that democracy requires all citizens to be given the opportunity for full education and cultural education, we must act when reports show that it is primarily children of highly educated people who participate in the cultural school or that culture is dependent on the interest of an individual teacher because aesthetic subjects are no longer mandatory in upper secondary school. Nor can we accept the privatisation of libraries that generate other compensation systems and undermine the core mission of libraries to get more people interested in reading and to get more people to meet. Nor can we accept the emergence of the downgrading of humanities at colleges and universities, which is primarily a political agenda set by right-wing radical politicians. Madam President, I would like For politics, free elections, public dialogue and democratic development to continue, citizens need to feel secure in their everyday lives and lives. But the goal of everyday life and our lives must be more than to ensure material security. Madam President, I would like In fact, this debate is the subject of the government's letter on culture throughout the country. The Government describes in the letter everything that has been initiated and implemented during the 2014– 2018 term in order to strengthen the culture, education and democracy of our country. The letter is based on national cultural policy objectives and public responsibility for the cultural field. The starting point is that access to culture should be good throughout the country and that differences in access to culture should be reduced. Some of the important actions carried out during the term of office to this end are an historic increase in the cultural policy budget by over SEK 1.5 billion. We have introduced a grant grant of SEK 100 million to the municipal cultural schools, which generated a fee reduction in many municipalities. We have also made an investment of SEK 200 million per year to strengthen libraries throughout the country. In addition, we have made a special effort on the Äga room project in residential areas with a socio-economic character. We have strengthened state support for local and regional culture through increased funding for the cultural co-operation model, increased funding for public education and study promotion, and increased the number of places of education in artistic education. Our priorities have been to strengthen accessibility and increase participation. Our democratic promise is basically about allowing people to flourish and develop on the basis of their conditions and dreams. Regardless of how the forthcoming government constellation will be, the root of social democratic cultural policy will always stem from this very fact that more people will be able to participate and make their mark on our country's cultural policy. I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-c1aaa2c911722d47-407	Madam President, I would like The past term of office has in many ways been a very good period for state cultural policy. Many major investigations were carried out to lay the foundations for an updated and developing policy in several areas, and several of them were able to become proposals that we handled here in Parliament. It was about changes in film policy, in the field of cultural heritage and in the cultural school, to name but a few important decisions. Together with us in the Left Party, the government carried out historically great budgetary efforts in the cultural field when 1.5 billion were added. A great deal of that money landed in investments that bear on what we are talking about here today, namely culture throughout the country. For us in the Left Party it is very important that we can say that all residents have the opportunity to participate in cultural activities in their neighbourhood, both as practitioners and as audiences. Of course, you can never have the same access in a smaller rural municipality as in a densely populated metropolitan area. But through an active cultural policy, we can create structures and even out the differences. If we are serious about the cultural policy objectives of culture for all as part of well-being, we cannot leave it entirely to market forces or to individual citizens to resolve the issue. When I read the letter on which we have a position today, I see that a great deal has been done to strengthen the general level, but also some efforts that are particularly beneficial for the spread of culture throughout the country. For a long time, the number of library branches has decreased in Sweden. As much as 25 percent of the library branches have disappeared since the 1990s. This is a very serious development, and in the last parliamentary term we agreed in the Left Party and the Government that the issue was a high priority. There is now extensive work on a new national library strategy, but already 250 million has been invested to increase the accessibility of libraries. The money to do the important work has been spent on municipalities and regions. The impact of 290 municipalities is not enough by any means. However, it is a clear signal that this issue must be given priority throughout the country. In spite of the massive closure, libraries are still the most widely distributed cultural institution throughout the country. It forms the backbone of a cultural infrastructure and usually performs a very broad function. There you can take part in art exhibitions, children's theatre, lectures and music. There you meet spontaneously or in organized conversations. For those who do not have reading habits from home and have shorter education, the step is far to visit a library. That's what the statistics show. The chance of taking the step of visiting the library will of course be much smaller if the distance is long. That is why it is so important that we continue to strengthen the distribution of libraries through both strategies and action plans that are underway but also through financial efforts. Madam President, I would like We cannot have a debate on culture throughout the country without a little lingering on the model of cultural cooperation. For those who do not deal with culture daily, it may be an unknown concept. But it is through this model that the large resources are channelled from the state and out into the counties. It is the county councils and regions that hold dialogues with municipalities, associations and individual artists to develop a plan for the cultural initiatives of the coming years. We from the Left Party think it's a good model. It is a system whereby decisions are taken closer to the inhabitants and all actors active in an area can be invited. When I travel around the country, I hear a great worry. In particular, the county theatres signal that they are in financial difficulty. Many believe that the state has not been involved in the model. The development of costs has slowed down, and the regions have been allowed to pamper in more and more. Today, they account for most of the money. During the last parliamentary term, reinforcements were made. The Left Party and the Government contributed more funds. But we see that when regions need to prioritise between health care and culture, culture is often at risk. Now we see that many in the theatre sector are signaling cuts. A few weeks ago we had a northern invasion here in Stockholm. I don't know if any of you noticed. It was five of our northernmost theatres that took the capital's scenes to show their activities but also to stir up debate about who can be seen in national media. What culture are we able to take part in when we read reviews in national media? Whose conditions are we allowed to be seen when we talk about culture? I was told how to try, for example, to create tour activities in counties where you can have five hours of travel to reach your playsite and then an hour's construction of the stage. Then you're supposed to take it all down and go five hours back. You understand the challenges involved. It is important that the announced reinforcement of 40 million extra to rural culture that we can read about in the letter can be implemented. It is intended to take place in 2019 and 2020 under the draft budget. Now that we have such a uncertain budgetary situation, it is very uncertain whether it will happen. But I hope that, regardless of the government, rural areas can get this reinforcement so that we can implement initiatives that are really needed on culture throughout the country. Madam President, I would like I agree with previous speakers that it is important that we try to evaluate the impact of our efforts and that it is not always about money. But it is not possible to get away from the fact that it is associated with great costs to get to a professional culture throughout the country. We need both professional actors and study associations who are very important players who are close to the citizens. We also need a great deal of support for amateur culture. It is often just a matter of financial support to be able to be in rural areas and in our sparsely populated municipalities. I believe that the Left Party is a guarantor that cultural policy will take this direction also in the next parliamentary term.
