i-ead9d8c281795c87-2	Mr President, I would like to Let me start by saying that I will perhaps spend a minute more than the speaking time indicated. Mr President, I would like to Welfare is something that frees people. It frees us from economic subordination. It means that we are not dependent on our own financial resources to receive welfare services such as school, health care and long-term care. In addition, we often do not have to give up much of our own life to care for loved ones who need services that cannot be bought on the market. When we talk about welfare, we must inevitably also mention a few words about Sweden's municipalities and county councils, which represent a large part of our country's welfare. They also often represent the close welfare services. It is therefore important to give municipalities the opportunity to fulfil their tasks. Today, we choose to organise welfare on the basis of a principle of public interest. It means, quite simply, that each one contributes according to his ability and that each one receives as needed. This means that the resources we jointly contribute to common affairs should also be used to do so. It is a simple principle, and it is a timeless principle. It could be put differently: Care, education and care are important for people's opportunities in life. The life spans are much smaller when this does not exist. Equality in welfare services gives freedom to the majority. Today, our country looks different. Sweden has the most liberal rules in the world regarding, for example, opportunities to conduct educational activities for profit. When you hear about the sums that some of the welfare companies have made in profit, it is not without baxing. It would have been possible to achieve quite a lot of well-being for that money. What we have seen in recent years is an increased difficulty for municipalities and county councils to plan welfare activities. What is commonly called freedom of choice has more often been about freedom of choice for companies and not for us who need welfare. In our country, there is almost a free right of establishment for certain types of welfare companies, while we have seen that some welfare companies are being shut down all of a sudden. Students are more or less left in the lurch, and the municipality has the ultimate responsibility to ensure that they still receive their education. The latter is good, and it's important. Of course, such responsibility also requires the right tools. Mr President, I would like to It is not reasonable that welfare companies can choose where they want to establish themselves without taking into account what they think or what the conditions are otherwise. This has led to over-establishment in many places and short-term planning. It goes out on those who use the welfare, and when the profits are no longer high enough, there is the risk that the company will just leave the place. Mr President, I would like to In a way, this is not surprising, because if you choose to apply the logic of the market you also get the results of the market. Higher ratings become sales arguments and grade inflation a fact. When profitability is allowed to control, care is preferred to customers who are healthier. We are getting a result that is not desirable. When the decision to allow private participation in welfare was taken in the 1990s, the idea was to increase freedom of choice. By opening up to companies, associations, cooperatives and other forms of actors, the idea was to offer different educational methods and orientations within welfare. With more options, citizens would have freedom of choice through access to a variety of activities. Today, the number of non-profit actors in Swedish welfare is largely the same as when the reform was implemented in the early 1990s. It is above all the number of profit-making limited liability companies that have increased sharply at the expense of others. Small companies, parent and employee cooperatives and other smaller players are increasingly bought up and taken over by group companies that may be larger than many large municipalities. In addition, they are excluded from procurement as they cannot compete on a level playing field. This leads to a homogeneity in which companies with a certain healthcare or school concept are taking over increasing shares of welfare. What the new players offer is often the same services as the municipality. Freedom of choice has therefore come to consist of a choice between different brands rather than a choice of the content of the service. Low entry requirements to establish themselves and limited capital requirements in conjunction with the relatively secure revenues of a tax-financed business with stable and predictable demand have meant strong economic drivers for the establishment and purchase of activities in the welfare sector. With low risk and good cash flows in a new expansionary industry with high rate of change and frequent change of ownership, the development is driven towards groups controlled by venture capital companies. Diversity disappears and freedom of choice is restricted. Mr President, I would like to Even the previous bourgeois government pointed out in its directives to the so-called Owner Review investigation that a development towards a few major companies that dominate the market is problematic if it means that diversity and thus freedom of choice is limited. Fredrik Reinfeldt's government realised that further development towards increasingly profit-oriented players could lead to an increasing convergence with reduced diversity and reduced freedom of choice for users. Today we see very little left of Reinfeldt's legacy in the new Moderates. Mr President, I would like to Let me mention a few words about the absence of the Swedish Democrats in today's debate. I do not know what time it is, but it is quite obvious that they do not dare to look their voters in the eye after the invitation to the business party. The Swedish democrats changed their view of welfare gains after a number of high-profile lobby dinners with the business community. In the 2014 elections, the Swedish Democrats felt that tax money should go to school and health care, and not be taken out in profit. Today they think exactly the opposite. It is unacceptable that tax money intended for school education should be passed on to dividends. This is what the Swedish Democrats' school policy programme said in 2013. Yes, we want to limit profits in welfare, said party leader Jimmie Åkesson to Swedish Radio on 28 August 2014 in a hearing for the election. Three years later the same Jimmie Åkesson announces that the Swedish Democrats are against profit limits. After intense courtship, the Swedish democrats have chosen the profits of the venture capitalists before the welfare. The Alliance has been given a support wheel, and a clear right-wing party has established itself in Swedish politics. Mr President, I would like to It is my conviction that for those who believe in real diversity and real freedom of choice, the conclusion is simple: the development of large growing groups which subjugate smaller, often non-profit players, must be broken. A system in which ideas-based and smaller actors who do not primarily run their business in order to make a profit must be highlighted and given a greater role. The purpose of profit as a driving force simply controls the business wrong. It is not reasonable for us to have clearer rules for running a hot dog kiosk than for private operators in social care for children and young people. It is therefore important to regulate how public funds can be used, both in order to provide better conditions for the development of freedom of choice for citizens where they can influence the content of their activities and in order to provide the conditions for different alternative activities to participate in. Mr President, I would like to This will give us real diversity while guaranteeing quality and developing our activities by using our common resources for common affairs.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-21	Mr President, I would like to The aim of the equalisation system is to create economic conditions for all municipalities and county councils to be able to provide equivalent public services regardless of their income and other structural conditions. The largest and most central elements of the equalisation system are income equalisation, cost equalisation and a structural contribution. Income equalisation is done through equalization based on tax force between municipalities and between county councils. The compensation is calculated on the basis of the difference between the tax force of the own population and the so-called guarantee level, which is 115 per cent of the country's average tax force. Municipalities and county councils with a tax force below the guarantee level receive a subsidy, while the 15 municipalities whose tax power currently exceeds this level pay a fee. The purpose of the cost compensation is to compensate for structural needs and cost differences between individual municipalities and county councils. The levelling-up must compensate for differences in the need for municipal services and for the conditions for producing such services. This therefore applies to differences that municipalities and county councils cannot influence themselves. In 2005, major changes were made to the cost compensation. These changes had significant redistributive effects. In particular, rural municipalities in the forest areas were adversely affected. In order to compensate for this, a separate system called the structural contribution was introduced. The main part of the redistribution is through income compensation by the state providing funds to the local government sector. A small part of the redistribution within income equalisation is financed by the municipalities and county councils by the fact that they have to pay a little bit with the highest tax burden. On the other hand, the cost compensation is financially neutral, which means that all redistribution takes place between municipalities and between county councils and regions. The levelling-up system is particularly important for rural municipalities with long distances and a dispersed population. On average, municipalities receive 13% of their income from the equalisation systems. However, the spread is large. Some municipalities with very high tax rates receive a negative contribution. Among rural municipalities, the average levelling of income is 20%. However, there is also a significant spread between rural municipalities. In Kiruna, you get only 4 per cent of your income from the equalisation system while in Berg municipality you get as much as 34 per cent. Sweden, like most Western countries, is facing major demographic changes in the coming decades. The proportion of persons of working age will fall in relation to the population as a whole. This trend is driven by the expected increase in life expectancy. In parallel, urbanisation is expected to continue. Large cities are thus growing more in relation to the countryside. These developments will result in the local government sector facing major challenges in terms of skills and staffing. For many rural municipalities, this challenge will be particularly great. In its final report, the Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development, in which all the parliamentary parties were present, wrote that the proportion that will have to work in the care of the elderly and people with functional variations will be higher in the interior of Norrland than in metropolitan municipalities. In the interior of Norrland, 9.5 per cent of the population were employed in the care sector, but this proportion is expected to increase to almost 17 per cent as the proportion of older people increases. The long-term survey also estimated that the economic development of rural municipalities would be significantly worse than that of metropolitan municipalities. The compensation system is included in those calculations. The Rural Committee therefore believes that the current system of equalisation is partly based on outdated data. Furthermore, SKL has said that the elements of cost compensation that compensate for the additional costs incurred by rural areas in recent years have not been updated in such a way that these factors have become relevant. At the moment, a special investigator is looking at the cost compensation system. That's good, but it's not enough. The government therefore needs to set up a parliamentary preparation involving all parties in order to continuously monitor and adapt the municipal equalisation system to today's changing demographic conditions. Mr President, I would like to Today, the bourgeois parties once again want to make an announcement about profits in welfare. This time I believe that some kind of record is being broken at the top of the political spectrum. It announces that the government will come back with proposals on how to work to increase diversity in welfare. I'll tell you when it's gonna happen. This will take place no later than 20 March, in less than three weeks' time. Then the government will put a bill on Parliament's table to stop the pursuit of profit in welfare. We in the Left Party have seen to that. Then, unlike what the bourgeois believe, they will increase the diversity of welfare. The market that the bourgeois parties, together with the Swedish Democrats, hug to death is in fact an oligopolistic market with a few large free school groups, venture capitalists and fortune seekers without moral compasses. What, then, are the proposals we will make to increase the diversity of welfare? Firstly, we stop the pursuit of profit as an incentive in welfare, and then the companies that have only an interest in making profits will leave the market. Of course, it makes it easier for those who are serious and interested to provide care for the elderly or to teach them interestingly. Many of these actors will be non-profit players who are currently being pushed away by the giant groups, and therefore we have excluded non-profit actors from the rules on profit limitation. We are doing this because, in essence, the non-profit players do not have a profit as their incentive. For the big players it will be impossible to make over-profits and their ability to buy up smaller players will therefore be greatly reduced. This is also one of the main reasons why today we have an oligopolistic market. It will also be impossible to use Swedish tax money that would have gone to education to buy up companies abroad, for example in Saudi Arabia. Another important change is the exception for all actors regardless of their organisational form to make a small profit of up to a price base amount, equivalent to SEK 45 500. It is an important exception for the small company but it is absolutely insignificant for the venture capitalist in the giant group. Therefore, more smaller players will now be able to develop their activities under fair conditions. In a few years' time, I believe that we will no longer see a welfare that is like a market, but rather an area in which different actors are contributing to the development of their businesses. For these reasons, the bourgeois announcement supported by the Swedish Democrats today is totally unreasonable. But it is of course an order job from the profit lobby that you like to have a good dinner with afterwards. Mr President, I would like to It shall be possible for all those who work to make a living from their work. For those who are referred to working part-time, it is often impossible to manage one's own and any children's livelihood. Working part-time often means that you are dependent on someone else to get by. Part-time work does not simply mean a lower income. Part-time workers also have fewer opportunities for development at work, lower wage developments, lower remuneration from social security systems and lower pensions. The question of how to strengthen the right to full-time employment has been the subject of a state inquiry, the so-called Full-time Investigation. As early as 2005, a report was submitted with proposals for a full-time employment law. However, the investigation never led to legislation, and the problems remain to this day. The Left Party has repeatedly exercised that the right to full-time protection should be strengthened by amending the Employment Protection Act to make full-time the norm. In spring 2016, SKL signed a three-year agreement with Kommunal. The agreement contains several elements aimed at increasing full-time employment, including the pursuit of permanent full-time employment in the case of new employment. The Left Party believes that this is a legitimate and good step along the way, but legislation is needed to ensure that everyone in the labour market is covered by the right to full-time employment. Part-time should be an opportunity, not a compulsion. The right to full-time employment should therefore be strengthened by changes that make full-time the norm of the Employment Protection Act. In the case of part-time employment, the parties shall be able to agree on and conclude such contracts if agreed upon. It would also greatly benefit employees in the public sector. The Left Party proposes this in our motion A safe and sustainable working life, which is, however, dealt with in the Committee on Employment. Having said that, I would like to endorse the Left Party's reservation No 1 and our common red-green reservation No 2.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-49	Mr President, I would like to I note that Niklas Karlsson is the only one who represents the government parties because no representative from the Environment Party is involved in the debate, which is regrettable. Municipalities and county councils are responsible for ensuring that Swedish residents have access to school, care for the elderly and health care. At best, it is activities that are of good quality. This is mainly decided in the respective municipalities or county councils. But it is also linked to the conditions that are based on the success of the economy or on other factors that the municipalities themselves cannot directly influence. In addition, municipalities depend on us here in Parliament to make wise decisions. Sweden is currently doing really well, thanks to the international boom, the Alliance's previous reforms and low interest rates. The local government sector is also doing well. For the county councils, however, it is more difficult. However, large investments in new schools and retirement homes are financed, as are renovations of old baths and sports facilities. And it risks burdening future municipal budgets and future generations. The future generations will also have to pull a heavier load, compared to previous generations, as population development looks. In addition, costs are increasing faster than demographic change. It's not a new phenomenon. It's been that way for a long time. Then what does the government do? In short, the government is gassing in a boom rather than using the opportunity to carry out the necessary reforms. That is regrettable. When the government left its budget proposal last autumn, the Minister of Finance had removed the chapter on the finances of the local government sector. It is still unclear why. When the Swedish National Audit Office was to review the government's fiscal balances, they had to request the calculation data from the Ministry of Finance. This shows a lack of transparency in how the government deals with this incredibly important issue. I have requested the documents myself, and they confirm the image that the local government sector will have significant financial problems unless we politicians act on time. This is an issue that a finance minister must not take lightly. The most prominent point in this report concerns actors in welfare activities. For the third year in a row, the Riksdag will therefore tell the government that it will come up with proposals on how it intends to work to increase diversity in the welfare sector. The reason why we are lying is that it is important for Sweden's citizens that there are alternatives to choose from. This may be school, home care, retirement home or health care centre. If there are alternatives, the focus on quality will increase. We know that competition helps to improve public operations, too, by reviewing their work processes and costs. And we are aware that in these industries too, creative entrepreneurs are needed, who come up with new ways of working and from which the public can learn. One seventh of the welfare services are currently provided by private providers. Diversity contributes to higher quality and improved resource use and is appreciated by children, parents and the elderly. If you put people in front of the systems, you realize the importance of different solutions, depending on the individual's needs or wishes. However, the government chooses instead to spend time and energy on how companies within the welfare sector can be countered. In this matter, the government should listen not only to the Riksdag but also to social democratic councillors, such as Lars Stjernqvist in Norrköping and Karin Wanngård in Stockholm. Social Democrats and environmentalists are therefore well aware that municipalities would not be able to cover all activities at risk of closure if the proposal were implemented. Last autumn, more than 245 000 children and young people attended independent primary and secondary schools. The government opposes practice and refuses to meet Parliament, not once, but twice, on this issue and instead prioritises spending resources on producing a proposal which it knows will not be implemented, or which will not even be possible to implement. It shows a wasteful behaviour as well as a lack of respect for our democratic system. And it's serious. By the way, it is not only the larger companies that would be affected by the proposal presented by the Reepalus investigation. Depending on the final proposal, it will, for example, also hit parents' cooperatives and foundations. Among other things, the parents' association Båstad Montessori, who runs preschools and an elementary school, has counted on this. Do the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party really think that the problems in welfare activities would be that some companies make profits? Mr President, I would like to There are many real problems and real challenges in the local government sector, not least in the long term. Demographic developments mean large retirements, while staff-intensive activities will be increasingly demanded. We have major challenges with the integration of new arrivals. And the municipalities in the country already have very different conditions to meet their commitments. We Moderates want the focus on welfare to be on the quality of operations, as well as on the activities to work as efficiently as possible. We want to treat the actors who perform welfare services as equally as possible, regardless of whether they are private companies or the public sector. We are also in favour of imposing requirements on service providers. And the actors must of course comply with the laws and regulations we have in Sweden, whether they are taxes or business requirements. Our main focus is that the inhabitants should have the opportunity to choose, or at least not be stopped from having the opportunity to choose. To ensure this, we want to create the best possible conditions for companies, including within welfare, so that they remain in Sweden and create jobs and thus tax revenues for our public operations. We want a society that tackles real problems. What strikes me when I read the Reepalus investigation is that it is first noted that the quality is deemed to be equivalent in private and public-run activities. Some parts are better here, and others are better there. Then it is shown that companies in the welfare sector are making a profit, even if they had to look for a while to find a key figure that shows it. From this, the investigation concludes that companies should be stopped from making profits. How did they land there? In my world, the natural question would be: If private companies deliver equivalent services and products of the same quality as municipalities and county councils but at a lower cost, why do municipalities and county councils have higher costs for delivering the same products and services? Why not take the opportunity to learn from private companies? Now I know that they do it out in the municipalities. But the idea does not seem to have struck Social Democrats, environmentalists or left-wing parties at national level. How else could the social problem of social democrats, environmentalists and left-wing parties be that companies make profits? Why do we not discuss what municipalities and county councils can do differently? And how can we contribute from the Riksdag to the municipalities and county councils having the right conditions for this? We can well hope that this year the government will do what Parliament told it to do last year – and the year before – i.e. produce proposals that will ensure that citizens will continue to have a common well-being of high quality in the future, regardless of who delivers it. I support paragraph 2.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-70	Mr President, I would like to I intend to start with what I and Anette Åkesson agree on, namely that it is important to secure the municipalities' funding in the long term, for the next 10 to 20 years like that. The Left Party ensured that there were 10 billion welfare billions to the local government sector during this term of office. We pushed this through in the budget last year. I simply wonder what the Moderates are doing to ensure the funding of the municipalities, Anette Åkesson. An area in which we may not agree quite equally can be summed up with diversity and benefits in welfare. What I'm fooling about when I hear Anette Åkesson is that it's a description that doesn't really match reality. Anette talks about the proportion that goes to free schools and other types of activities. But the problem is that, in many respects, there are a few large groups owned by venture capital which account for almost all these activities. The smaller players are quite many in number, but they represent only a small proportion of the total. I wonder if it is a problem for the Moderates that there are large venture capital groups that make big profits – over-profits as the Reepalus investigation states. You always come back to the Båstad Foundation or parent cooperatives as an example. I believe that we have listened to what Parliament has decided on, both in the Reepalus investigation and in the discussion of the bill that will be put on the table of Parliament. It is not the parent cooperatives and foundations that will be affected. It is the pursuit of profit as an incentive that is the problem, and it creates an error in the system. I'd like to see a diversity where you learn from each other. This applies to municipalities, non-profit actors and private stakeholders who want to create good education. The problem is that there is no learning from Academ edia. But one thing you can learn from Academedia is how to make an enormous profit and move it to tax havens. I do not want Swedish municipalities to learn from this company.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-76	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for the questions. There were many questions I could answer for a long time. I'll see if I manage to remember them and manage to answer them in a good way. Generally speaking, we Moderates have a greater focus on the work line. During the two terms of office that we moderated together with the alliance parties ruled the country, we showed that it is possible to combine reduced taxes with various reforms that lead to increased tax revenues for municipalities and county councils. Our policy thus increased the resources for the municipalities, and there is nothing to prevent it from continuing. Then there was also both a financial crisis and a recession. When it comes to ownership in various large schools, listed companies are very clear with their ownership share. Among the largest owners are consistently different funds. Our pension money is largely available in these sectors. In fact, we are all in one way or another partners in these companies. I do not see it as a problem, but I see it as a long-term investment. As far as profit is concerned, I have missed the question of why there have been some relatively high gains in these sectors in the past. At first, school money was too high because the municipalities themselves did not have control over their costs, but now it has been adjusted downwards. As municipalities have reviewed their costs – for example, building costs – municipalities have also become more efficient in taking advantage of the resources they have. Then school money has decreased, and the profits in these companies are no longer as great as they were at the beginning. It's a reasonable system. I am pleased that these companies exist, and I hope that they can continue to operate.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-81	Mr President, I would like to It can also be noted that the number of upper secondary school pupils has fallen sharply, which means that profits are reduced as they have fewer pupils. That's why there aren't as many schools. The important difference in how I and Anette Åkesson look at this issue is that for her the profit itself is not a problem, but it is a long-term investment that goes back to the owner. If you move it to a tax haven, that's not important either. What I think is that the incentive for the pursuit of profits is the problem. You get a welfare system that makes it function like a market. Sweden has the most liberal system for schools worldwide. Chile had a school system as privatised as we did, but it has been abolished. Now we're alone in being this extreme. There is no country comparable to Sweden. It leads to such strange effects as grade inflation, such as giving crack bread to children in preschool and giving a shit about old people in retirement homes. That's how you make a profit. They push down costs and reduce quality. Then you bring the profit out. Profits are used in various ways, including by buying schools in Saudi Arabia. For me, the problem is that it is the shareholders' dividend that is the incentive and that should be the focus. That's why you cut the costs. I do not really have a problem with the fact that there are non-profit players in the sector. I have no problem if you want to create a small company or a cooperative. That's not where the problem lies. Not everything has to be public. But when the prize hunt takes over in the way we have seen in Sweden, we must do something. I think we see a moderate party and bourgeois parties that are paralysed. Then I get the feeling that they are bought by the profit lobby in a way that makes fine dinners more important than how our students are doing.
i-RYUkiozB7fMArqT3EbPNDs	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Håkan Svenneling! Of course, I do not share that picture at all. You talked about that something that distinguishes Sweden is that we have a sector with private welfare. But I see it the other way around so that Sweden stands out because we have private alternatives that everyone has the opportunity to use. We cannot do that in other countries, because if we do, we need money. That is the big difference that I do not think has been sufficiently highlighted. The difference is not that we have different systems, but the difference is that in Sweden everyone – whether rich or poor – can make use of private alternatives. Profits are needed, absolutely, in these companies. They must be able to save for various investments over the years. You can't do everything every year. It was under the alliance government that the possibility of transferring money to tax havens was stopped in various ways. Agreements started to be signed, and they were concluded in cooperation with OECD countries and so on. The Alliance government showed very clearly that the money should be used where it is needed, namely in welfare. That's it. I would like to conclude with the question I raised in my speech. I did not ask it to Håkan Svenneling because he asked many questions that I needed time to answer. I don't understand the problem. If private companies deliver equivalent services and products at a lower cost, how can that be a problem? Why do you not appreciate this and see it as something positive that you should take advantage of? The opportunity for municipalities and county councils to learn – which they do in part, as they become more and more effective also in the public sector – should be something positive and not something that should be prevented. Why is that a problem for the Left Party? ( ANDRE VICE TALMANNEN: Now Håkan Svenneling is not entitled to any more lines, but I will give him an opportunity to answer the question if he so wishes. )
i-ead9d8c281795c87-92	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for that, and I take advantage of this opportunity. I tried to answer the question by saying that it is not profit in itself that is the problem for us, but it is the pursuit of profit as an incentive to get an error in the system. As long as the prize hunt is in focus and as long as rich directors say they are worth a bottle of wine when they have put down a lot of schools, then you have created problems in the system. If we do away with profit hunting as an incentive, I think we will have a better school and welfare system.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-95	Mr President, I would like to Being able to talk municipal questions is always stimulating for a former municipal commissioner like myself. I think it is important that there are municipal politicians or people who have a municipal experience in this Parliament. Much of what is decided in this House will eventually become local policies that affect people. I always defend municipal autonomy because it is the foundation of Swedish democratic society and it has a history that is older than the Swedish state. Sometimes I may think that there is too strong a belief in government detail management and targeted government contributions by several parties here in Parliament. I would just like to remind you of what it says in the form of government, which is one of Sweden's four constitutions. The first paragraph reads as follows:... All public power in Sweden is based on the people. The Swedish National Board is based on free opinion formation and on universal and equal voting rights. It is implemented through representative and parliamentary government and through municipal self-government. Public power is exercised under the laws. It's an important paragraph to remember. Mr President, I would like to The municipal levelling system plays a major role in Sweden, but it is also criticised by some who think that the system is unfair and inhibits the growth of municipalities with high tax rates. However, there are a number of myths about the equalisation system. The toughest myth is probably that it is Stockholm County that supports Norrbotten and Västerbotten. In real money, Stockholm County actually receives more than Norrbotten and Västerbotten receive. If there is any direction that equalizing billions take, it is towards Skåne and Västra Götaland. The principle of redistribution is essentially based on three different legs: demography, geography and socio-economics. The idea is to compensate municipalities with a higher proportion of older people in the population, long distances between residents and high proportion of people with low income or benefit dependency. The municipal levelling system receives criticism from many quarters. The sparsely populated area feels distributed, Täby feels fire-rated and Malmö is identified as the largest contributor by all. The system regularly teaseses gall fever on people at the so-called paying end. Others see themselves at the same time as insufficiently compensated, not least in northern Sweden's sparsely populated areas where there is a lot of muttering. What everyone agrees on is that the villain in the drama is Malmö. What many do not know is that Malmö has less tax power than Pajala and Övertorneå. Is the municipal levelling system really that unreasonable? In short, the equalisation system means that municipalities with economically favourable conditions can share with municipalities with less favourable conditions. It is true that about a quarter of Malmö's municipal budget comes from the municipal levelling system. But is that really a correct way to look at the levelling like this? The reasonable thing should be to look at what the redistribution looks like per inhabitant? Then the picture becomes a completely different one. It is then sparsely populated municipalities in Norrland that receive the most in the municipal equalisation system for the same reasons I have just mentioned. One argument that is usually put forward is that the state should equalise between the municipalities and not the municipalities among themselves. That's the way it is. The state accounts for ten times as much money as the municipalities in the income compensation system. Mr President, I would like to Is the current system good? I'm going to answer that question myself. If it's good depends on who you ask. I can only say that as long as we have municipal self-government, where the municipalities have to look after and pay for care, school and care, there is a need for a levelling-up system. The system itself consists of five different parts. Two elements dominate: income equalisation and cost equalisation. An investigation is now under way to review the cost compensation part, as Håkan Svenneling mentioned. It should be borne in mind that it consists of only one tenth of the income equalisation component. So it's a pretty small part. The study looks at the structural differences in the calculation model and sees whether they are relevant and correct. I myself sit in the reference group of the inquiry together with my colleague in the Finance Committee Ingemar Nilsson. In addition to looking at structural differences, the investigation also tries to find incentives that will make it pay for municipalities to improve themselves, as some have criticised. There is also a much larger investigation, the Municipal Investigation. The chairman of the parliamentary committee is our colleague on the Finance Committee, Niklas Karlsson, and Anette Åkesson and I are also part of it. The investigation has submitted an interim report on municipal contractual cooperation, an area on which we agreed. I hope that the interim report will be on Parliament's table in the spring. I also hope that the investigation will be able to deliver a number of sharp proposals when it is completed in autumn 2019. Mr President, I would like to In a debate on municipal issues, one must address as a centre party the question of the restrictions on people's freedom of choice that the government parties, eagerly impelled by the Left Party, want to impose. In paragraph 2 of the report, for the third year in a row, there is once again a call on the government, in what is known as the announcement, to come back with proposals on how to increase diversity in the welfare sector. The government's disregard for Parliament's repeated calls is not good. The Center Party and the Alliance want to see proposals for measures to increase freedom of choice, diversity and quality in schools, health care and care for the elderly. If you want people to have real freedom of choice, there must be private alternatives. The obsession that exists over profits in companies in the welfare sector means that one does not have the best interests of the individual in mind. Instead of focusing on efficiency and quality, the government and the Left Party want to introduce a profit limit based on operational capital, which means that companies in the welfare sector that work with people and do not own properties and machines are basically banned from profit. This means that fully functioning activities that people themselves have chosen because they think they are good will be closed down or go bankrupt. What is the problem if people choose a private-run business that works well, has high quality, has satisfied staff and can also make a profit on the same amount of money as the public-run business costs? The good thing about freedom of choice is that bad business is removed regardless of whether it is private or public. If there were to be over-profits, which in itself is a strange concept, in an activity that costs as much as the public, perhaps a legitimate Social Democrat should think about how the publicly run business works and what Gustav Möller meant by every wasted tax crown being a theft from the people.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-110	Mr President, I would like to Most of the consumer policy has been debated earlier in the parliamentary term. That's why I'm going to stick to what's happened. For me, it is important that consumers are not exploited by companies. We have noted that there are sometimes problems with excessive price increases, mainly linked to craft services. As a consumer of craft services, you have a far-reaching responsibility of your own to prevent the craftsman from charging you a higher price than the service and the goods are worth to you. When buying services, consumers normally ask what hourly price the craftsman charges. What is more difficult to compare, however, is the mark-up on used materials. It is easy to understand that craftsmen do not want to use materials that the customer has bought. As a craftsman, you want to be able to defend the quality of what is delivered, and you want the final product to be good. The craftsman also wants to be well aware of how the products work. However, there is a distortion of competition when craftsmen have different profits on the products used in the service itself. If the customer compares the hourly price of craftsmen, it may well be that the cheapest person has a higher mark-up on their delivered products, which makes the final product still more expensive. You can ask for quotes and get most of the details. However, it is often only a theoretical possibility if the work is not extensive. Today there is a shortage of many kinds of craftsmen, and often it is difficult to find someone who even wants to take on the job at running cost. For smaller jobs it is not always practical to request a quote. In principle, then, only the assessment can be made on the basis of hourly rates, which will be misleading if some craftsmen have much higher mark-ups than others on the products supplied in connection with the service. The Swedish Democrats therefore want to review the laws that are intended to regulate the consumer market, in order to investigate how the consumer can be able to see differences between the prices of different craftsmen and to make it impossible for craftsmen to charge unduly for a product delivered in connection with a service. This can be done by making it easier to see differences in the mark-up between different craftsmen and thus enabling the consumer to make an active choice or by limiting the mark-up that is possible for the craftsman. Mr President, I would like to We also have this thing about the sale of animals. It has actually been debated in the past, but it still comes up here through the Center Party. The sale of animals cannot be seen as just any commodity. This was agreed by all parties, not earlier when we sent an announcement, but we were at least last week at Hästföretagarforum in Gothenburg. It is particularly interesting that the government parties now also believe that animals must be excluded from the Consumer Sales Law. This means that we can now expect the government parties to also come up with an exemption proposal shortly, if it is not the case that their representative in Gothenburg just said what was right at the moment. The Center Party is here pursuing a line of negotiating derogations within the EU so as not to count animals as ordinary consumer goods. No such derogation is needed according to other countries, such as France, which has already made an exception for trade in animals itself. Apparently, it went perfectly well. Sweden can, of course, make a similar exception if you want, and that is what virtually all parties want. This applies at least to all the parties involved in the Gothenburg debate last week. All parties were present there except the Left Party. In addition to the Left Party, the other parties therefore fully agreed that animals should not be treated like other commodities. That is why there is really no reason to debate this any more. I would like to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation No 4 in paragraph 4.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-122	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! All of us can probably view ourselves as consumers on a slightly larger or a little smaller scale. All purchases that we are not satisfied with cannot be blamed on the one we have bought the product from. Nor can we always blame the way in which we have been attracted to a purchase or an agreement on, for example, electricity or subscriptions to telephony. For the Center Party, it is important to protect the consumer, but it is also important to ensure that the trader who lives from manufacturing or buying goods or services for sale can obtain a market for his products. In a functioning market, there is a balance between these parties. We should also remember that we are all consumers, even if we sometimes take on the role of seller. In a market economy, this is an interaction where there should be clear laws and rules on how to behave and when you have the right to complain about a product you are not satisfied with. A person who has committed an error may assume his or her responsibilities and compensate the person who has suffered damage. Telephone sales are one of the areas where consumer protection needs to be strengthened. Some form of written contract or receipt by the buyer should be required. The Center Party has been calling for this for a long time and we look forward to finally taking a position on a government proposal on this issue. There has long been a majority in favour of written contracts for telephone sales. For us, it is important that the legislation does not unnecessarily complicate where there is already a relationship between sellers and buyers. It is important that the agreement can be designed in such a way that it is as simple as possible for both parties to conclude the agreement and understand what has been agreed. The development we have with an increasing online trade, where for many young people the first job and the first experience of sales are jobs at a call centre with sales, telephone interviews and other things, means that the requirement for contracts should not be something that for both parties is perceived as unnecessary regulatory hassle. We do not want to put our feet away for an entire industry, but we want to protect the weak party. Many are older people who may own a forest property or a small company. It is important that new legislation does not distinguish between private individuals and traders in this case. Many of the Centre Party's various individual motions are about that, but we have already made decisions on and dealt with simplified ones. Nevertheless, I choose to mention this, which is an important issue, especially for many older people in rural areas. Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! What I would like to endorse today is the Center Party's reservation 2, which criticises the fact that the Consumer Protection Act makes no distinction between buying or selling a toaster and whether it is a live animal, such as a riding horse. According to the Consumer Sales Law, you have the same right to claim a live animal as to claim a dead thing, a non-living thing. It goes without saying that it is not a reasonable order when it is the same thing to buy a pair of jeans or a smartphone as it is to buy a live animal. This is also the reason why many traders who own and breed horses are reluctant to sell them to private individuals. They know that with the support of the Consumer Sales Law, the buyer can invoke an error in the goods after six months of neglect or mismanagement, when it turns out that the animal no longer behaves as it did when the purchase was made. In most cases, it is easier to understand and care for a toaster than to care for a horse. Above all, it is easier to detect a fault in it. It should therefore be just as easy to complain about this toaster, but there should be a considerable difference in the consumer protection law between it and a living animal. Mr President, I would like to It is not only in the horse industry that this has become a problem, but also very much in the case of dogs sold by a kennel to a private person who does not know the needs and characteristics of the specific breed, does not give the dog the right food, leaves it alone or puts it in situations where it feels insecure. Dog psychologists are said to be busy, as would the man who could talk to horses. The Center Party's movements say a great deal about the importance of the horse industry, the amounts of money put into circulation, how much work it creates and what it means for the whole country, and there is no need to repeat this here. We know that these are rules that also need to be changed at European level. Let us strive for it, while doing what we can in our own legislation, in response to Mikael Eskilandersson. However, we demand that the government raise this issue to negotiation and satisfy the parliamentary decisions we have on announcements. For time winning, I do not agree to the Center Party's reservation 1. We propose that the right of complaint should be allowed to follow the goods, rather than the one to whom the original buyer belongs today. The reasons for this are environmental. We simply want it to be possible, even when a product has changed its owner, to detect a defect that has occurred. We live in a society where too much is torn and thrown away. Many products are not even worn out when they are thrown away, but could very well be taken over and used by someone else. Anyone who takes over a product – such as that toaster that I talked about earlier – within six months after it was bought, according to the Consumer Sales Law, has no right to return the product and have it replaced, but has to throw it away. Mr President, I would like to In a circular economy where we share the benefits of goods and services, legislation must accompany and promote sustainable consumption – hence our reservation 1. I repeat my motion for assent to reservation 2.
i-HPwoRAibDnnzv4uxujsYEg	Mr President, I would like to Members and listeners! The Left Party has two reservations in the Committee on Civil Liberties's report on consumer law. A good way not to overconsume is to share, rent or borrow, what is called sharing economy. Although the collaborative economy is at an early stage in Sweden, there are clear trends that this type of economy is growing at an increasingly rapid pace. In its report, the study on users in the collaborative economy has not considered that there is a reason to review legislation in this area. I don't share the assessment of the investigation. Today, consumer legislation is designed to buy between a trader or entrepreneur and a private individual. In the case of common consumption, goods or services are often rented, shared or purchased between individuals. For such consumption, consumer protection is currently very limited. I think it is good that the Government has commissioned the Swedish Consumer Agency to provide general information on the rules that may apply to transactions within the collaborative economy and in other agreements between private individuals regarding the purchase of goods or services and to monitor the development of such transactions. However, I also think that the current legislation needs to be reviewed to ensure that consumer protection is developed so that consumers can feel safe with common consumption. Joint consumption is also called collaborative – a new word for me anyway. I therefore believe that the government should further examine the question of how to strengthen consumer protection in the collaborative economy.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-138	Mr President, I would like to Long paydays are a problem for smaller companies. When payments are delayed, liquidity is strained, which in many cases means limitations, not least in terms of opportunities for expansion and recruitment. For public authorities and other public bodies, there is a mandatory rule on a maximum payment period of 30 days. I believe that the rule should also apply in relations between entrepreneurs. The Parliament has previously addressed two announcements to the Government regarding payment times in the business sector. In spring 2014 the Riksdag decided to announce that the Government should return to the Riksdag as soon as possible with proposals for legislation that means that a claim in commercial transactions between traders should always be paid no later than 30 days after the creditor made a claim for payment. It is urgent that the government now returns to Parliament with a bill in accordance with this announcement. The Left Party supports both reservations, but I only support reservation 3.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-141	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to deal with the civil committee's report No 10, which some have mentioned here before, which deals with consumer law. The allowances and reservations include the right to complain about the purchase of goods, the purchase of live animals, the position of users in the sharing economy, the purchase of goods in connection with work services and pay times in business. It is 45 requests for exercise that are dealt with in simplified order. This means that the committee refers to positions taken earlier in the parliamentary term. I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. In many of the subjects dealt with in these motions, work is under way both at EU and government level, so the committee does not find reason to go ahead and wants to wait in the event of ongoing investigations or ongoing negotiations with the EU. Instead, I intend to devote my speaking time to what has happened during the current term of office with regard to consumer rights. Mr President! Here are some examples: 中 The Consumer Ombudsman has been given the opportunity, under certain conditions, to prohibit companies from engaging in unlawful marketing practices immediately, without having to go to court first. There was a proposal on 2015/16 and a report on the same subject in committee. The government has taken several measures to counter over-indebtedness. This is one of the most important things that has happened during the term of office. A strategy against over-indebtedness was presented in the 2016 Budget Bill. This strategy includes, among other things, a new debt restructuring act and preventive efforts. This is done, among other things, by instructing the Swedish Consumer Agency to collaborate with different types of actors to counteract over-indebtedness and to develop recommendations for budget and debt advisors' activities. A bill on interest caps and other measures in the market for quick loans and other high-cost credits has been submitted to Parliament, which is very welcome. Many improvements have been made to the consumer's ability to resolve disputes with companies through an increase in funding to the General Complaints Board. 中 Consumer information has been improved by further financial investment in the information service Hello consumer, which is run by the Swedish Consumer Agency. The Swedish Real Estate Authority has received an increased grant for a more active, comprehensive and substantiated supervision of real estate agents. It was included in the 2017 budget proposal. A strategy for sustainable consumption that will make it easier for consumers to act sustainably was presented in the 2017 budget proposal. The strategy includes, among other things, commissions to the Swedish Consumer Agency to set up and provide a forum for environmentally smart consumption and stimulate environmentally smart consumption patterns. 中 A renewed assignment has been given to the Swedish Consumer Agency to report on the state of the various consumer markets and on consumers' conditions and problems. The Government has also set up an investigation to map users' terms and conditions in the collaborative economy, and the Swedish Consumer Agency has been tasked with conveying general information about such transactions and other agreements between private individuals. A study has been set up to map and analyse the changing advertising landscape. The Swedish Consumer Agency has been granted financial resources for the continued operation and development of the Money from Sweden information service. It's in the 2018 budget bill. The Swedish Consumer Agency, together with the Swedish Procurement Authority, has been given the task of promoting more reliable information about production conditions in other countries and also of providing support to civil society actors for informing consumers about these issues. Funds have been allocated to the Swedish Consumer Agency. The financial support for civil society actors provided by the Swedish Consumer Agency under the Regulation on State aid to organisations active in the field of consumer protection has been increased. It is also included in the 2018 budget proposal. Finally, a mandate has been given to the Discrimination Ombudsman to identify the prevalence of gender stereotypes and sexist advertising and to consider the need for further measures in the form of developed self-regulation and training. All in all, this means that a great deal has been done to the benefit of consumers this year.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-157	Mr President, I would like to I am grateful for listening to the report by Eva Sonidsson of all the government's achievements in the field of consumer policy during her term of office. One thing that I raised in my speech, and which I think she also mentioned, is the legislative proposal that is on the way and that is about limiting and demanding written contracts for telephone sales. We have received some information about what the bill will mean and how restrictive it will be in different sectors. I understand that it is the legislator's spirit that lotteries should be exempt from telephone sales. If it is something that creates major social problems and leads to personal tragedies, it is getting caught up in gambling. It is convinced by a telephone vendor to subscribe for a lottery subscription for large national organisations that are authorised to run the lottery. There are plans to exempt ticket sales from the requirement for written contracts in the case of telephone sales. I think that's unpretty. I know that there are other speakers who will bring it up a little later. I wonder why Eva Sonidsson intends to support such a thing and how else she intends to get to the disadvantage of letting people fast in gambling addiction through lottery sales by telephone.
i-QJM4uVvbhCh7DeeCoUqMmw	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ola Joh ansson, for your intervention in the debate! This is a big question. The issue of telephone sales has been debated for quite some time both in the government and in our committee. It's a big problem. At this point, we may have to take one step at a time. The bill that will now span quite white over an area that is difficult to handle. I agree that gambling addiction is a major problem in this matter. A contract is signed over the phone, which many are tempted to do when they are persuaded to win large sums of money that they may not do. Here we also have the whole piece of advertising with the television commercials. It washes over us daily when you look at the funded channels. There you can look at ten different gaming companies that advertise during an evening to start playing. It's a big problem. I do not think that this issue is solved by telephone sales alone. But I hope that in the long term we will also be able to tackle this problem.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-164	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Eva Sonidsson, for your answer! It is a major and complex problem we are talking about. I tried in my post to be a little reasoning. Telephone sales can have many advantages. It is a simple and quick way to make an agreement to buy a product or service that you need. It is unnecessary to set too high a requirement for such a written agreement to be drawn up. It is also important that we do not prevent people from being able to access goods and services that they actually need. In my world, lottery tickets and games are not something anyone needs. It is possible that I do not have the competition instinct required by a lottery buyer. But I realize that there are a lot of people who have an excessive competitive instinct and easily end up in such an addiction. That is why it is particularly surprising and almost a little sad that the Social Democrats are now presenting a legislative proposal on written contracts for telephone sales, as we have all wanted, excluding this sector. There, of course, the purpose is to make money. It is important that association life can do so. But this also puts people in an addiction. Then we have to go in with society's efforts in the form of debt restructuring. We have to take care of children who suffer and provide for the continued livelihood of people when the source of their situation has come from being persuaded to buy lottery tickets that they do not need.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-167	Mr President, I would like to Ola Johansson! I can share that view. Nor do I think that gambling should be on the map, not at the level it is today and not in view of the effect it may have. There may be advantages to it too, but not as you describe it. As far as telephone sales are concerned, I do not believe that the problem of gambling addiction has been associated with telephone sales. Here it is just as you described in your speech. It is about those who are tempted to conclude other agreements, of which they are not aware. You subscribe to different things or subscribe for a subscription that you may not have thought at all in the initial phase – this because you cannot resist and because you cannot resist the argument that the seller in this case attracts. Let's see what happens. Perhaps I do not think that games should have been excluded either. But we'll see where we land. We hope, in any case, that there will be a stop to at least the everyday problem of telephone sales. Many people have got into problems with subscriptions and so on.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-170	Mr President, I would like to Under the alliance government, the government's objective for consumer policy was that the consumer should have the power and the ability to make active and conscious choices. The objective was based on the consumer's ability to make his or her own choices and on the need for a regulatory framework that makes it easier for consumers to make informed and informed choices. That objective should, of course, be reinstated. In today's debate, I intended to highlight a few consumer issues that are particularly urgent, in addition to what we have debated in the past. I thought I'd pick up where Ola Johansson was just now. There is broad consensus in the Riksdag that telephone sales can be a problem and that aggressive telephone sales can be a problem. It is therefore almost incomprehensible that the Social Democrats want to exempt lottery sales by telephone. So they want to exclude lottery sales by telephone from written confirmations. I visited the Swedish Consumer Agency in Karlstad and listened to some of the phone calls they had. I and the Swedish people can be happy and grateful for the resolute behaviour that the Swedish Consumer Agency did towards a lottery business that had very demanding phone vendors – and it was of course pure bluff they were doing. It is very good that our authorities have acted. It is therefore sad that the Social Democrats are making a legislative proposal to exclude lottery sales. Mr President, I would like to This is, of course, because – that is my theory – that the Social Democrats have significant revenue from lotteries. Lotteries have previously been sold for payment to debtors. I think it's very bad. I hope that the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party will come to their senses and supplement the possible legislative proposal with just written confirmation at lottery sales. Then that is what my colleague Ola Johansson said. We're all consumers. Today, trade is much more global. I myself got pretty pissed off when I read about a smartphone manufacturer that slows down speed when updating their smartphone. You are really quite powerless when you press the update button and notice that the phone becomes slow. I have brought this to the attention of the government. I was told that the government is working on it at European level. It is good that Sweden is part of the EU. This means that we can work with or with global companies at international level. Then I would like to highlight the municipal consumer guidance, which is extremely important. That's where I'm concerned. I am also a local politician in Gävle. It is worrying when the government increases the supply support very strongly but does not send with any funding. Support is being increased, but no funding is being sent. It is clear that from a municipal perspective there can be concerns when municipalities have to start looking at: What is non-statutory activity? Where to cut if you get millions of dollars? Such policies are, of course, in danger of hitting the municipal consumer guide. I would like to make a serious appeal to Sweden's municipalities: be careful of the municipal consumer guidance guide! It's needed for a lot of people. We have debated earlier in this House. I noted that the Socialist Member of Parliament, Eva Sonidsson, highlighted what the government has done. It is then natural that I emphasise what the government has not done. One of the most serious things you haven't done anything about is beauty treatments. There is no consumer protection whatsoever. Every day, every week and all year round, young people in Sweden are at risk of serious but and serious injuries. I think it is quite natural for Sweden to believe that we have a high level of consumer protection in all areas, but in this area there is a non-existent level of consumer protection. And the government has had a full term of office to solve the problem. We can only regret this. I hope that the forthcoming alliance government will address this issue as soon as possible. Another issue that the government may not have been working so actively on today, says Svenska Dagbladet. The headline is: Big risks with pirated tires. It is quite dangerous when consumers buy what they think is a brand tyre, and it turns out to be a copy. Consumer issues tend to become more and more global. Mr President, I would like to We have had four years when, unfortunately, the government has not delivered much in the area of consumer law. I hope that the incoming possible alliance government will address important issues. These include beauty operations, strengthening consumer protection and the global trade in smartphones. We have international trade, where both Postnord and customs have more or less neglected to collect VAT from Swedish consumers. Now that we are doing this all of a sudden, we are making retroactive legislation. From today I may have to pay high fees even though I may have ordered my products in December. We cannot do that, but it must be order and order in consumer law policy as well.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-180	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes it takes a little while to land on various issues. I would just like to clarify the written requirement for the sale of tickets by telephone. That was not part of the mission, in the directive for the investigation. This came to the conclusion that the requirement would be included in the Distance Contracts Act, which does not include lottery sales – it exists in other areas. This explains why gambling services are also not covered by EU consumer law directives, on which distance contracts are based, and that there is specific consumer protection in this area. That is one of the reasons why the lottery sales are not included in this particular directive and legislative proposals.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-181	Mr President, I would like to We have heard that explanation earlier from other Social Democratic politicians. It would have surprised me very much, Mr President, if the Social Democrats had said something like this: No, of course we are making an exception for the telephone sale of lottery tickets, because our party is dependent on all the tens of millions of crowns that we draw into the lottery every year. Therefore, we have previously sold lottery tickets to debtors in Sweden on credit. No, Mr President, I do not think the Social Democrats would say that, but that is, of course, the reason. Then you can always find many different reasons why you do not fix a serious social problem that requires a solution. I am very pleased that the Swedish Consumer Agency and the Patent and Market Court decided very resolutely, for example, that the IOGT-NTO was simply not allowed to sell lottery tickets, because their phone vendors were very demanding and that was not okay. I had hoped and thought that the Social Democrats, even though you are in danger of having your economy affected, would address this issue and, of course, put in place written agreements even in the case of lottery sales.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-185	Mr President, I would like to If I don't remember correctly, this investigation began during the Alliance's time, so I don't know who to blame for not being there. As can be seen from the legislative referral, the government does not rule out the possibility of looking at gambling services and telephone sales of gambling services in the future. So we must look forward to a wise government that intends to work with that part to change and be removed.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-187	Mr President, I would like to If there is any party in Sweden that has a good knowledge of lottery sales on the phone, it is in fact the Social Democrats, not least after the big scandal where we could see how the Social Democrats sold lottery tickets on credit to over-indebted people. The problem must therefore be well known to the government party and, of course, if we really wanted to remedy this social problem, we would have done so. It is Eva Sonidsson's party that is in the government. They are free to make proposals at any time; we cannot do that in the future. I think the Swedish people would understand if the Social Democrats were honest: you have significant revenue from lottery sales, so it is an important source of income for the Social Democrats. Unfortunately, therefore, we do not seem to be prepared to take any steps whatsoever to deal with telephone sales in the case of lotteries.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-190	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the approval of Amendments Nos 10 and 11. The report is divided into sport and outdoor life, which I will be debating, as well as adult education, which my colleague Eva Lohman will be debating. As a sports political spokesperson, I have often stressed how proud I am of the Swedish sports movement and all that it includes. This by far the largest popular movement includes over 3 million members and 650 000 non-profit leaders in about 20 000 associations – leaders who work with our children and young people in an invaluable way every day to make them have meaningful leisure time. Sport is an important part of society and is also affected by many political decisions. These decisions also go over several ministries and ministers. Sport issues have now – to be welcomed, we have to say – gained an increasing place in social discussions, which can be directly attributed to the fact that in sport we find the very best tools for, for example, better public health, integration and community. But now that households get less margins and exclusion increases, it is often the sports experience or the practice of sport that has to be prioritised first. Families simply cannot always afford to allow their children to participate in the sports community as they would like. For us Moderates, the right of all children and young people to participate in sport is one of the most important areas of priority. We Moderates want to design a sport that reaches everyone. Specifically for children and young people, we also propose a new initiative called Sports at Leisure, where the Swedish School Sports Association is given the task of designing a project in which sport becomes an even clearer part of leisure centres' activities. We know that about 400 000 children and young people are present in leisure activities, and we also know that not all children and young people have a tradition or a natural connection to association life, an association life that is actually quite unique to Sweden. Sports at leisure is therefore a very good arena to reach a wide range of children and young people. Mr President, I would like to Young people suffer from unreasonable demands. Abuse, disease, and self - injury are often an expression of this. We Moderates therefore want to initiate a concerted effort on this social problem through an investigation into enhanced cooperation between state and sport on this particular subject. The use of illegal hormones among mainly young men who practice strength has increased in recent decades. At the same time, the number of Swedish elite athletes convicted of cheating through doping is very small. Doping has thus moved from elite sport into society in general, and therefore the issue of doping is now a bigger issue than just sport. It is a social issue and a major social problem. Nevertheless, the anti-doping work in Sweden is still taking place within the Swedish Sports Federation. We Moderates want to create an independent, independent anti-doping organisation – for the credibility of sport. Only Russia and Sweden now do not have independent anti-doping activities. Physical activity is one of the most important factors in keeping people healthy with increasing age. Therefore, motivating older people to practice regularly is important both from a human and from a socio-economic perspective. More and more people live longer, which is a great success for society at large and which creates new opportunities, but it also partly places new demands on society. We Moderates therefore want to create an older lift, an older one, to stimulate associations to give older people the opportunity to practise precisely organised sport. The Moderates also want to strengthen their work on sport for newcomers and to identify how socio-economic factors affect children's and young people's sports. As I have said before, sport is doing great work for children and young people. However, there are young people who suffer ill and are subjected to unreasonable demands, penlistic leadership and, in some cases, abuse. In order to prevent this from happening, the sports movement needs to be educated on children's rights issues, and we want to investigate what such work should look like. We Moderates also have a party decision to reintroduce the leisure money introduced by the Alliance Government, an important instrument. It was about SEK 3 000 per year for children whose parents have had income support for at least six months. That's the arrangement. The leisure allowance, which this government has removed, thus created opportunities for children in socio-economically vulnerable families to engage in sports. Public health issues have become increasingly focused. Overweight and obesity are, unfortunately, becoming more common among the population. Today, we know that over 50% of Sweden's population is overweight or obese. Here, sport and the open-air sector can contribute to prevention. Sports and outdoor activities are therefore sound, necessary and well-invested. Swedish Outdoor Life has 1.8 million members of whom 300 000 are children and young people. These actors, too, actively highlight the major societal problems resulting from the lack of physical activity, which costs society billions of dollars each year. Sport and outdoor life are extremely important aspects of public health and are influenced by politics, as I mentioned earlier. The government's increased taxes on teachers, firefighters, police officers and others, as well as on future air taxes and increases in taxes on petrol, diesel and jobs, have a major impact on people's opportunities to engage in sports and outdoor activities. The Moderates obviously say no to these for sport and outdoor life directly harmful taxes. People need more sport in their everyday lives – not less. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say thank you to all those who contribute in some way to the sports movement and the open-air sector. You're all our everyday heroes.
i-35VmGxw87ukHsp6ww7hFZM	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin, for us Swedish democrats, by calling for the approval of our reservation 12, which means that Parliament approves our motion 2017/ 18:1607 motion 2. Furthermore, I would like to accept reservation 5, which means that the Parliament approves our motion 2017/ 18:1608 motion 5. Mr President, I would like to Report 2017/ 18:KRU2 Sport, outdoor life and education is a very important report that concerns everyone. I intend today to focus on our two requests. According to the Swedish Sports Federation, the problem of match fixing is so big that it counts as one of the biggest threats to future competitive sports. Even in the Halland sports world, from which I come, we are not spared. There are several suspected match fixing cases in the county in recent years. A player in Halmstads Bollklubb must have been offered money and turned down before a Swedish match against Malmö last autumn, according to P4 Halland. This is worrying, Mr President. In recent years, information has shown that match fixing occurs in Sver ige in connection with sports Evenem ang. A great deal has been done, and the Swedish Sports Federation has invested a great deal of resources in informing about the problem and taking strong action against the problems that exist. This is, of course, a good thing. At the same time, we believe that more measures should be taken to overcome the problem. We like to see a penalty and that match fixing should be seen as a serious crime because it affects not only the individual but also the team and the local association. But this also applies generally to all those involved in the sports world as match fixing undermines confidence in the sports world's competition. Due to the penalty value for bribery, the police lack the possibility and authority to use, among other things, telephone wiretaps. It is a method that has been successfully used in several major international havocs. We Swedish democrats therefore propose that the government review the possibility of increasing the penalty for bribery. In addition, we propose an increased Nordic cooperation in this area. All Nordic associations have now agreed to develop a joint action plan on how to counteract and prevent match fixing. In addition, within the framework of parliamentary cooperation, the Nordic Council has put the issue on its agenda. The Swedish Democrats support the joint strength of the Nordic sports federations on this issue. Within the Nordic Council, the work has not met with any opposition from the other parties. It is therefore our hope, Mr President, that the other parties in this House, too, can support our motion, which is in line with the work of the Nordic countries. The Swedish Democrats have over the years stressed the importance of sport for public health and how important it is that there are good opportunities for sport and physical activity for all groups in society. One part of our ambition is to promote public health in all social groups. With the help of state support for sport, we want to encourage the sports movement to make a national assessment of economic and operational needs in order to establish a national parasportotek. We are open to providing the resources required by the parasports in order to make it possible, at national level, to set up a sports theatre with the sports equipment that can not infrequently be costly for the individual with disabilities. In this way we can ensure that everyone has the opportunity to try out new sports regardless of the physical condition to find the form of exercise that suits the individual.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-215	Mr President, I would like to Sport has so much to give in terms of health, joy and association. At the same time, it is also through sport that you can gain insight into and knowledge about association activities, voluntary engagement and, by extension, knowledge of democracy and civic engagement. It is therefore important to promote a broad and accessible sporting life throughout the country. It should be a sports life where both established and new sports, including digital ones, become available to more people. The Center Party wants to see general simplifications in the administration of support for association life, not least for associations that work with efforts that lead to integration and community. It is important that the application process for associations takes place in an efficient and smooth way, but also that the voluntary involvement and function of associations in society is valued even more. Accessibility and the possibility to participate are important. Often, as a child or youth, you can try several different activities before you find the one that suits you. I think we all have that experience when it comes to our sports achievements and our sports practices. But, Mr President, there are differences and obstacles, and they must be combated and removed. It may be that you have a functional condition that makes the normal sports association's activities difficult to participate in. Then there is the parasport, which offers an exciting palette of sports. I can really recommend to take part of Paralympics, which starts in about a week, to get an exciting picture of what the parasport can offer. However, some parasports require special equipment that is often costly. Having to purchase expensive equipment before you have even been able to try out if it is the sport that becomes your passion can become an insurmountable obstacle. It can also be an insurmountable obstacle for an association that wants to get involved in the parasport to have to buy in expensive but necessary equipment before you even know if there is enough interest in a bet. Therefore, it should be investigated how to create a national association-run library where parasport equipment can be borrowed. Such a library can also help to enable an active outdoor life that may also require adapted equipment if you have different functional conditions. Mr President, I would like to Girls stop playing sports at an earlier age than boys. To influence norms takes time, but today's government – the Social Democrats and the Green Party – is on tools that could quickly be used to reduce system failures. Unfortunately, you don't. There is much today that makes it difficult for girls and women to exercise sports on equal terms. There is also a link between girls who stop playing sports in their early teens and increased mental illness as well as increased risk of osteoporosis later on. Why is it still like this? Many factors seem to interact, and several different actors are responsible. It is everything from state and municipality to civil society and others. But we know that sport is good for both physical and mental well-being. Then it must also be important to find out why girls stop earlier so that effective action can be taken. For example, according to the Swedish Parliament's Investigation Service, there is currently no national comparison of the amount of funds that municipalities allocate to children's and young people's sports and what the distribution is for boys and girls. It is also about how training times in halls and stadiums are distributed. The Center Party therefore wants to see a broad analysis of what prevents equality of sport from being carried out. This is in order for the Swedish Sports Federation to have a clearer mission to achieve gender equality in Swedish sports as well. Inequality in sport begins with the first crunchy training on baby bones and is a problem that is multiplied over time. Mr President, I would like to Civil society with associations, sport, outdoor life and education plays an incredibly large and important role in the development of society and democracy. This applies, for example, to the Adult School project Mitt Val, which started before the 2014 election year and aimed at people with intellectual disabilities. Through study circles that support and educate people with intellectual disabilities in taking part in and using their civil right to vote, My choice helps to give some of our citizens in Sweden the opportunity to use their right to influence the society we live in. They are now continuing with My Election Study Circles around our country so that more and more people can use their vote, their right, in this year's elections. The study circle can also be the beginning of something much larger, a beginning of something that might not have been anticipated. What I would like to point out is freedom and transparency, which give peoples the power to meet each individual through education where they stand to take it further into lifelong learning. The power of public education also lies in its existence throughout the country. It is therefore important to provide general support for peoples' education. We in politics should be careful to steer peoples' education too closely towards what we see as most important for the moment. With that, Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that I naturally support all the reservations supported by the Center Party, but for time-winning people choose to opt for reservation 8 only.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-227	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for additional cases to reservations 1 and 4. As the previous speaker said, it is barely a week since the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang ended – a record OS with Swedish standards measured by fantastic achievements, both sporting and personal. Paralympics 2018 will open on 9 March. It will be 270 new TV hours with fantastic achievements and hopefully a medal rain over Sweden even then. Then 19 Swedish athletes will fight for the coveted medals. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden, we have also set our sights for 2021, as I hope we can welcome what is the world's largest outdoor sports competition, Special Olympics, and the many thousands of athletes, coaches and relatives who come to participate in it to Åre Östersund. The Parasport in Sweden, Mr President, is today very successful – at the elite level and in international comparison but also within Sweden's borders. As in other sports, there has also been an increasing interest in broad-ranging activities in Sweden. This has meant that many people with disabilities have become part of a social community that they would otherwise have missed out on. Their confidence and mental health have been strengthened, and public health has been strengthened. Success for elite athletes is important. Perhaps the most important thing for people with disabilities is to be able to watch the 270 hours of television in front of us and get role models, people to look up to, who can drive them to a new life themselves. I therefore believe that special elite initiatives in the parasports sector should be welcomed and encouraged by the others. What if an elite parasporter had had the same conditions as his partner at the Olympic level who competes in the so-called regular Olympics? Then we could have seen a significantly larger team in Pyeongchang than 19 people. We could also have seen much more medals. The sports movement, Mr President, must become better at including people with disabilities. Sport has, as I said, about 2 billion in state aid, substantial support from the local government sector and support from other parts of society. In the target formulations, we also mention people with disabilities in particular. Nevertheless, the sport of these people is greatly neglected. We need to change this, and that is why we need both a follow-up of national sports subsidies and a gentle governance of the same. In fact, as far as Special Olympics and people with intellectual disabilities and intellectual disabilities are concerned, that group is even more neglected. It's hardly visible at all. It is possible that the concept of Special Olympics is new even to someone in this room. By 2021 it will hopefully be very well known. We know that this investment is in sports at large; we know that it is also a major public health effort. It's a huge movement all over the world. We in Sweden really need to take the step forward. Here we have a long way to go for the associations and facilities that can support and run sport for these people. I have examples of people in my county of Halland who need to go to Kristianstad three times a week because their club is there. None of the Halland clubs want or have the opportunity to receive these people – and these are people who participate at international level. It should not be more expensive or more complicated for a person with a disability to exercise their sport than it is for others. For this to be possible, the needs of people with disabilities must also be met, including in terms of access to facilities and distribution of training and competition times, but also to push on associations in everyday life to make places and knowledge available. There is a need for training, will and funding, possibilities for adapted equipment – it was Per Lodenius inside – and encouragement to far more clubs to arrange training but also to attract trainers who want to work with these issues. Mr President, I would like to It is, in my view, one of the more important functions of sport today to include the whole of society. Sport is historically very good at including many different groups, but we still have people who are sidelined here. With that, Mr President, I would like, as I said, to endorse reservations 1 and 4 on the part of the Liberals. Otherwise, I support the report.
i-82wg5E17UMzKVAy48a81Cm	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to endorse reservations 10 and 13. We know that sport and the sports movement play a major role in society. There are a large number of practitioners, volunteers and other committed people in Sweden. There is also widespread interest in sport as entertainment. We have just had a winter Olympics in Pyeongchang with really good results for Sweden: 14 medals – seven gold, six silver and a bronze. We are happy and happy to speak in our form: We did well, didn't we? Soon Paralympics will come too, as we have heard here. It will also be interesting to follow. I am a sports nerd myself and see football as art among other things. Maybe not everyone here agrees; I don't know. There's both good and bad art, isn't there? The social value of sport includes positive effects on health, a reduction in juvenile delinquency, extensive voluntary work and regional development and rehabilitation. Mr President, I would like to There are many examples of unaccompanied children and young people entering society through sport. The Smålander magazine tells about an activity in Ljungby. There the League of Solitaires realized that sport could be a way into society and also make everyday life bearable, so they arranged a football tournament in Sunnerbohallen. Everyone loves football," says Amir Akbari and Amin Verhadi. We have many who play football in different clubs but also people who just think it's fun. Everyone came here this morning, so we split up into lag, they tell us and continue: Many lonecomers love football but can't play in indoor cups because they don't have a residence permit. That's why we arranged this tournament so everyone could have fun. In front of rather well-stocked stands in Sunnerbohallen many games of high quality were played. In recent years, a large number of unaccompanied refugee children and young people have come to Sweden. Sport is universal, and many of the new arrivals have sports backgrounds from their home country and are good at their sport. A place in the local sports team is therefore for many a way into society. In the association you get social contacts, learn to understand cultural patterns, practice languages and develop your identity. We believe from the alliance parties that the government should therefore initiate an analysis of this work and come back with proposals on how society as a whole can further support associations working with integration. Mr President, I would like to I was part of the Culture Committee's monitoring and evaluation group, which submitted a report last April under the name Statens sport policy objectives – a follow-up focusing on children and young people. It is therefore primarily about the children's perspective. In the Group's view, contributions to sport need to be designed in such a way as to ensure that only children's and young people's sports conducted from the perspective of children's rights are funded. That makes sense, doesn't it? The minister in question promised during an interpellation debate to monitor this in the future. We promise by the Alliance to monitor how the minister is following it up. Mr President, I would like to With the stubbornness of a fool, I would like to raise a subject which I have already raised a few times here, namely leisure money. Saila Quicklund mentioned it. The leisure allowance amounted to SEK 3 000 for children in classes 4 to 9 with weak family finances – they had had income support, or social assistance as it was called r, for six months of the last twelve months. They were given extracurricular money to be able to participate in an activity: sports, cultural school or the like. Why is the government taking this away? Leisure money existed during the alliance period. It was used by a number of municipalities. Leisure money came to children living in socio-economic difficulties. I don't understand how the government can be so heartless and remove such an important thing as leisure money. I think there are a number of people on the government side who agree with me. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to say a few words about education and the important role of folk high schools and study associations. For time to win spirit, I will content myself only to mention a little about how important folk high school is to young people. You talk about a second chance. I think it's a nice expression. You can get a second chance. Once you've lost the spirit and interest in the school, you can get into folk high school and get a fresh start. It could mean a lot. I have a personal experience in my educational journey, where I eventually became a teacher. The important role of study associations and folk high schools is underlined by Christian Democrats with a really strong underscore.
i-BdkXBjHWknjWcfNDGVqzMc	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson, Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström, Minister Anna Ekström and Minister Heléne Fritzon. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-257	Madam President, I would like Sweden is one of the world's most cyclically sensitive countries. In a boom, it is therefore particularly important that we build up a buffer until the economic cycle turns downwards again. If there is a new deeper crisis, it is important that we have shelters to face it with. Now we have a strong economy, but we have a weak government. Not since the 1970s has a Swedish finance minister saved so little in the boom. Instead, fiscal policy is expansive, and the government is on with large increases in expenditure. This expenditure will also remain in place when the economy turns around. My question to the Minister for Finance is: Why does the Minister save less than the predecessors Kjell-Kjell-Olof Feldt, Anders Borg and Bosse Ringholm did in a boom?
i-ead9d8c281795c87-259	Madam President, I would like I save considerably more than Elisabeth Svantesson and Anders Borg did when they were in government. When the Moderates rule the Ministry of Finance, we know how it ends: We start with large, unfunded tax cuts and end the term of office with huge deficits. Three times out of three possible, Moderates have left the Ministry of Finance with huge deficits. This also applies to Elisabeth Svantesson during her time in the government – they left behind a deficit that was the biggest since the budget adjustment. This is not just because there was a recession and a financial crisis at the beginning of the eight years. Even in the upward economic cycle, the Moderates chose to lower taxes most for those who earn the most and to debt the entire Swedish people. The part of savings cleared for the economy – structural savings – was far from the surplus target when Elisabeth Svantesson was in charge. We, however, make sure to save in the barns.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-261	Madam President, I would like It is extremely interesting that the Riksdag cannot get an answer to the question why the Minister of Finance saves much less in prosperity than previous Finance Ministers did. Today we are not building the shelters we have made before. Let me just tell the Swedish Parliament and the Swedish people the following: Yes, we have had a tough recession. In 2015, we had surpluses in central government finances, and this was due to the Alliance's budget – which was decided by the whole Parliament.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-263	Madam President, I would like However, I note that the Alliance's budget was not as restrictive as the draft budget I had submitted to Parliament. However, we know that, like my predecessors, I have had to clean up after major moderate budget deficits. During this term of office, however, we have paid 10 percentage points of public debt, and I can see that we now have the lowest public debt since the 1970s. It's the lowest since 1977. That is how it works when social democrats sit in government positions and take responsibility for public finances.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-266	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Magdalena Andersson my question. We have an alarming situation in health care. Sweden now has Europe's longest healthcare queues. Every fourth patient is forced to wait longer than the 90 days of the health guarantee to receive their treatment. These include those with serious cancers. Every year, between 450 and 500 patients with cervical cancer are diagnosed, but only 12% of these patients receive treatment within the maximum time limit. In fact, waiting times are the longest since the care queues were measured. The Social Democrats went to elections to shorten the care queues, but the development has instead become quite the opposite. Once again, we promise to overcome the queues, but not until after 2022. The aim is to make human resources investments by training more people, employing more people and ensuring that the working environment is improved. We think this is a good thing, but it takes time. What does the government do for the patients in line today?
i-ead9d8c281795c87-269	Madam President, I would like One thing is very clear: we will never shorten the queues with the large and extensive tax cuts that not only the alliance parties but also the Swedish Democrats are proposing in the Swedish parliament. That would be a starting point for the general welfare and health care we need to expand in the coming years. During the next four years, Sweden will not need major tax cuts, but Sweden will need major investments in health care, school and care for the elderly. That is exactly what the government is proposing. This year we have made an historic increase in the funding for health care, SEK 5.5 billion, to ensure good health care throughout the country. However, we had another proposal, which was stopped by the Swedish Democrats and the alliance parties, namely to make it less fiscally beneficial for doctors to resign from the county councils and instead work as hired rent doctors. It would improve care if you had a permanent doctor. Why were the Swedish Democrats opposed to this tax change?
i-ead9d8c281795c87-271	Madam President, I would like Now we are faced with a new choice. Why has nothing happened in practice since the last election? What is it that says that the voters can trust your promise this time, the Minister for Finance?
i-ead9d8c281795c87-272	Madam President, I would like I did not receive an answer from the Swedish Democrats. It is clear: the Swedish Democrats, together with the alliance parties, stopped this summer the opportunity we could have to make it easier for county councils to have permanent employees. It's very sad that we couldn't get that chance. This would have made things easier for county councils not least in sparsely populated areas, where renters have far too often not only at health centres but also at emergency hospitals. The government is prepared to continue investing in health care. It is an incredibly important area, and we Social Democrats want to see 14 000 more health workers in the next parliamentary term.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-275	Madam President, I would like As a left-wing party, I am proud that we have agreed with the government to put forward an offensive policy on the issue of profit and that all the resources to go to our welfare actually go to welfare and not to venture capital companies. However, I was recently informed that Anna Ekström, Minister of High School, has been on a government trip where she brought one of these school capitalists, Peje Emilsson, who owns the Knowledge School. I would like to ask you, Minister of High School Anna Ekström: how is it that one day we agree with you that all the resources should go where they are intended, that is to say to the children and staff, and that the other day you are on a government trip together with Peje Emilsson – who is one of the worst school capitalists we have in this country?
i-ead9d8c281795c87-277	Madam President, I would like We're in complete agreement. The resources that go to Swedish schools should go to teaching, student health, well-equipped school libraries, teachers and principals. They should not go to an unlimited right to make a profit. The Swedish system of a market-driven school has major disadvantages, and I am the first to talk about these disadvantages and do mine in order for us to have a school that steers towards knowledge and education and not towards profit. The question Daniel Riazat is asking is about two trips to India that I have made. On one trip, when I attended a very large fair, about a hundred Swedish company representatives attended. I understand that one of them was Peje Emilsson, as Daniel Riazat mentions. I can only say that it is Business Sweden that decides who should follow on trips that go abroad.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-279	Madam President, I would like I would say that this is not really an answer, given that we know how Peje Emilsson and many of these school capitalists want to influence politics. Peje Emilsson also has a stated goal of expanding its operations to other countries. When Business Sweden brings a person like Peje Emilsson, it is known as a government that one could somehow indicate that these school capitalists are involved in representing Sweden.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-281	Madam President, I would like I can only say that it is Business Sweden that decides who should follow this type of travel. This is an old order and order that has worked very well. Serviceex port is very important for Sweden's development. I have not in any context propagated for the Swedish system, where it can be controlled through a school market that resources that should go to teaching can instead go to unlimited profit, and I will not propagate for it either. It has not happened and will not happen.
i-Sn4C8b8zAW86R8b3KXv58S	Madam President, I would like Sweden and Kuwait initiated Resolution 2401 on 30 days of humanitarian ceasefire in Syria. It was voted unanimously in the Security Council six days ago. It sounded good then, but it has not led to any change on the ground for the 5.6 million people in urgent need of help. Nothing at all was the result, as the Secretary of State said in the Security Council yesterday. If anyone had doubts, then it was clear that Russia's support for the resolution is totally devoid of credibility. They are pursuing their own interests in Syria, as they do in our region, and the Security Council is failing to bring about peace and security. Sweden's voice could have been clearer yesterday, and I hope it is today. Is it not high time for the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Swedish Government to make it clear to Russia that Sweden is not unaligned for the sake of Russia and to break the myth that everything will be fine if we do not tease Russia?
i-ead9d8c281795c87-286	Madam President, I would like Now you go too far, Kerstin Lundgren! If any country has pushed this resolution forward together with Kuwait, it is Sweden. To say that we would go along with Russia's affairs is, in fact, rude, and I hope you will take it back. Anyone who has followed the process knows that we have fought very hard to bring about this resolution. It is Russia that is currently ensuring that, as the UN has said, there is no progress and there is no compliance or implementation. We will continue to put pressure on Russia. We will also continue to put pressure on the Asad regime and on everyone else who is currently conducting a proxy war in Syria. It is for the civilian population in Syria that we have done this. It is for the civilian population that we have fought so hard for a resolution. We are not yet giving up – we owe it to all those who suffer there.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-289	Madam President, I would like I hope that the President heard that I asked if it was not time to give a clear answer that we are not non-aligned, with regard to Russia. I did not hear the answer to that question, but I heard something else. Madam President, I would like On 1 January Sweden took over the coordination responsibility for Nordic-Baltic foreign and security policy cooperation NB8. The main focus of the NB8 format is regional, foreign and security policy and topical issues in the neighbourhood. Is it the Minister's ambition to tell the states to leave NATO, not least in view of the experience with Syria and what is happening there?
i-ead9d8c281795c87-291	Madam President, I would like Now Kerstin Lundgren mixes the cards together – now it's all about something else. But as it is often in foreign policy, everything ends with NATO. There is only one answer from that side, and that is NATO. NATO is the answer to everything. Is NATO also the answer to the Syria crisis, or what is the intention of this debate? I would like this whole Parliament to say: Now we are behind Sweden in running a resolution that could put an end to the suffering in Syria, albeit temporarily but as a first step. That would have been better.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-294	Madam President, I would like I also have a question for the Foreign Minister. Recently, Mrs Wallström has made a number of statements on NATO, which the Liberals believe has damaged Swedish security. One was NATO's defence guarantees, but there the Foreign Minister has now backed up, and we can put this issue aside. But the second statement is just as serious. The Foreign Minister said in the foreign policy debate a few weeks ago that Sweden would not be safer if we joined NATO. This statement scares me of the dark. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs mean that Sweden would be more vulnerable if we were in a defence alliance? And does she think that NATO cannot guarantee the security of its members? How do we explain this to our Baltic friends? Does she mean that Estonia, which has just celebrated 100 years, cannot be safe with NATO? I would like to ask the Foreign Minister to explain what she meant.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-298	Madam President, I would like Our security policy rests on three legs: continued military alliance freedom, investing in our own defence – which we are doing – and cooperation. This has helped us for a long time and will continue to do so. Does anyone think that we could manage any crisis in our neighbourhood without cooperation? We have chosen not to be a member of NATO but to cooperate with NATO. This gives us greater flexibility. It gives us the opportunity to implement bilateral cooperation. It also creates security, together with Finland in particular. We will continue with this. Changing our security policy doctrine now could put us in a more precarious position. We don't.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-301	Madam President, I would like Sweden has a strong interest in the existence of NATO and in NATO being strong. Without NATO, for example, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania would risk becoming obedient states to Putin. I take it the Secretary of State is not prepared to back off what she said. So we do not agree that NATO contributes with security. Then we do not agree that Sweden would be safer in NATO, but the Minister for Foreign Affairs maintains that Sweden would be less secure in NATO.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-303	Madam President, I would like Changing our security policy doctrine right now – changing our position, with all three elements of our security policy – would make us less secure. It risks making us less safe, and that is why we should not do this. We shall continue to maintain our cooperation, our military freedom of alliance and the fact that we are also upgrading our own defence. We stand by this. The Swedish people can rely on this, unlike the opposition, which has one answer: NATO membership.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-306	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Finance has been out with the Prime Minister and visited the care here this week. In the run-up to the last elections, the Social Democrats promised that no patient with cancer would have to wait more than four weeks for treatment. Now you promise the same thing again. However, what has happened during this parliamentary term is that the queues for care are growing in areas by area. In the case of cervical cancer, only 11 percent of the victims receive treatment within the time that the cancer strategy says it is necessary to start treatment within. In the case of breast cancer, which is one of the most common cancers, less than half of the patients are treated on time. My question to Minister Andersson is: Why should you trust that the Social Democrats can deliver what they have succeeded to date to worsen during the time they have been responsible for health care?
i-ead9d8c281795c87-309	Madam President, I would like What we are looking at in the coming years is a demographic shift, where we will be more older and more children. This means that we will have to use the next term of office to expand not only preschool and school, but also health care and care for the elderly. We Social Democrats and the government have been very clear in our priority. For us, this is more important than major tax cuts. I note that in the last budget, the alliance parties and the Swedish democrats came forward with very substantial tax cuts, while we had a historic investment in health care. I put the same question to Emma Henriksson as to the Swedish Democrats. Even last spring we wanted to make a change in the tax system that means that rent doctors would no longer earn 100,000 by being a rent doctor rather than being employed in the county council. In what way does it improve the health care system that it drives doctors to be a rent doctor instead of being employed in county councils? Why did the Christian Democrats vote against this?
i-ead9d8c281795c87-312	Madam President, I would like I would like to remind the Government that Question Time is about the ministers answering Members' questions. I asked you a question about why you promised four years ago that you would shorten the queues but have made sure the queues have grown. In the area by area you have to wait. I was talking about cancer, and we can take the psychiatry, where children and young people now have to wait longer than the appointed time in all county councils, but the worst is in the Social Democratically ruled county councils. Why should someone trust you to deliver when you deteriorate?
i-ead9d8c281795c87-315	Madam President, I would like It is correct that health care needs have increased during this term of office, and they will continue to increase. That is why we want to invest more in health care. We are making a historic investment this year with 5.5 billion to go to health care, and we want to see 14 000 more employees in health care during the next term of office. That is a clear priority. It is clear that it would have been even better if we did not have a tax system that drives doctors employed by county councils to instead be hire doctors.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-319	Madam President, I would like I would like to continue with the previous question and also have a question for the Minister for Finance. Unlike the previous questioner, I know that there are more and more of us. That's a good thing. We have a good welfare, and thanks to the good welfare we are getting older. As the population grows older, more care and medical care are needed. We want our grandparents and also mothers and fathers to have it safe and good in older days and that the health care system should work throughout the country. In addition, more children are born. That is also very positive. But the children need to have preschool, school and recreation centres, and all this, of course, costs money. SKL has estimated that 10 billion more is needed. Does the Minister for Finance share SKL's assessment?
i-ead9d8c281795c87-323	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is also my view that we will need to devote considerable resources to preschool, school, health care and care for the elderly, but also to the police during the next term of office. For us, this is an extremely important priority, and it takes precedence over major tax cuts. I would even say that it is not realistic to go forward with the massive tax cuts of 30 billion that the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats are already doing this year. That's not how we can hire more cops, more nurses and more teachers. We have said that we will need to increase state subsidies to municipalities and county councils by at least 20 billion during the next term of office, just to maintain the same quality as today, so we obviously need to invest additional resources in addition and also ensure that staff are trained that can take these jobs when they grow up.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-326	Madam President, I would like We hear in the debate on welfare that you can manage without additional resources. There are even some who claim that one can streamline care so that it becomes cheaper, that one would save money. I am a stranger to it because I know that the population, as I said earlier, is growing.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-328	Madam President, I would like Of course, you can always improve the working methods of these activities and use taxpayers' money more effectively. However, the fact that this could happen to such an extent that we do not have to provide substantial resources, I consider it completely unrealistic. It is about as unrealistic as when the Moderates stand and say that there will be more tax revenue when you lower the tax. No, that's not how it works.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-330	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström. The implementation of the peace agreement signed by the Farcgerilla and the Colombian Government in November 2016 is in its second year. But after the war, the country is now being overshadowed by a growing wave of violence against human rights defenders, among others. The growing wave of violence is a consequence of a new dynamic of conflict in which other illegal armed groups such as the ELN guerrillas and paramilitary groups take control of those parts of the country that were previously controlled by the Farcgerilla and where the state is not present. My question is: Does Sweden have a dialogue with Colombia on this situation?
i-ead9d8c281795c87-333	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question, Marco Venega! It is a perfectly correct description that you make of the great challenges that await now that you have finally got a peace agreement with the Farcgerilla. It is now that the country will be tested, it is now that solidarity from other countries will be tested, it is now that the UN system is being tested, and it is now being tested whether we can really live up to the promises to offer jobs and training to all those who come back from the jungle and actually leave Farc and life as soldiers. We definitely have a role for many years through our embassy and our skilled diplomatic staff but also through the UN. This issue continues to be on the agenda of the UN. There we will contribute from finding landmines to educating people and ensuring that they work for democracy, human rights and the rule of law in Colombia.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-335	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. Sweden has supported the peace negotiations between the Colombian Government and the ELN guerrillas, which took place in February 2017 in Quito, Ecuador, but was suspended in January 2018. A negotiated solution to the conflict with this group is a prerequisite for sustainable peace in the country. My question is: will Sweden mediate so that the current government during Santo resumes the peace negotiations with ELN?
i-ead9d8c281795c87-338	Madam President, I would like What the entire international community wants is a peace agreement with the ELN guerrillas. It has proved difficult, and one must keep trying. I think the President really has that will and that focus on the talks. Of course, if we can play any part in this, we will try to do so. The most important thing now, I believe, is to get the country to fully implement the peace agreement. It will create a completely different opportunity for economic and other development in the country.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-340	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Minister for Migration. The government has said on a number of occasions that anyone who has no grounds for protection and whose asylum application is refused will return to his country of origin. Despite this, the government has recently announced legislation whereby persons who have been refused their asylum application should nevertheless be granted a residence permit. According to the government's own figures, some 9 000 people are to be assessed for asylum as if they had been minors even though they are adults. The proposal has been consulted and has received serious criticism. The Finnish Immigration Service points out that legal certainty may be affected. The Administrative Court of Malmö describes this as a disguised amnesty. The police say that control over who resides in the country will deteriorate. In addition, there will be an annual cost of SEK 1 billion. I wonder how the Minister for Migration will change his proposal following the serious criticism that has emerged.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-344	Madam President, I would like This is a proposal that is a temporary regulation for a limited group, unaccompanied minors who came before 24 November 2015, who have waited a very long time. I am absolutely convinced that Johan Forssell also actually sees that a measure is needed to deal with the problem of the fact that it has taken a very long time to get answers to asylum applications. Young people have had to wait a very long time. The government has shown its momentum by proposing temporary regulation for this group. The proposal has been out for a referral, and we are currently working on the referrals that have been received and intend to return. I look forward to our being able to support the proposal in the Swedish Parliament, because I understand that there are also bourgeois parties who could support it.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-347	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. The government says whoever has no grounds for protection will return home. But as always, it's not about what you say in politics, it's about what you actually do. I cannot understand how the government's speech on order means that 9 000 people who have been rejected will suddenly still be granted a residence permit. Nor can I see any fairness in the fact that a person who has actually returned home is excluded while a person who, contrary to current legislation, has remained in the country is to be considered for the new legislation. This proposal should be withdrawn.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-350	Madam President, I would like I am not entirely convinced that if I explain this to Johan Forssell once again, he will accept my answer. Order and order are valid in asylum policy. The person for whom protection is sought shall stay; the person who does not have it shall return. There's no doubt about it. The bill referred to by Forssell is a temporary measure for a limited group. We are now taking responsibility for the young people who have waited a very long time because Sweden took a huge turn in 2015; the largest in Europe.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-354	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Deputy Minister of Justice Heléne Fritzon. On Monday, the Prime Minister rejected that the Social Democrats are working on a proposal for a national begging ban. Instead, the Prime Minister of my municipality of Eskilstuna, where the Social Democrats have put through a proposal for a permit requirement for begging. There is, in itself, nothing wrong with that proposal from a local perspective. In fact, the proposal is originally from the Swedish Democrats, but when we tabled the proposal it was called fascism by the Social Democratic municipal councillor who is now personally behind the same proposal. However, national responsibility cannot rest on the fact that individual municipalities may assume their own responsibilities. Then the begging only moves around the country, just as it has moved around Europe between countries whose begging laws differ. If, after good arguments, a Socialist councillor can change his mind during a term of office, is it really impossible for the government to understand, after equally good arguments, that national responsibility requires a national begging ban?
i-ead9d8c281795c87-359	Madam President, I would like This is the responsibility of Minister Regnér, but since she is not here and I have the general questions, it is I who answer the question. Tiggery is something we cannot, of course, accept in the Swedish street image, and no man should have to beg for his livelihood. Responsibility for the people who are currently begging on the streets of Sweden lies with the regimes of their home countries. Often they are other EU Member States. That is why the government has worked towards these countries to ensure that they take responsibility for their citizens. But, of course, we are also prepared to look at other measures to bring about a change in the situation of these people. What is being done in Eskilstuna is an opportunity, but the most important thing is that people who give to beggars know that they risk contributing to human trafficking.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-362	Madam President, I would like The issue of a begging ban has been driven by the Swedish Democrats since the last parliamentary term. Since then, a great deal has happened. The government's own coordinator for vulnerable EU citizens has changed their mind and advocates a begging ban. Countries around us advocate bans. The Moderates have adapted in the direction of the wind and advocate a ban. As a matter of fact, we agree with the government that the begging will end. But what is the point of studying ineffective measures? The Swedish Democrats have put the best proposal on the table.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-364	Madam President, I would like I am not sure that this is the best proposal, because it is not obvious that the police should spend a lot of resources on preventing people from sitting outside ICA and asking for help when we have a lack of police resources. However, we need to see what opportunities exist in the municipalities. Most importantly, however, anyone who gives to beggars should know that they are at risk of contributing to human trafficking. We have seen terrible examples of people being exploited through begging. The government has therefore also made this type of trafficking illegal and tightened the penalties.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-367	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Foreign Minister Wallström. According to Open Doors, every 12 Christians in the world are persecuted. It is about 250 million vulnerable Christians worldwide. Worst of all is the situation in the Middle East where Christians have been subjected to genocide by ISIS and many Islamic states have introduced different types of anti-religion laws. The Christian Assyrians in Iraq have fallen from 1.4 million in 2003 to about 200 000 today. It is a genocide and an ethnic cleansing that the government still denies. The UN has done almost nothing to counteract the vulnerability of Christians in the world. You only talk about Islamophobia and anti-Semitism, never about christophobia. As a member of the Security Council, the Swedish Government is co-responsible. Now that Isis is being repressed, something must also be done to support Christians in the world. That is why, Madam President, I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: how is Sweden working in the Security Council to improve the situation of persecuted Christians in the Middle East?
i-ead9d8c281795c87-371	Madam President, I would like It is true that the situation of Christians in the Middle East has worsened in recent years. I agree with Robert Hannah on the description and the challenge. The Swedish Government consistently points out the need to maintain and strengthen respect for human rights. We also do so in the Security Council insofar as it is discussed there. We have an ongoing dialogue with various governments and civil society in the Middle East on the importance of having inclusive political dialogues. This is particularly important at the moment in Iraq. Even in contact with different religions, we can gain a better understanding of their situation and receive suggestions for action. We need accountability and prosecution of the crimes committed, and we need to ensure that there are inclusive political processes in the countries affected by a variety of actions against Christians.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-374	Madam President, I would like If we look at the measures taken by the international community, it is nevertheless a failure and an inadequate one. The Christians in Iraq are not on their way back to their villages, but are on their way to Europe, the United States and other parts of the world. Why? Well, they cannot live in a country where they are second-class citizens and where they are under constant threat of being beheaded. That's why they support Asad and the like. Direct aid is needed for Christians in the Middle East. It's giving the United States right now. How does the Minister feel about that?
i-ead9d8c281795c87-376	Madam President, I would like It is important that the follow-up to the fight against Daish ensures that there is a situation in Iraq that creates an inclusive political dialogue and process. Decision-making on investigations into crimes committed against Christians and, in many cases, against mankind must also be developed. Therefore, one must take this step by step and continue working with governments and working bilaterally. Of course, the UN must also do everything possible to ensure that this is covered.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-378	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Heléne Fritzon. It is in short: why does the government not set up an inquiry into the transferee activities to improve the system of good men? Everyone, i.e. the majority in the Riksdag, the Swedish Municipalities and County Council and the government's own reviewer The Swedish National Audit Office agrees that the activities must be investigated, reformed and improved. Good men need skills to be developed, because they have a difficult and comprehensive mission. They work on a voluntary basis, but the government doesn't do anything to make it easier for them to get a reasonable business. Why?
i-ead9d8c281795c87-381	Madam President, I would like I agree in every way with the questioner's view that the thousands of good men throughout the country who make an amazing contribution to their fellowmen every day are extremely valuable. Legislation was tightened up as late as 2015. After that, the county administrative boards have submitted their views on the desired additional supervision. We also have the National Audit Office's report, and there is work going on in the Government Office to answer this report, where there are a number of urgent questions about increasing quality and ensuring the exercise that good men do throughout the country.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-383	Madam President, I would like An investigation would have been set up much earlier and would not have waited for the Swedish National Audit Office's report. The views of the investigation could have been used, for this is urgent. We don't get any good men today-- they don't want to take on the mission because it's too difficult and complicated. It is clear that we need a new leadership here in Sweden, because the government is failing to take care of the most vulnerable and weak in our society. Why?
i-ead9d8c281795c87-385	Madam President, I would like We do not agree that a new government is needed, but we agree on the importance of continuing the development work with good men. I also believe that there is a knowledge in the Swedish Parliament that we took extensive responsibility after 2015, when many of the unaccompanied persons needed the support of a deputy. Of course, this has increased the pressure throughout the organization. Development work is under way, and the government intends to return shortly.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-388	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Anna Ekström. The Swedish National Agency for Education recently produced a report showing that free schools systematically blow up students' grades. Free school students get higher grades in high school but do less at the university. As a citizen I get incredibly worried, as knowledge is A and O for Sweden as a knowledge nation but also for students as individuals. As a member of Parliament from Stockholm County, I am also worried about the fact that there are many free schools here. It is clear that both students and parents must be able to be sure that the grades reflect the level of knowledge. The school system will help students reach their full potential, not create inequality and segregation. I therefore wonder: what does the government intend to do to curb the inflation of grades among schools that arbitrarily issue high grades?
i-ead9d8c281795c87-392	Madam President, I would like Grades are important. They are important for young people to be able to get the education they are struggling to get into, but they are also important for parents to be able to feel a lot of security toward school. Grading should of course be given according to the students' knowledge and competence, not according to which school they go to. I have taken an interest in the current study from the Swedish National Agency for Education. It is a well-made register study where a proper quantitative review of this has been carried out, but it does not answer the question. Why? .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. To get on with this issue, I have called the National Association of Free Schools. I have also invited SKL, the Swedish National Agency for Education and the Swedish School Inspectorate to discuss what is behind the figures and how we can proceed to ensure that grades are based on knowledge and not which school the student goes to.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-394	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the wise answer! I have a supplementary question. This is something that has been discussed over a period of time, or at least it has been suspected that this is the way it is. It was talked about even when I was in high school, which is starting to be a couple of years ago, although I don't want it to be that way. My question is: how can we do so that the National Board of Education is sharpened so that we get rid of what is happening in practice? So how do we move from words to action on this issue?
i-ead9d8c281795c87-397	Madam President, I would like In the long term, we should get to grips with what can be the root of evil, namely that we have a governance of the Swedish school where schools compete for students. We do not find this control in other countries – we do not see any queue of countries that want to follow the Swedish school experiment. But as long as we have it, we have to deal with the present, and in the short term it is important to ensure that ratings are set more equally and legally secure.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-399	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Finance. Stefan Lövven's and Magdalena Andersson's government is currently administering a national health crisis. The reality is devastating: the care queues have doubled in three years, the queues for BUP have tripled, no county council lives up to the care guarantee for prostate cancer – not a single one – and only one in ten with cervical cancer is treated in promised time. Prior to the 2014 elections, Stefan Löfven promised that all cancer patients would receive treatment within four weeks, but since then the care queues have actually doubled. Politics is a complete failure. More are forced to wait, and hopelessness is growing. My question is: why would anyone dare to believe that this particular government can correct the health crisis it itself has created?
i-ead9d8c281795c87-403	Madam President, I would like The situation is worrying in far too many county councils, but I know one thing: the answer to getting faster treatment can never be major tax cuts. Tax cuts do not hire nurses, doctors or nurses. There are three things that are needed: more people are needed to train in these professions, and then we need more training places, which the government has set up. We must ensure that there are good working conditions in health care, and there the government has come with special money. We need more resources, and the government has provided that. We will, if we have the chance, continue to provide additional resources. For us, this is more important than tax cuts. The Moderates, on the other hand, want to reduce the tax by 30 billion already this year and cut the county councils and health care by 1.5 billion SEK. It doesn't cut any lines.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-407	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister of High School Anna Ekström and concerns the national tests. The main purpose of the national tests is to support an equivalent and fair assessment and rating. They help to concretise subject plans and curricula, which in turn will lead to increased achievement of goals among our students. Although we in this House have agreed that national tests play an important role, the government has now decided to halve the number of tests in high school on the grounds that teachers have a very stressed working situation and that students experience them as stressful. But we can't eliminate everything that's difficult in life. I agree that national tests increase the workload of teachers, but why not look at how to simplify by, for example, external correction rather than removing half of the tests, which are an important tool for equivalence?
i-ead9d8c281795c87-411	Madam President, I would like The government has made quite significant changes to the national tests. We have decided, after the Parliament has approved our proposal, that the results of the national tests should be taken into account in particular when the grades are given. We have said that the national tests should be assessed by a teacher other than the one who taught. We have also said that the national exams should be assessed after the students have written them anonymously, i.e. the correcting teacher should not know which students have written the exams. In addition, we are now moving forward with a major digitisation of the national tests. All of this will lead to greater legal certainty. If the reduction in the number of national tests would lead to the fears mentioned by Annika Eclund becoming true, we will of course look at that too.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-415	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister of Migration Heléne Fritzon. The issue stems from a debate article by the leaders of the alliance parties, which I read the other day in the DN. At least there they finally put forward some practical proposals on how they want to co-operate after the elections. They said, among other things, that they want to return to a migration policy based on the agreement reached with the Social Democrats in autumn 2015, i.e. before the austerity which, thankfully, more parties have subsequently realised was necessary. I am curious to hear the views of the Social Democrats on this move and whether one can envisage returning to such a migration policy and whether one wants to do this together with the alliance parties. Or are you prepared to stick to a tight migration policy, and if so, would you consider looking at support for it in other parties?
i-ead9d8c281795c87-418	Madam President, I would like We in the government have made a number of valuable agreements during this term of office, including in the area of migration, but the government has also, with the support of the Parliament, decided on the necessary legislative provisions, all in order to follow the events we have in the outside world but also the developments among the Member States of Europe. The government's view is that we fully support the rules and legislation that we have today. The Government has also given a statement that the Temporary Act will apply until summer 2019. In general, I also welcome as broad agreements as possible in the area of migration. I think it's very good.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-422	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Finance. In Sweden alone, according to SVT's mission, tax evasion is estimated to cost SEK 43 billion each year. These are business giants and wealthy individuals who use more or less shady methods to avoid paying taxes in this country. It is people who consider themselves to be above our Swedish laws and rules, and who shoe themselves at the expense of others. SEK 43 billion is a lot of money. This is about the same as our military defence costs each year, or the entire judiciary – police, courts and prisons – or all child benefits in Sweden for almost four years. The tax evasion therefore involves large costs for Sweden and for ordinary people, and it must end.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-427	Madam President, I would like Mrs Naraghi raises a very important issue. The government has from day one when we entered the Government Office worked hard to overcome tax evasion and tax evasion. It's about big money. But it is also a question of all those companies that do the right thing not risk being out-competed by companies that cheat. That is why we have presented a ten-point programme to take a wide range of measures to reduce tax evasion. It's about working at an international level – global level. We are actively working within the OECD to establish rules to reduce tax evasion opportunities for multinational companies. We are working in the European Union, where we have a blacklist, among other things, as another way to make this more difficult and to be clear with which countries do not have the right tax regimes. We also work nationally in Sweden, where we have, among other things, increased the resources for the Swedish Tax Agency and introduced human resources in more industries, and it will now be monthly tasks at individual level.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-430	Madam President, I would like At a change of line during the foreign policy debate, the Foreign Minister claimed, among other things, that NATO membership would not make Sweden safer. That in itself is a remarkable and, in my opinion, wrong statement. The Foreign Minister also dared to question both NATO's intentions and the current status and also the foundation on which NATO is based, namely the obligation of Member States to assist another Member State in an attack. This is a most remarkable statement, and it also caused a great deal of reaction. We have been approaching NATO for many years in Sweden, and NATO is today a very important partner for us – this all the way regardless of how you view possible future membership. The fact that the Foreign Minister is questioning the very foundations of the defence alliance is therefore very serious. Mrs Wallström has tried to explain this in part afterwards. Nevertheless, I would like to ask: why did the Minister for Foreign Affairs speak as she did, and what does the Minister for Foreign Affairs really mean by his statement?
i-ead9d8c281795c87-434	Madam President, I would like In relation to NATO, Sweden, like Finland, has chosen a line of cooperation and not a line of membership. It is a collaboration that gives us the opportunity for political dialogue and for flexibility to develop the Swedish Armed Forces, both for the national defence and for the ability to participate in various international crisis management. Military freedom of alliance, strengthened military national capabilities and enhanced collaborations are based on a Swedish model that for a long time aims to minimize tensions but also tackle challenges. We will continue to hold on to it. What I am saying is that if we change our security policy doctrine, we also risk questioning our security. I mean it's unwise to do. Moreover, I have only noted the facts as to which are important in the NATO context and that NATO has a debate to discuss.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-439	Madam President, I would like The Swedish economy is much better than the train. The government has turned government deficits into surpluses, employment is record high and public debt is record low. Swedish railways need to be upgraded and expanded. The government has therefore increased funding for infrastructure by SEK 100 billion and is planning to build new main roads at the rate allowed by the economy. Madam President, I would like However, new main tracks are more than just rails. They create new labour market regions and can provide over 250 000 new housing according to the Swedish negotiations. At the moment, much of the debate revolves around loan financing new main lines to build the tracks faster and earlier get the benefits that the new tracks can bring. Can the Minister of Finance explain why the government would rather see funding through grants than loans, even though the Swedish economy is doing so well and better than the train and the public debt is so low?
i-ead9d8c281795c87-444	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. It does not matter in the state budget whether you borrow or if you fund over funds, because what governs the state budget is the level of public financial savings. For this level of public financial savings, it is absolutely insignificant how, for example, railway construction is financed. The balance in terms of how much money you want to spend on building new railways, how much you want to spend on health care, the police, defence and other things you will not get rid of by constructing new railway construction via loan financing, but you will have to do that in the coming years. Here there is now a discussion in which the opposition will also be invited to do exactly this balance, i.e. how much should be spent on building new main courses, for new main courses we need in Sweden.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-447	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Fritzon. Last Tuesday I listened to an interpellation debate between my party colleague Sofia Fölster and the Government. Fölster wondered why the government is closing the door to altruistic surrogate motherhood in Sweden, i.e. that a woman should be unable to help an involuntary childless woman to have a child. The Government agreed with Fölster that women have a right to their bodies and felt that the very fact that women have a right to their bodies is perhaps one of the most important reasons why the government does not go forward with the proposal on surrogate motherhood. The Government therefore considers that the woman is entitled to her body. At the same time, however, the Government believes that women in Sweden are too easily influenced to decide for themselves whether their body should be allowed to present another woman's child. I think this testifies to a guardianship that I thought we had left behind a long time ago. So my question is: is it Minister Fritzon or the individual woman who decides about the woman's body?
i-ead9d8c281795c87-452	Madam President, I would like The background to this is an investigation mission on different paths to parenthood given by the then bourgeois government. The study contains a variety of suggestions and opportunities for childless couples. The investigation suggests that Sweden should not allow it in Swedish healthcare with surrogate motherhood. There are a number of arguments presented for this. The government has carefully assessed the issue and reached the same conclusion as the investigation. As far as I understand, this also has strong support in Parliament. In this regard, there are many different difficult ethical decisions. It's about the one or the couple who wants a child. It is also about the child that comes into being. But it is also about the woman who is expected to bring a child to someone else. This is a very careful assessment that has landed in a 'no'.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-456	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Anna Ekström. The Swedish National Agency for Education's follow-up of the Alliance's upper secondary school shows that more of the students who start upper secondary school also finish it. The greatest improvement is found in vocational programmes. Since they have been drawn with great difficulty, it is very gratifying, and I think we share this view. Developments in the right direction should not overshadow the fact that three out of ten students are still not able to complete upper secondary school within the required time. We must do more here. One important step is to prepare those students who are going to high school for more to go through and complete high school. The Moderates and the Government's high school inquiry have therefore proposed, among other things, that the eligibility requirements for upper secondary school should be equal regardless of whether the programmes are aimed at higher education or vocational studies. Unfortunately, however, the government has withdrawn from the investigation's proposal. Why does the government not propose that there should be as high a requirement to be admitted to a higher education programme as a professional programme?
i-ead9d8c281795c87-461	Madam President, I would like The government has recently put two proposals on the Board table. One proposal means that vocational programmes should become university-preparing with an opportunity for students to opt out of the subjects leading to higher education qualifications. The second proposal significantly strengthens the support of students who attend upper secondary school with a right to mentor and with considerably more teaching in the introduction programmes. It should simply be a stronger responsibility for the student's entire schooling while a strong responsibility should rest on the student himself. The student should take a strong and with increasing age increasing responsibility for his or her own studies. It is our assessment that the proposals taken together will lead to a much more successful secondary school. The proposals that Michael Svensson specifically asks for are still being looked at in the Government Office. We intend to come back to this issue, which is a bit complicated.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-464	Madam President, I would like Like the other comrades in the committee, I would like to congratulate our Swedish Olympic medalists. During all the hours you sat and watched the Olympics just a few weeks ago it felt pretty nice to be a sports political spokesperson and be able to practice your profession just like that. It will continue a little further ahead, and I wish our paraathletes good luck in Paralympics, South Korea. I hope and believe that they too will take many fine Swedish medals. Madam President, I would like This is the last sporting policy debate this parliamentary term. What we promised the voters for the term of office we have done, as we have done with so many other things. We have made large increases in funding to the Swedish Sports Federation and to Swedish Outdoor Life, and we have had an increased dialogue about the challenges of sport and the conditions that exist. We Social Democrats keep our promises. Sport is part of the Swedish model, and it will be developed. It shall not be decommissioned. That is why we Social Democrats have developed a sports policy programme with the following orientations. Anyone who wants to join should be able to join. The latest thing that has contributed to this is the increase in child benefit. It is more constructive than before. Lifelong sports are good for health. We want to strengthen the conditions for sports throughout our lives. This is why there are proposals for cooperation with RF on the opportunities for older people to engage in sports in the autumn of their age. We want low fees and sports libraries. It is very much based on the belief we have that together with RF create the conditions, both locally and regionally, for low fees to become a member of an association. The sports libraries are an underdeveloped activity, run by enthusiasts who have developed the possibility to borrow sports equipment to try out different parts of the association movement. We believe it is important that it comes from below and not from above. It is created by a dull need. Integration is a matter of course. It's about working out in many neighborhoods to give people the opportunity to enter Swedish society. It turned out when the great migration flow came about how important association life and sport is to create a "we" feeling. We want to strengthen this on the basis of political dialogues with sports associations. We are talking about the development of outdoor life. There is a doubling of the investment in economic terms, but it is also about an opportunity to get out into the forest and nature via the conditions of the right of public access. We want to strengthen this opportunity. Gender equality and the fight against sexual harassment are extremely important. I know that the Swedish Sports Federation and Swedish Outdoor Life work hard to provide the conditions for creating a good climate in society and sports life. In terms of school, leisure and sport, we want to see increased cooperation with the school. It is already happening, and it is continuing to develop. It is part of our sports policy programme to strengthen this. Through association jobs there are huge opportunities to get a step into the Swedish labour market. Such jobs exist throughout Sweden Big sporting events – the idea of a Swedish Olympics in the future tickles a bit, doesn't it? And possibly it will be in Stockholm. Of course it tickles! Imagine seeing our Swedish Olympic medalists and future medalists meet foreign athletes and sportswomen on Swedish soil! Perhaps we can do this together with another Scandinavian country. That possibility exists today; we can work together across national borders. We are not saying no to it from the Social Democrats, but we are open to dialogue on this development. Of course, we say no to doping and want to see this work developed. This also applies to match fixing and the like. The most important thing is that we have a political dialogue with the sports movement locally, regionally and at state level. Having said that, I would like to urge the rejection of all the reservations contained in the report. Madam President, I would like There is something of a common thread in the opposition's reservations that I was a little worried about. Would you like to move away from the current model we have with arm's length away from sport and society? We accept the challenges that exist in dialogue and not through political governance. I am convinced that the model we have today is the best model for the future of the sports movement. Historically, RF received funding through the return from Svenska Spel, but in order to obtain a more secure and long-term grant, they wanted it through the Government's budget. But they didn't want political governance. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the opposition a question. Is it part of your political orientation to increase political governance in this way and change the current direction of independent activity? I think it is important for the electoral movement to make this clear. We Social Democrats will not change today's order. We want to develop the Swedish model, not phase it out.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-483	Madam President, I would like It is always inspiring to hear Peter Johnsson speak. You, like me, are passionate about sports and what it means to people. I've looked a lot at the Winter Olympics and lived into it. It's enriching, it's entertainment, it's really exciting and when it goes really well we're so happy and happy to talk in our form: We're the ones who have won. My question to Peter Johnsson from the Social Democrats is about leisure money. It was introduced by the Alliance and was at SEK 3 000 that a child could get as help if one could not afford to pay for example membership fee in the sports association or tuition fee in the cultural school. The government has removed the extracurricular money, which I find surprising and boring. We from the Christian Democrats intend to work for it to be introduced again under an alliance government, which we hope for in September. The rules for leisure allowances are that you should attend grades 4 to 9 and have lived in an economically vulnerable family context with social assistance, or subsistence support, for six months in the last 12 months. Why do you say no to this worthy support for those children?
i-ead9d8c281795c87-487	Madam President, I would like This is not the first time Roland Utbolt and I have discussed the leisure money here. It is not said that we do not want to strengthen and give all children the opportunity to participate in cultural and leisure life. Of course we do, and we make a lot of efforts. Not only have we made the big effort that is aimed at the Swedish Sports Federation to create the conditions, but, as I said before, we also have the increased child benefit effort and several other measures. This is part of the general welfare society – a society where we do not point out who is poor and who is rich. Leisure money is a construction where you do just that. I know that you from the bourgeois side and specifically the Christian Democrats think that this kind of policy is important. Then you can give this as a gift or a contribution in a way so that you really make visible who needs a little more support. We do not like such a construction, but we want to give the opportunity to choose for ourselves, that the family can choose how to use their money. I believe that most families who have money invest in this so that the children and young people can feel a sense of pride and security and develop even in society. That is why we say 'no' to this kind of destiny precisely when it comes to leisure money, but we are investing much more than the previous government ever did in the sports movement and conditions for sport for everyone.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-492	Madam President, I would like I'd like to argue with that. I agree that an increase in child benefit is a good thing, and it is unlikely to be reduced under any future alliance government. But I have heard the argument before that it is a matter of general welfare and that everyone should have access to it. Now, listen carefully: everyone will get a share of this that makes it possible to pay fees to sports clubs and so on. Our point is that there are children who live in such financial vulnerability that their families cannot afford this. We may find it difficult to understand this and feel compassion, but there are children who live so poor – there is poverty in Sweden – that their families cannot afford to pay a membership fee to a sports club or tuition fee to the cultural school. When you talk about general welfare, it sounds great. Everyone's gonna get a piece of it, and that sounds amazing. It's just that there are poor children and poor families. We need to see the reality as it is. These children have problems with being part of sports, for example. It's not about pointing someone out. It is social services that deal with this issue of social assistance, i.e. subsistence support. This extracurricular allowance is also housed in the work of social services. There is no publicity in it, so there will be no mention of these children at all.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-497	Madam President! When I visited the association life and the National Sports Federation in connection with and after the introduction of the leisure money, they said they did not want it. Perhaps there were some municipalities that started the initiative, but many said that they did not want the money precisely because they pointed out those children who did not have enough money in their families. We have very widespread support to provide a secure life even for people who have economically tough situations in their lives. We also strengthen society's resources to increase the possibility of, for example, entering working life and getting a job. It is also an opportunity for those parents to have a better financial situation. So we have different levels that we are working at so that families can have more resources. We have decided to move away from the policy that you represented with major tax cuts to the wealthiest in society, instead of investing in building up the Swedish model and welfare. It's as simple as that. It also means that we will see a further development where we provide the conditions for people who today have a little worse economy to get it even better, and in that way we strengthen their conditions. We have confidence that the foundation will lie in the parents' ability to help their children and young people. We do so through the policy we pursue.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-501	Madam President, I would like I have to replicate Peter Johnsson's statement that we should keep an arm's length away from the sports movement. Among the things is that Peter Johnsson himself has been a member of an evaluation group here in the Riksdag where we were completely united, all parties except V who could not attend. There we, including Peter Johnsson, decided to review state support for sport. That was the subject of this group, and it mainly concerned children and young people. Peter Johnsson, like all of us, said that this was very important and that a review was needed. We'd have a good dialogue with RF. The point is also that we already have the funds to work against doping, support local activity, integration, socially vulnerable areas and so on. They have entered into a dialogue between the Government and the Swedish Sports Federation. Does Peter Johnsson want to tear this up now and criticise previous alliance governments that have actually brought this about? What authority or organization gets $2 billion in blanco to do what it wants with? Is that what the Social Democrats and Peter Johnsson are now pushing for? I wonder. There should be a very good dialogue between the Swedish Sports Federation and the state about the social bearer that sport actually is. It's an amazing carrier of society. Together, we will also create goals and aims for this. We took a parliamentary decision in 2009 that it is the Riksdag that decides on the objectives and purposes of the sports movement and the state funds for it. Is that the decision that Peter Johnsson wants to tear up here today?
i-ead9d8c281795c87-507	Madam President, I would like No, it's definitely not. It is precisely in this way that the Riksdag provides the conditions for goals and orientations that will then be passed on via dialogue with the Swedish Sports Federation. What I am thinking about and a little worried about are the reservations of the opposition. Listening to them in this House leads to an announcement to the government. The government can provide the conditions for the sports movement with regulatory letters, in dialogue with RF. But here in Parliament, in this House, we make legislative decisions. Do you understand the starting point? If there may be an announcement from the Riksdag, it is a clear demand from the Riksdag, which is the legislative body, that the Swedish sports movement should be affected. That's what I'm a little opposed to and I'm a little worried about. Then it is no longer arm's length, but then we, the Riksdag, are inside and poking in the development of the sports movement. We shall of course have a dialogue and a discussion about, and a follow-up of, how resources are used. There's nothing strange about that. But when we press the buttons and make decisions in this House, if a majority is in favour of it, it will be an announcement. And then the parliament would govern the politics of sport in a completely different way than before. That's what I'm a little worried about.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-510	Madam President, I would like 100 more hours of sports in school was a big and important request from the Alliance, because we have huge public health challenges right now. The government parties really resisted, which is unbelievable in view of the challenges we face. The National Sports Federation supports us, of course also the sports movement. Research supports us. Sports and physical activity at school lead to a lot of good results. But the government parties did not agree. Thanks to the announcement from the Alliance, we were able to push through 100 more hours of sports in school. That's a good start. That's not enough. It's not enough. But it's a good start. The government said no to that for a long time. There was also an announcement, along with criticism from the Swedish National Audit Office, that the government did not bring back the results of the effects that state funds have brought to sport. The Swedish National Audit Office also believes that this should be improved. Of course, in his evaluation of state support for sport, Peter Johnsson has also been involved in thinking that it is right and proper. Today Peter Johnsson is saying something completely different. Peter Johnsson was one of the group who thought so, but now we hear something else. A major criticism is therefore that the government has not reported on the impact of support for sport. And the big loser at that is sports. We need to show what social benefits it actually leads to. That, in turn, might mean that there could be more resources. We don't know, and I can't promise this today. But the announcements that have come are important.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-514	Madam President, I would like In the case of 100 hours more sports at school, I do not know whether it is on the table of the Committee on Culture. It is more linked to the curriculum and is therefore on the Education Committee. And the curriculum is not unpolitically governed in any way, unlike the sports movement, but is, of course, politically governed via the Riksdag and the Government. So there is a little difference from that perspective. When it comes to impact and the economy, it is obviously an economic issue in that you want to know what the money is going to do. There's one thing. The parliament and the committee will of course make us live in different ways. But what I am pointing out is precisely the governance, in general, with the decision of the Riksdag to announce the direction of the sports movement. The sports movement says flatly no to that form of orientation, to that we should govern more politically how the sports movement develops. It will be developed from below, locally and regionally, through various democratic decisions within the Swedish Sports Federation's voices and the like. And we will be in a dialogue to provide the conditions for society and the sports movement to develop together those things that do not work. It's obvious, and that's how I want it. At the same time, of course, I would like to know what is happening to the economic conditions that we are giving to RF. But, as I said, the money was historically directly linked to Svenska Spel. Then there was definitely no political governance. This was not possible, as Svenska Spel gave of its return to the sports movement. But they wanted a longer-term safer existence, not increased political governance. That is what concerns me when I see the opposition's reservations in this House.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-518	Madam President, I would like It is not possible to debate sports issues today without mentioning the Swedish successes in the Olympic Games. It was a fantastic effort, especially by the ladies. But Sweden also takes far more medals than our population size actually motivates. We are undoubtedly doing something right in the country as far as the conditions for sport are concerned. A fundamental factor is Sweden's broad association life and not least the non-profit efforts that parents and others make as leaders and trainers in children's and young people's activities. It helps to keep membership fees down so that as many people as possible can participate. It is hardly possible to overestimate the value of the non-profit working time spent in our associations, not only sports associations, but also outdoor organisations and others. Every crown in the association grant provides an enormous exchange of benefits to society. There are also, of course, challenges. One such challenge, many of whom have touched upon, is the increasing sedentary attitude. Children, adolescents and adults move too little. Therefore, every effort that leads to more people moving is more welcome and important, from a public health perspective. I have, among other things, exercised about broadening the regulations for health care allowance, so that horseback riding can also be included. There was no political decision needed. In January, the Swedish Tax Agency announced that there are no legal obstacles to including horseback riding, golf and other things in the fitness allowance. I hope now that the Swedish Tax Agency can also make it clear that the same tax rules that apply to sports associations will apply to outdoor recreation organisations. If this does not happen, we need to proceed with political decisions in order to clarify the legislation on this issue. In this report, many important motions have been put forward. In all cases, however, the committee has been able to see that these are issues that have been met in one way or another. This applies, for example, to the exercise on leisure banks. The first leisure bank was established in Deje in 2013. The concept is simple: If you have recreational equipment that you no longer need, you can donate it to the leisure bank, which then lend the equipment free of charge for up to 14 days to the person who needs it. The concept has spread like wildfire across the country, and this five years later, the vision of at least one leisure bank in each municipality is about to become a reality. Today, those of us who live in Uppsala received the positive news that Uppsala's second leisure bank is being established. This creates even better conditions for more people to use recreational equipment that they may find difficult to manage on their own financially. Not only economics can be an obstacle to getting involved in sport. Functional variations are another major problem. Here the government has acted by commissioning the Centre for Sport Research to analyse the situation and highlight the positive examples that exist. I look forward to their report and to the fact that we can shape a policy that will make it possible for people with different disabilities to become more involved in sport. I call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-527	Madam President, I would like It is indeed fantastic that as many as almost 3.1 million people in our country are members of a sports or outdoor association. Let me begin by thanking all the enthusiasts who stand up for their fellows, who wash ice, clean halls, cook sausages, wash clothes, encourage and comfort. They commit themselves several days a week to an association without payment and not infrequently even large financial efforts to make the business work. All associations active in our country are making a very valuable contribution to public health, local cohesion and to children and young people's growing-up conditions. For me as a left-wing party, it is very important that we pay attention to the fact that, unfortunately, many children are outside this important activity today. I am proud that, together with the government, we have increased the funding for the sports movement in the latest budgets and that the focus has been on keeping the fees down. It is essential that each association thinks about how they can be open to all children. There are many good examples of how leaders and boards questioned old traditions about expensive activities, purchase of equipment or costly training camps. Part of the initiative has also gone to the important integration work of the associations. For newly arrived children the membership fee is of course a crucial issue, but it is also important how associations work with parental participation and information. We need to be aware that the structures surrounding sport are quite different in most other countries of the world. Madam President, I would like We are certainly many Members here today who can testify to how sport has been important in our lives in various ways. That is how it looks to many people in our country. The sports association is the place where many have their friends, where you can develop both physically and mentally. There are adults who support and care. It is perhaps the place where you get to be yourself fully and where language skills and backgrounds are insignificant. But the sports association can unfortunately also be a hierarchical environment where only the best are counted and encouraged, where for the first time you are aware that your body is not good enough, where you feel left out even though you are one of the team. It may be the place where the adult leaders think it is more important to win than with the joy of playing for all who participate. The language can be gross and derogatory in the changing room and on the level, and the economic demands can be so high that you cannot participate in the way you would like. For those of us who want the sports movement to continue to be an important part of our society, the great strong popular movement where everyone can participate, it is important to see that both of these images are true. Otherwise, we're doing the movement a disservice. In order to be relevant to a large part of the population, all associations must work with the back pages and see what challenges are in them. It goes without saying that the structures that exist in our society can also be found in sport, sometimes even in a more concentrated form. During this autumn's metoo call, we found that there are many ingredients in sport that make girls and women extra vulnerable right there. The Left Party has over the years written motions on how the sports movement needs to work harder with gender equality goals, LGBTQ issues and increase knowledge about transgender conditions in society. Here it is a difficult balance between how much politics should interfere in and how independent the sports movement should be. My attitude is that we should make demands and have high expectations but not detail control. The proposals on how to achieve the objectives must come from below and be well anchored in order for it to become a workshop. I am in favour of the approach taken in many of the motions for resolutions that we are discussing here today. Questions such as unhealthy body ideals and children's perspective are very close to my heart and the Left Party. But I am pleased and perhaps even happier when I read in the answers from our experts that the Swedish Sports Federation and the special sports federations are working very well on the basis of the strategy adopted in 2025 and the challenges identified. They have set tough targets for equal boards and seem to have a good focus on children's perspectives in sport. I feel like it's the right way to go. But the journey has only just begun. From a political point of view, we can say that things are going too slowly and that much of this should have happened a long time ago. But at present, I feel that we may need to have some ice in our stomachs and see how the work is progressing and have respect for the fact that it takes time for all leaders in 20 000 associations to be on the train. In the worst case, throwing in new assignments could lead to division of work. At this stage, our role as a politician must be to ensure that there are the right conditions for carrying out the work that is going on. This applies to all the training measures and projects that are being started. Here, the efforts made by the Left Party and the Government in the budgets play a major role. This is a mission that we have together with our party colleagues in the municipalities. They are close to the associations and govern a large part of the contributions that the associations receive. They provide the ski trails, halls, swimming homes and grass floors needed. Then, of course, we will ensure that there are good follow-ups, that we get back information about what is happening and that we continuously have a good dialogue with the sports movement. I therefore support the committee's proposal for a decision on all points and therefore reject the reservations.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-543	Madam President, I would like I am going to talk about education from a different perspective today, although I look forward to the study mentioned in the report on the future training of interpreters. The investigation will be reported in December. A review is good, important and necessary so that we know what it looks like about the availability and use of interpreters. I'm going to talk about a report that the Folkbildningsrådet has recently presented about the collaboration model and public education. The cultural cooperation model was introduced by the Alliance Government in 2010. It provided a new way of allocating money to regional cultural activities and for regions to establish three-year cultural plans. Folk high schools and study associations are not covered by the cultural cooperation model. That is why the report is so interesting because peoples' education is included in all 20 cultural plans in the country. The report Folkbildningen takes place in the regional cultural plans contains a survey made in 2017. So it's a recent survey. When we talk about culture in everyday life, many of us primarily think of theatre, music, opera, art and more. The fact that education is the country's largest cultural arena and a major employer and labour market for the country's cultural workers is perhaps something that not everyone thinks about. I can mention that the study associations had 375 000 cultural programmes with 20 million participants in 2016. Folkhögskolan had 209 000 participants and 4 700 cultural programmes. Thanks to the widespread spread of peoples' education across the country, peoples' education can ensure access to culture and cultural competence throughout the country and in different groups of the population. This is particularly important in rural and sparsely populated areas. All regional cultural plans show that student associations and folk high schools are involved as partners or organisers in the field of culture. The focus of public education on own participation, amateur culture and participatory culture is also highlighted in the regional cultural plans. The aesthetic education of folk high schools is presented both as part of regional cultural life and as important for regional cultural life. Associations of students and folk high schools belong organisationally to hundreds of thousands of civil society organisations and cooperate locally with tens of thousands of associations. This report, which is very interesting and which I can recommend, points out that there is an ambition for increased collaboration and coordination between different parts of regional cultural life and where peoples' education and civil society are given more prominent roles. Folk high schools and study associations are described in some cultural plans as a natural part of the region's cultural infrastructure. Their importance as cultural organisers is highlighted, especially in smaller towns and rural areas, which is very positive. The report also highlights the cooperation and support of study associations in local associations. In addition, the aesthetic courses of folk high schools are highlighted as very important. They serve in some regions as a hub for different cultural areas. In my own county, Västernorrland, the cultural plan mentions that one of the county's folk high schools will contribute to the development of a symphony orchestra for young people. Here peoples' education creates the conditions for a very vibrant local culture. The aesthetic education of folk high schools and the activities of study associations in the field of culture are also mentioned as a potential collaboration partner in the field of art. It's interesting and exciting. It is also exciting that peoples' education seems to have taken their own place in the regional cultural plans. In conclusion, I would like to say that anyone who reads the cultural plans gets a good picture of folk high schools and study associations. The plans also express high expectations of folk high schools and study associations in terms of their participation in the objectives of the regions. In many parts of the country, work is under way in which many different models of collaboration between public and public education are being tested. Many regions also see an extended perspective on the model of cultural cooperation. Many regions see the close relationship of peoples' education to local community life as an asset in cultural life. Investigator Thomas Östlund also concludes the report with the question of whether peoples' education in the future has an opportunity to develop a coordinating role, as a hub in regional non-profit cultural life. I would like to conclude with a quote from the investigators mentioned, who have written the report on behalf of the Folkbildningsrådet. He writes that regional cultural policy is in the process of development and that the model of cultural cooperation and regional cultural plans are key factors in this development.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-557	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for a good debate so far. Sweden is doing well, but not all people are there yet. Today, 250 000 more people are in work than four years ago. 250 000 more people wake up every day, have breakfast and can say to the next few, bye, see you after work! Now I'm going to school. Youth unemployment is the lowest in 15 years. We are building a knowledge boost that provides more opportunities to participate in lifelong learning with more places at university of applied sciences, higher education initiatives and, not least, in adult education. Today, child benefit is being raised for the first time since 2006, giving thousands of children and young people and their families a better financial situation. In short, we invest in society, in more housing, in school and in the conversion work. We have taken a decision in this House on a historic increase in the cultural budget, with more culture for more people: investment in libraries, more accessible cultural schools and increased support for free art and artists. We invest in each other, and we want more. Our model is precisely about this: we can, if we want to, together, make society better. A crucial part of the Swedish model is the peoples' movements. Today, we are focusing in particular on sport and peoples' education. In my speech, I will devote a moment to peoples' education policy. Initially, it is appropriate to draw up a summary. During the term of office, the government's policy has meant a strong focus on peoples' education. From 2015 until today, student associations and folk high schools play a crucial role in the ability of tens of thousands of asylum seekers and newcomers to quickly acquire basic knowledge of Swedish, a social introduction and vital networks in the local community. We have created more places at folk high schools within the framework of the work on a knowledge lift, and peoples' education has a place in the work to reach groups far the furthest from work and knowledge in specific interventions such as outreach, reading promotion and study motivation courses. Madam President, I would like In a week it will be 8 March, International Women's Day. Ulrika Knutson, journalist and author, describes in the book Women on the verge of breakthrough in a fantastic way Fogelstad Group's emergence and importance in women's struggle for justice, democracy and full citizenship from the early 1920s to the mid 1950s. The challenges of the 1920s, the breakthrough of democracy with universal and equal suffrage, the emergence of modern society, rapidly growing cities, poverty, unemployment and not least the threat of anti-democratic forces from both the right and the left as well as a new modernity required organization. The answer came to be public education and educational work through newspaper publishing. The following is a quote from the school's prospectus 1925: The school must work by bringing people from different fields of work and areas of life, from rural and urban areas, to joint studies and mutual exchanges. It wants to seek the connection between the work of the hand, the brain and the heart, between the world of the home and society, between the individual and the general. ..................................................... Over 2,000 women had participated during the 30 years of school existence. From the founders of the school we find two of Parliament's first female members elected after the introduction of universal and equal voting rights in 1921. Among the participants, a great many people testify to how people's education gave courage and insight to take the step further into the labour market, free themselves from the tasks of the home and take a place in society. I came to Fogelstad like nothing – and cycled from here like a human being! This is just a story. The emergence of public education goes hand in hand with the breakthrough of Swedish democracy. And the stories are many. Folk education and educational work give people power, freedom and tools to dare change. That's why we're going to invest in public education. Madam President, I would like Today, folk high schools are 150 years old. Over the past few weeks, I have spent a great deal of time visiting folk high schools in the Stockholm region. I've talked to principals, teachers and students in different courses. It's very hard to collect the impressions, but I'm still doing a little try. The students themselves express that they have found their place in existence. This is where everything falls into place, and the eligibility for higher education or the possibility of a job is finally within reach. Many talk about pedagogy, the smaller groups and, not least, how teachers have enabled much faster language learning. This is a key to faster establishment. But folk high schools are not just competences and vocational training. Many schools are also an important cultural infrastructure, as we have also heard in previous speeches, where opportunities are given to anyone who wants to devote time and energy to a hobby or leisure can make their interest grow in different directions. However, there are also challenges. Many principals and teachers testify that the folk high schools today pick up groups that are farthest from and need the most education. This is why the Government's proposal to strengthen extra places is welcomed, but at the same time more and above all longer-term conditions are being demanded to work. All these experiences and stories make me convinced that today's great challenges will need a strong education and a strong folk high school in the future. Madam President, I would like Sweden is doing well, but more needs to be done to meet our challenges. We must now, as then, develop democracy. Everyone shall be given the opportunity to participate fully. Today, the difference in participation in both association life and democratic elections is very large between different groups, districts and people from different backgrounds. Filter bubbles and online debates mean that we all have an extra great responsibility to separate facts from feelings and empty claims. This requires both education and knowledge. The new arrivals who have come to Sweden in recent years have a great desire to learn more and quickly get to take part of and contribute to society t. We can achieve this by investing more and shortening the start-up periods. Many of our challenges today must be met together. Folkbildning is an infrastructure for culture and democracy. It gives people language and power to change their lives. Madam President, I would like I'm getting close to the end. I'm gonna rap a little bit. Folkbildning should be free and voluntary, but we as politicians have a crucial responsibility to stand up for community support. The government's efforts during this term of office are important as a political marker, especially when regional and municipal support has been reduced for a long time. It also shows a political will to increase people's opportunities in life through education. We're in the middle of an election campaign. To conclude, I would like to refer back to the budget debate last autumn. There is a clear dividing line in Swedish politics and here in this House in the view of support for peoples' education. Our efforts, with more outreach activities for study associations, support for adults to do school work with their children, language activities for asylum seekers and new arrivals and more places at folk high schools so that more people can make that life trip, says Alliance together with SD no to. Add to that that 10 out of 15 municipalities that today do not provide support for peoples' education are governed by Moderates! It is the same party that also believes in its budget motion that the investments in more places in folk high schools are about hiding unemployment. And so there are the Swedish Democrats, who see all efforts for asylum seekers and new arrivals as a threat to Swedishness, who want to put an end to all grants that focus on clearly multiculturalist and politicised activities and who do not want to see an expansion of folk high schools. Public education policy is not about concealing open unemployment or denying people from different backgrounds opportunities in life. It is about democracy and everyone's right to develop and grow as human beings. That is why we need a workable, long-term and strong public education policy.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-589	Mr President, I would like to At the informal European Council last week, there were two topics on the agenda: institutional issues and the EU's long-term budget, which will apply from 2021. That is why Britain's Prime Minister Theresa May was not present at the meeting. No conclusions were adopted and no formal decisions were taken. If I start with the institutional issues, there is still a great deal of consensus. With regard to the European Parliament's proposal for a change of mandate after the UK has left the EU, there was broad support. This means that some of the 73 mandates that will remain vacant will be allocated to countries that are currently under-represented in relation to their population. For Sweden, this means that we will have an additional mandate in addition to the 20 that we have today, and I welcome that. The European Council will return to this draft composition probably in June this year, well in advance of the European Parliament elections in spring 2019. Decisions shall then be taken by unanimity. We also discussed the handling of the election of future Presidents of the Commission, where we know that there is a discussion going on about the fact that a party's main candidate, who has received the most votes, will automatically become President of the Commission. The European Council believes that it is a mandate that the European Council has under the Treaty, and it also means that the European Council will nominate a candidate. At the same time, of course, we shall listen to the European Parliament. Furthermore, there was no support for merging the posts of President of the European Commission and President of the European Council into a single one. The issue of joint constituency with transnational lists did not generate much enthusiasm among Heads of State or Government either. However, this issue will come back in a discussion in 2019, i.e. after the forthcoming elections to the European Parliament. Mr President, I would like to I turn to an issue where there was less consensus, namely the EU's future long-term budget. The aim of the discussions was to give EU leaders a first opportunity to present their positions and priorities for the next multiannual budget. I would first like to say that it is important that we express that Sweden benefits from European cooperation. We benefit from a safe and safer Europe. We benefit from an open and free internal market as well as from cooperation to meet common challenges. This also requires a well-thought-out and sustainable budget. Britain's withdrawal from the EU gives us a good opportunity to modernise the EU budget and to re-priority rather than increase the EU budget. My messages were mainly about three things: Firstly, we need a modern budget that prioritises innovation, competitiveness, climate, migration and security. At the same time, we need to cut back on the Structural Funds and agricultural policy. Secondly, we need a reasonable level of the budget and, furthermore, a realistic timescale. When Britain leaves, we simply need to correct the mouth after the lunch. At the meeting, I made it clear that we must hold back claims for an expansive budget. With a wise re-prioritization and the growth we all have, there should be enough money for a good budget anyway. As far as the timetable is concerned, some have talked about the need to have a very fast process. I stressed then that it is more important for the result to be good than for us to be ready quickly. Of course, we should all help each other and try to get through as quickly as possible, but the result is the most important. Thirdly, we also need a fair budget. Sweden belongs to the net contributors, and we will continue to take our share of responsibility. But if someone thinks we're gonna pay a bigger share, they're gonna have to reconsider. Those who want a bigger budget can also be involved in paying. I also mentioned that countries that do not follow the values of the Union or follow decisions made should not receive the same amount of EU funding. In many of the questions, I supported this view. Many spoke of the need for a budget that focuses more on innovation, migration and security. The question of conditionality was raised by several others, and I feel that there is a greater understanding that it should be included in the new budget. Nor was I alone in addressing the need for a reasonable level of the budget as well as a fair distribution of costs. Then, of course, there were – and certainly not under the influence of – Member States who advocated a larger budget and had a different view of this. The Commission proposal will come in May. Afterwards long and difficult negotiations await, but it is at least now clear where Sweden stands in the discussion. The President of the European Council has previously announced that the March European Council will need to take a position on the political guidelines for the future relationship with the United Kingdom – regardless of whether the British Government has then specified its wishes. Tusk believes that there is an imminent risk that there may be vague guidelines due to unclear information from the UK.
i-9gt3WCnAD7k5Gq2vP5d6Tv	Mr President, Prime Minister Löfven. Thank you for the report from the European Council. On institutional issues, I think it looks good; the system of transnational lists has been rejected. It is important to ensure that the initiative to propose to the President of the European Commission lies primarily with the European Council. There is an obvious risk that the long-term budget will be expensive for Sweden. The UK has been one of the major net contributors, and there are strong forces to push for increased spending. I think it is reasonable to have the objective that Sweden's net levy should not increase and that the overall EU budget should not exceed 1% of GDP in the Member States. It is reasonable at a time when the EU has prescribed for so many other countries to cut back in their welfare state, reduce labour law and so on, that the EU itself has some capacity for self-awareness and is able to cut substantial expenditure. The ideas that the government, too, seems to advocate, support from regional funds and agricultural policy, a significant national co-financing, are a way forward to increased cost-effectiveness. We think it is reasonable not to finance common military expenditure over the EU budget but to separate military expenditure from EU activities. Our view as a party is that the European Council should give a very clear mandate to the government. It is time for the EU Board to get together and set an absolute limit on how far the government can go so that it has that support in the budget negotiations. We look forward to discussing this with the other parties. There's a veto that can be used. I would like to hear how the Prime Minister views the goal that Sweden's net contribution should not increase.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-612	Mr President, I would like to I was just saying that Sweden's share of the budget should not increase. We have said that we should keep costs down and that we should re-priority. With a growing gross domestic product, however, the nominal amounts will increase, as we believe that self-financing can increase – also for agricultural policy. That is simply our starting point. It's clear where we stand. It will be a very tough negotiation, and then we will have to look at the overall end result. Once we get there, we have to look at the overall end result. We have suggested that we want a low budget, not an increase in the percentage – as some propose. There are proposals for everything from 1.1 to 1.3. In combination with a cancelled discount, it can mean a dramatic increase. It won't happen. But I want us to at the same time look at whether the overall end result is good or not good for Sweden. That is an important position.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-615	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. It is reasonable to say that the Swedish share of the budget should not increase. But I also think it is reasonable to say that the Swedish net levy to the European Union should not increase. It is reasonable that the EU, too, should be called upon to rationalise its activities and to cut unnecessary expenditure. I should just like to remind you that it is a constant problem in the European Union that discharge is not given because it does not have control over its own expenditure. It is incredible that such a large organization has not received it in so many years. That is why we need better control and lower spending. I look forward to the fact that together we in the EU Council can set a clear ceiling on how far the government can go. I believe that this is our joint task, and it should also support the government in the next tough negotiations. I would also like the government to clearly reject the Commission's proposals for possible own revenues in the form of one or other hidden tax rights for the European Union.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-620	Mr President, I would like to I don't have much more to add. The government's position is complete. We will keep the budget down and Sweden's share of the fee. I still think we need to see if the final result of the negotiation is good or not good for Sweden. That must still be the case. I believe that we should take a position on the overall outcome.
i-g9GWZEiviJK2VwAoPL4rV	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. Like Jonas Sjöstedt, I can also note that, overall, we agree on the two major issues raised at the informal Prime Minister's meeting. I believe, like the Prime Minister, that it is very important for the European Union to exist and that it continues to be open in such a way that we can continue to operate with free speech in the future. Speaking of the issues that have been raised, I wonder which allies the Prime Minister has sought support from in order to impose, for example, financial sanctions on Member States that do not comply with the values we agree on in the Union. I would also like to know which allies the Prime Minister is seeking support from to get through the Swedish budget requirements. It won't be easy. We need allies to push questions in the direction we want.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-625	Mr President, I would like to In terms of conditionality, some of those countries are Germany, Holland, Denmark and France. Then there are some countries that do not think so. It is clear which countries. Then there is a floating scale in between – some who think more or less. We have a discussion and dialogue with these countries. The same is true of the level, distribution and modernisation of the budget. It's about the same countries that think alike. We have this discussion with Germany in particular, in close dialogue with Mrs Merkel. It is about those countries that I assume Eskil Erlandsson is asking for.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-627	Mr President, I would like to My second question concerns the Brexit discussions. Speaking of what can now be noted in the media, I wonder whether there were no under-discuss discussions on how to deal with the situation that has arisen. I think, and I am convinced that the Prime Minister also thinks, that it is essential that we quickly arrive at a result in the Brexit negotiations. It is essential and important for Sweden. My assessment is that it is the same for the United Kingdom and also for the Union as a whole. Was there really no under-discuss on the important issue for the Union?
i-ead9d8c281795c87-629	Mr President, I would like to It was not on the agenda, but it is clear that when EU leaders meet there are also discussions about Brexit – absolutely so. There is consensus here. We shall continue to hold the EU-27 together. It's absolutely crucial. We need clear answers from Britain. What do they mean? What is their will for the future relationship? Unfortunately, these messages are missing, so at the moment we have a complicated situation. There are also Member States that want to take this opportunity to say that there is no room for cherry pick-up here. Nobody wants that. But we from the Swedish side believe that we should take the most pragmatic approach in this, as we have said all along. Once this is over, the UK is where it is and the EU is where it is, and we must have the best possible relationship. But right now it is difficult and uncertain.
i-PSVScjqJ4H38vfuNQ8snjK	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for reporting. There are two news from the report via the Prime Minister and via the media. One is good; the other is bad. The good thing is that the Prime Minister seems to have fought well with the assignments he has – to protect Sweden and Sweden's expenditure and budget. The bad news is that there are too many EU countries that do not share the view expressed by the Prime Minister. I think it is important that we have a consensus in this House behind the Government's efforts to ensure that the budget does not increase and that we have a restrictive budgetary policy and, in general, the direction that the Prime Minister emphasised. In particular, there is a great deal of money to be collected from the so-called cohesion policy, that is, the Structural Funds. Many of the countries that needed money from these funds have had good economic development, so we need to look at this in a completely different way. Then we have to stand firm. I very much hope that the Prime Minister will stand firm in the future. Different descriptions are given here; one is that we have to look at the end result. Then I have a straight question: is a share of the EU budget something that can get into the final result?
i-ead9d8c281795c87-636	Mr President, I would like to Yes, we fight well and have been clear. We have an overall view, I think, from the Swedish Parliament. That is what we are expressing. The Structural Funds, as Mrs Klackenberg said, have meant that countries have been lifted. Then the need for such things should reasonably be less, so there is money to save – as well as on own taxes and how we deal with agricultural policy. What I mean by the end result is that we probably do not yet see all the parameters in a final act. I think we should be that mature and open. We need to see the bigger picture, but we need to keep the budget down. There are those who dream of an increased budget or that Sweden should take an increased share or pay more in net. We'll say no to that. That's not where we are. But when we are at the end of a negotiation, we must see the whole picture. I guess that's where parameters come in that we don't know about today. We must take these into account when assessing whether the final result is good enough for Sweden. If, in a negotiating situation, too many parameters are locked up too early, there will be no negotiation. You and I have sat on each side of the table, Dag Klackenberg, so we know how that works. That's all I'm saying. However, there is no doubt as to where we stand in principle in terms of the level of the budget, the modernisation of the budget, the distribution of the budget, the share of the budget and so on. There we are.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-640	Mr President, I would like to That is precisely what the Prime Minister and I have experienced earlier in our lives: we do not know the end result until we see it. But then I want to make a contribution, and that is that part of the budget is a dangerous way to go. It is just as dangerous as trying to answer the question of how far a string is. There may be differences of opinion about this in the final result, so that Sweden will pay a share of the budget when we do not know how big the budget is would be reprehensible. I very much hope that the Prime Minister and his colleagues can endure, because that is not the way to go.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-642	Mr President, I would like to That is why I say that the end result is the most important. That's when we're gonna weigh all the parameters. But we still have to assume that it is not reasonable for Sweden to pay a larger share than we do now. I think that is a reasonable starting point, as well as that we should keep the budget down as such and that it must become much more modern.
i-7RMWsDQjPPTQPhCdNmhr4G	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for reporting back! As several or all previous speakers have made clear, there is strong support in the EU Board for the government's line on both the institutional issues and the question of the future long-term budget. On behalf of the K rist democrats, we agree with this. We believe it is important that the current spending ceilings are fixed and that this is the starting point, that the Swedish EU levy is kept down and that the EU should reduce agricultural and regional aid in favour of investments in competitiveness, research, climate change, security and the management of migration. However, we also believe that EU aid should be conditional on Member States standing up for fundamental rights and implementing the decisions that the EU makes, and we think that we need to have better control of how the money is spent. The first question I am going to put to the Prime Minister concerns the discussion about having a faster process around the future long-term budget. The Prime Minister mentioned this briefly in the report, but how is the relationship of forces more concrete? Is there still a risk that there will be a very fast process on this issue, or is there more of a normal process?
i-ead9d8c281795c87-647	Mr President, I would like to I note the support here. We stand by all the parameters that we have talked about. What we may not have mentioned – and I still think there is consensus – are the priorities that we have talked about before, after the Brexit vote. We had a first meeting in Bratislava and then a meeting in Rome. I feel that the Member States agree on these priorities. This automatically means a certain shift of centre of gravity towards, for example, safety, more of safety. How do we fight terrorism? How do we defend Europe and Europe? I think that is a good starting point, because it will be a modernisation. Then the problem is just to keep the budget down. Then you cannot have the same level as for old expenditure, but there must be a re-prioritization. As far as the speed of the process is concerned, I believe that what the Commission would like, at least in the first instance, is to have a very rapid process – even so fast that the European Council would be ready in February next year to take a decision before the new Parliament enters. Now, of course, this is not done until everything is done, so it is not the Commission's decision to make this timetable now. We have said that if there is a great proposal next week, we can strike. But it is the content that is good, and we intend to stand up for what we agree on in the Swedish Parliament. I believe that it will not be possible to have such a fast process. However, we must make an effort to ensure that the process is not over just before the new budget comes into force. I think we can try to do that. However, I believe that it will not be possible to have a process as fast as the Commission, among other things, would like to have.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-652	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. My point of entry when I say that there is a risk of a rapid process is simply that I see that it could be the driving force behind the EU budget. But thank you very much for that answer! A further question that I would like to ask is one of the things that was a priority for the government, namely to get better control of how the money in Europe is spent. This is, of course, an issue that was only the other week at the Ecofin Council, when the finance ministers voted on the recommendation to be made to the European Parliament on discharge for the Commission. Can the Prime Minister say a little more about how the discussion is going in that context? Is there more countries than Sweden and the Netherlands who see this problem – that we need to reduce the error in payments?
i-ead9d8c281795c87-655	Mr President, I would like to It was not a specific discussion at this European Council. But it certainly comes up from time to time, including on our part, that it is a matter of ensuring that the money is spent properly and in the best way for the citizens of the EU countries. That motive always exists, I mean – to make sure that we have order and know how the money is spent. But there was no specific discussion of this at this time.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-656	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for his statement from the European Council. It was an informal meeting, but there were still many important discussions that were raised. I think it is very positive that some of the proposals relating to the structure and institutions of the European Union seem to have fallen. It is also self-evident to me that the Treaty should be complied with and that it is the European Council that has to propose who should be President of the Commission. I can understand those who are eager for this with transnational lists – that one feels strong European community and so on – but I think it would be very difficult to convince the citizens of each country that this would be a good idea. I very much welcome the fact that the Prime Minister has pushed and managed to get this off the agenda. This, with candidates for excellence, is probably a question to which we will have to come back again. However, I think it is overvalued. I do not think that there are many citizens in Sweden who remember who were the leading candidates for the various political parties last time. Then I come to a more difficult issue, namely the long-term budget. I think what the Prime Minister is pushing is very positive. It is also positive that there is such a broad consensus on Sweden's role in this and on what input values we should have. I was involved in discussing the long-term budget last time with the then bourgeois government. It is of great value that there is a consensus. I think the entry values in this are very good. I will come back to this in the next post.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-661	Mr President, I would like to Do the institutional issues have a positive impact? Both yes and no. This with the lists was rejected by Parliament. However, we will not be able to prevent a discussion, so it will probably come again after the forthcoming European Parliament elections. We are prepared for this, but we have the same view as before. It is the same with the question of the President of the Commission. The European Council must stand up for the mandate given by the Treaty to the European Council. It's extremely important. However, it will probably be the case that the parties in this House, over which we do not control, will propose a Spitzen candidate. They will take the view that whoever has been appointed in this way and who has received the most votes will automatically also be President of the Commission. In this respect, the European Council must indicate that it is the Council that has the mandate to propose a President. We know that there will have to be negotiations with the European Parliament, but it is important to stand up for the mandate that it actually has. As far as the new budget is concerned, it is good that we have a broad outline of our initial values. We'll stand up for that, and we'll seek like minded as far as possible. It will be a very tough negotiation. I am absolutely convinced of that. That is why I find it difficult to see that it will be able to go as quickly as some people want, especially the Commission.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-664	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. It is very positive that there is such a broad consensus on the budget in the Swedish Parliament. It's a force for us. The starting point is that it should be a more modern budget, we have been running for a long time. We have also succeeded in some parts, such as reducing agricultural aid over the years. But now it is even more important when such a large Member State leaves. When we have new Member States, it goes without saying that the budget will increase. That's reasonable. Similarly, if a Member State chooses to leave the Union, the budget should be reduced. But this will be a tough fight. It's about fighting, being cunning and being constructive. It will be many times that you have to come back for mandates and so on. But the entrance is good, I think. We are really going to ensure that coherence is maintained, because it is a force when negotiating in Brussels.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-666	Mr President, I would like to I fully share that view. That is a good logic: if you are more, the budget is bigger, you are fewer, it is smaller. That is the logic that we pursue. That's absolutely right. In the Commission, someone argued that half of the revenue loss should be managed with savings and half in some other way, which is therefore equal to a higher fee. That discussion will continue, of course. Marie Granlund hits the spot when she says that it is constructiveness that we should stand for. That is also why, at the turn of the line with Dag Klackenberg, I said that we do not yet see all the parameters. There may be new things on the table that we do not know about. You shouldn't commit yourself too early in a process, because then you won't be constructive. Then it will always be harder to find a solution. It is the overall end result that we shall take a position on.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-669	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister Löfven, for the report you have given in this Chamber today! I share the view you have expressed regarding Sweden's entrances. These are good positions and something we need to stand by. I also think that the Prime Minister has given good answers to the questions he has been asked. I feel confident with those answers and with the line taken by the government on behalf of Sweden in these contexts. Actually, I don't have any questions for you, Stefan Löfven. I think you've done a good accounting. Perhaps we who do not regularly work with these questions could tell you a little more about the informal meetings and their role and importance. What happens in the next step? No conclusions were adopted and no decisions were taken. What now happens to this which you have discussed in the Council?
i-ead9d8c281795c87-672	Mr President, I would like to The informal meetings provide an opportunity for Heads of State or Government to give their starting points in terms of, for example, the budget. The Commission is listening. There is no negotiation with the Commission about anything, but the Commission listens to all the Member States. That is what will then form the basis for the Commission's proposal for a decision, which will come in May. There is certainly a balance between the different Member States, although it is unclear what it will look like. So this is how it is supposed to work: informal meetings provide a basis for those who will later make proposals, such as the budget. It remains to be seen what this leads to. I see a long and complicated negotiation ahead of me.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-674	Mr President, I would like to We have much harder discussions in front of us between the Member States, I imagine. But thank you for the clarification. I think it is good for many people who listen to the debates to put informal meetings in context and understand what they really mean.
i-Tyu7JKSMprJoJP3NBqqSJG	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for your report. The part of the report that I found most interesting concerns the EU's long-term budget. I'm not the only one who brings it up in my questions about reporting back. It makes sense, because it's about a lot of money. Membership costs a lot of money, and we get very little money back. We are a major net contributor. As I see it, we have constantly increased the cost in the long term, in many cases more than inflation. This is linked to the constant shift of power from the national parliaments to the Parliament that exists in Brussels. There will be a cost not only in the form of money but also in the form of power. I think it is important that this aspect is also addressed. It's not just about money. However, money is an important part, and that is what is being discussed at the summit. There I think I can see a shift from the Prime Minister to some of the discussions we have had in the past. In fact, at least I have seen that in the past the government too has had an ambition that the expenditure, i.e. the cost of EU membership, should not increase. Now we have to wait and see what results we get and what parameters we get back. I think that's an unfortunate shift. I also find myself missing a debate and discussion about perhaps lowering the fee. On the part of our party, we would like to reduce the fee significantly, and this can be done even though the UK is leaving the EU. We are such a large net contributor. As Jonas Sjöstedt mentioned – he is the only Member who has mentioned it so far – Sweden actually has the right of veto. This is one of the very few areas where we actually have the right to say no and where everyone else has to listen to our 'no'.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-679	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I do not share the view that it costs a lot and that we get some back. If we hadn't had this association and hadn't been in it, it would have cost a lot. If you don't see the opportunity it actually gives to belong to this community – with what it means by low tariffs, the opportunity to build together research and innovation, new products and a market that can compete with China, the United States and other major players – this will, of course, only be a cost. I have a completely different picture of the European Union and that Community. I think it is a populist attitude, but of course you can have it. A large part of our exports – I think it may be 70% of our exports – go to this area. This is extremely important to us. If the UK goes out, it is of course of great importance to us what those rules will look like; if there are bad rules between the EU and the UK, Swedish companies will have a serious disadvantage there alone. Great Britain is also a major trading partner, and we must see that. There is, of course, an expenditure side and a cost side, but there is also a revenue side that we need to talk about. In fact, the Swedish Democrats also need to start doing that. The question is how we create as much added value as possible. It is clear that we should have no more decisions than necessary or wrong issues lying in the European Union, but there are issues where we have to gain from cooperation in the European Union and where there is clear added value. For example, a European labour market must work in the best possible way for wage earners, and then there is a need to have basic conditions which allow Member States to have a good labour market separately. In the end, then, it is a matter of being constructive. I think it is important to have a constructive attitude: What is the overall result for Svea riket when the discussion is over? That's what we're going to take a stand in the end. That is my firm opinion.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-684	Mr President, I would like to I understand the Prime Minister's point of departure from his view of politics and how politics should be conducted, but I believe that what the Prime Minister mentions – cooperation on research and other things, student exchanges and trade with each other – can be done even without a supranational Union. We did so before joining the European Union, and we could do so even now if we and all the other countries in Europe did not agree that this should not be the case. That is the attitude the Prime Minister has taken, and when he does so together with other powers in Europe, we get the situation we have, where we consistently renounce our own self-determination while paying a lot of money – and doing so voluntarily. I mean, we don't really have to do that. We can join forces with other countries and discuss an alternative development than constantly increasing costs and power transfer.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-686	Mr President, I would like to What this is about is that decisions should be in the respective place where they do the best good for Swedish citizens. We have decisions in the Swedish Parliament, which is the foundation platform, as well as decisions in the council, county councils and regions. Some decisions and actions are better at European level. We will never be a big enough nation to compete with the United States, China, India and the other big players. This presupposes that we can have an effective internal market where Sweden is part of it. When we do, we get the same cost advantages in terms of innovation, development, research and product development. If we have an internal market that actually works, we will have the basic conditions – and also the economic conditions – to take advantage of the conditions of employees and citizens. That is the value we must ensure that we create and safeguard, and that is the added value of the European Union.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-689	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for reporting back, Prime Minister. I was pleased to hear the Prime Minister highlight the budget as a tool to ensure that the decisions we actually take together in the EU are implemented and enforced throughout Europe. For a long time, the Moderates have highlighted the need to use the budget as a tool to ensure that we get to grips with the implementation deficit that we unfortunately see. So it was welcome. As far as the long-term budget is concerned, I can see that the alliance government was successful when it was negotiated last time. Then, after tough negotiations, much thanks to the fact that we were building alliances with other countries, we actually achieved a reduction in the total EU budget from 1.12% of the UK to the current 1.03%. As a result, we also managed to keep down the fee Sweden pays to the Union. Eskil Erlandsson asked the Prime Minister about which countries are like-minded and which Sweden is trying to hook arms with, but I would like to ask the Prime Minister to develop a little bit what the strategy for success looks like and perhaps also what the strategy for widening the circle of like-minded people looks like. It is about getting more countries to support the Swedish position we are widely agreed on, namely to be very restrictive in the budget discussions. I would also like to return to agricultural policy, as the Prime Minister hastily mentioned in a previous reply, Mr President. There, the Prime Minister highlighted the beginning of the discussion about opening up to allow individual Member States to finance some measures. I felt that the Prime Minister expressed a fundamentally positive attitude towards it. I do not close that door, nor do the Moderates, but I think there is every reason to be very skeptical. If this is done in the wrong way, it risks breaking the common agricultural policy and distorting competition. I would therefore like the Prime Minister to extend the text a little further and comment on this.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-695	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to conditionality, it is important to hold on to it. I think we could see a greater willingness to discuss this in more countries than I might have anticipated, and I think that is a good start. How do you become successful? It is clear that it is a matter of liaising with those countries that feel the same. I mentioned some, such as Germany, the Netherlands, Denmark and France, and Austria is also to be added to the list. Then it is not that there are two teams – one on one side and one on the other – but there is, of course, also a floating limit. Then, of course, the second is to make sure that you have good arguments for your cause. Of course, we should develop these arguments together with those who feel the same way as we do, such as Germany. We will in all likelihood have a bilateral meeting to see how we can develop this. The third is constructiveness. The reasoning about early vetoing or saying that it absolutely must be made in a certain way is probably not the most constructive thing to do, but it is about keeping a negotiation alive and making sure to create as much as possible. There are, of course, limits where you can say, no, there will be none of this, and that is why I have also said that there is no question of both raising a percentage and removing the rebate so that Sweden's fee increases dramatically. That's not gonna happen. There is, of course, a veto, but otherwise I think it is important that we try to be as constructive as possible. Then you are still in the reasoning, and if you are not, you can sit next to and watch. As far as agricultural aid and self-financing are concerned, we have not had time to discuss it in detail, but we have said that it is reasonable to have some self-financing here too. It is also reasonable that self-financing for Structural Fund support should be increased – that we should go back to the situation we had before the financial crisis. It is also a way of saving money.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-701	Mr President, I would like to If models can be found that enable us to reduce overall the far too large agricultural budget that we have today at European level, I naturally welcome that. The budget we have for agricultural policy should, of course, be used for the right things and to a greater extent replace farmers for the major environmental efforts they make. However, there is a great risk of opening up to an increased degree of self-financing, namely that we will return to a situation where states distort competition through aid. So I think it is extremely important for the government to remain very vigilant about this. Mr President, I would like to We have talked a lot about the size of the budget but not so much about its direction. I would like the Prime Minister to say something about the government's strategy to ensure that we get the right priorities, i.e. more focus on actions that strengthen competitiveness in Europe – for example research – and less focus on what we have now discussed in the form of structural and regional funds and agricultural policies.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-704	Mr President, I would like to We are, of course, taking the debate on competition with us and not distorting competition, so that we do not end up in the old situation as far as agricultural policy is concerned. We will have to come back to this, but I do not have a fundamentally different view. Johan Hultberg asked about the direction of the budget. After the vote in Britain, we met in the European Council, first in Bratislava – in August of the same year – and the following year in Rome, when the Treaty of Rome was celebrated and we wrote a shorter declaration of Rome. Then there was also discussion of the priorities. It is not least about the jobs of young people. In this is innovation, new products, new growing companies and ensuring that the market benefits. Digitisation is there, as is security, both in the military and in the defence against terrorism. This is also the issue of migration and, not least, the issue of climate change.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-706	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. It is always nice to hear an EU-friendly approach, such as when the Prime Minister said that we benefit from EU cooperation. We certainly do. I would like to raise two points. One concerns the budget, and the other concerns the candidates for excellence. I'll start with the budget. As the Prime Minister describes, Britain's fee is now disappearing, and the discussion on how to redistribute or cut expenditure and on what to prioritise and down-priority will continue for a while. There is one way to prevent Sweden's contribution from being increased without cutting back on the EU's activities, namely to provide the EU with its own source of income. I am thinking of a European carbon tax. Liberals would like the EU to take greater responsibility for the climate, and a carbon tax at EU level would mean just that. The polluter pays, and the proceeds could go to the EU's activities. My question is whether the Prime Minister can support such a proposal. The second question concerns the candidates for the elections. In the last European elections, we were able to see European candidates for the post of President of the Commission for the first time. This was a historic gain for the European Parliament – at last we have something of a start to a European democracy. Election campaigns can be run in all EU countries. The EU is over 70 years old, and only now will we see the beginning of such a European election campaign. It's about time, we think. At last, the parties can choose a good candidate on the basis of their ideology, instead of it being the Heads of State who lock themselves in that dark room and after long negotiations choose a candidate for compromise. I find it sad that the Government does not support the European Parliament's proposals. It is not surprising that the Heads of State think it is up to them to decide, but I think it would be a better process if the European Parliament had more say. It will nevertheless be the case that the European Parliament does not approve of a candidate that it does not like. After all, it is the European Council that nominates candidates, but it is, after all, the European Parliament that chooses. I think it would be fun if the government could back up this vision of European candidates for excellence.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-714	Mr President, I would like to As far as the budget and own sources of income are concerned, we in Sweden have always expressed strong scepticism about this. Here, too, it is important to keep track of costs throughout the budget – not only revenue but also expenditure. This is best done by the Member States paying their contributions, and that is what also forms the basis for the costs that the European Union can have. I think we should stick to that order. With regard to candidates for excellence, I do not think that this is a great success for democracy. I can respect a different view, but that is not where it is decided whether Europe becomes democratic or not. The Treaty strikes a balance between Heads of State, the European Council and Parliament. That balance is established and is contained in the Treaty. It means that it is the European Council that will propose a candidate for President of the Commission. Then, of course, there is a discussion with the European Parliament. I think this is a good order. After all, it is the Member States that are paying. I think that the heads of government and state in the respective Member States have a mandate to propose a candidate for President of the Commission is a good order that we should maintain.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-717	Mr President, I would like to I do not know if the Prime Minister misunderstood what I said about a European carbon tax. Such a tax would not result in expenditure running out, but would, on the contrary, give the EU its own revenue, which can be used for expenditure. This would help to prevent charges to the EU from having to be increased after the UK exit. There is no strong European democracy at present – I agree with the Prime Minister. However, the fact that we have European candidates who can campaign in all countries may be the beginning of this. I think we should beware of an argument that was mentioned earlier by a social democrat in the speaker's chair, that no one remembers them from the previous elections. I do not know if we can say that about ourselves either after the next election, so we should be a little careful with this particular statement. A European candidate is designed precisely to make the EU more known at European level. We think this is a fine European vision for the future.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-720	Mr President, I would like to There may be differences of opinion. I do not believe that it is a great candidate to make Europe more known. On the other hand, we need to increase the civil dialogue, which is a matter that is being discussed between Heads of Government and Heads of State. How can it be possible to deepen the dialogue among citizens about the EU? What processes are there that can be improved? The fact that Europe is suddenly becoming more famous, I do not think, stands and falls with a great candidate, but one can have different views.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-722	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Prime Minister for the reporting back from the informal summit. With regard to this informal EU summit, I would particularly like to focus on the second part of the meeting, that is, the part relating to the EU's long-term budget. We have heard a rather intense debate on these issues. If you listen to this debate, you easily get the impression that there is a great deal of consensus here. The Prime Minister spoke, not least, of Sweden's profit from membership of the European Union, but I am very concerned about this claim, not least as regards Sweden's self-determination and economy. As we have noted earlier in the debate, Sweden is one of the largest net contributors. What exactly is happening to Sweden's membership fee? In these discussions, the government constantly insists on budgetary restraint, but in fact, Sweden is, as often as possible, overridden in these matters. We are one of the largest net donors, and with Brexit Sweden's membership fee will increase. Nor does the process of enlargement that we see in the European Union mean that Sweden's net levy will be kept down. Instead, I think that we should reverse the perspective and, in the longer term, work for a withdrawal from what the EU has become and, in the short term, for us not to be a net donor at all. I also think that the government and the Prime Minister should use the veto right that Sweden has in these discussions. One might well cut back on agricultural aid, the Structural Funds and other unnecessary expenditure.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-727	Mr President, I would like to That is what I have said – that we should have a modern budget means that it should be less of structural funds and less of agricultural aid and a common agricultural policy. The level should be low and the distribution fair – Sweden should pay no more than its rightful share. This is the starting point, and in it lies a variety of things. It is possible to increase self-charges to the Structural Funds and redistribute the money so that we make better use of the added value of cooperating against terrorism and for a stronger defence. In our view, this automatically leaves less room for spending on structural funds and agricultural policy. The fact that Sweden would be overridden is just populism, in my opinion. The same applies to withdrawal – a withdrawal would certainly not be good for Swedish citizens. This would give us significantly less opportunities to have good growth in jobs. The conditions for issues related to youth unemployment, jobs, new products and the business market would be completely different and much worse. If that's the way we're going, we have a darker future. We will ensure that we are involved in this cooperation. We make our views known. We stand by our opinions. We are a party that is very active in the discussion and respected as such, and we intend to continue to be so. That is why I believe that the issue of veto, a number of months before negotiations have started and perhaps two years before they are concluded, is too early. If we get there, we won't hesitate about it. But our task now is to be constructive and ensure the best possible end result for Sweden.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-732	Mr President, I would like to When, just over a year ago, we had the discussion about Brexit as the most alive even in Sweden, the government did not even want to admit that Sweden's net risk would increase upon a British withdrawal. It is, of course, fashionable that the government now realises the fact and does not duck on this issue. I don't see any problem at all in discussing, at this point, two years before Brexit, that Sweden should put a lot of pressure on it. If there is a right of veto, it should also be able to be used, and Sweden is constantly being overrun in these matters. Countries such as Norway, Switzerland and the United Kingdom will do just fine without membership of the United States of Europe, and Sweden should also raise the issue of exit. Sweden's net fee will be abolished. We should not be net donors at all in the short term, and we must use the right of veto in these discussions. I really think that Stefan Löfven should mention that.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-735	Mr President, I would like to As far as Brexit is concerned and what the fee will be after it, we do not know, and in fact Pavel Gamov does not know that either. It's a little early to talk about it. What we are going to negotiate now is what will be the next fee, so that negotiation remains. Pavel Gamov took Norway as an example. Norway is actually paying, so taking it as a parade example is perhaps not so good. On the other hand, Norway is not part of the decision-making congregations. There's Sweden, too. I stand by the clear view that EU cooperation is good for Sweden. That's why we're in. We will be constructive and contribute. If we were to end up in a situation that is not sustainable, it is clear that we should use the right of veto. But we will first see what will be the final result for Sweden, and we will do the best possible for our country.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-739	Mr President, I would like to Culture for All is the report that we are now debating, Mr KrU5. I support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation No 1 under paragraph 1. The policy of the government base is certainly not culture for everyone, nor for the whole country. Through its proposals to the Riksdag over the last three years, cultural initiatives have been concentrated on Stockholm and the major actors. As we here in Stockholm feel during this fimbulvinter, which according to legend is supposed to last for three years – as long as the current government has been sitting – feel the small cinemas out in the country all the time: ostracized and near to destruction. Culture contributes, properly maintained, to deeper democracy and more jobs. New expressions are constantly added to our common cultural heritage and become a dynamic force in society. The Alliance has during its time built a new cultural policy that protects the intrinsic value of culture and its potential to contribute to all sectors of society. The distance of the arm should always be between culture and politics. We want to build on this common approach together. During the eight years of the alliance government, culture was added during a deep economic crisis of SEK 916 million. This represents a 2% increase, and it is unique under such conditions. Mr President, I would like to The first thing the current government did to culture was to evade the sector of SEK 2.3 billion when employers' contributions for young people were raised. This was a manslaughter battle. Despite this, the previous efforts of our alliance governments have proved robust against the attacks that the Green Party, the Social Democrats, the Left and the Swedish Democrats are constantly attempting. I will address certain aspects in this speech and know that my alliance friends will broaden and clarify the picture of the great differences in cultural policy. Mr President, I would like to Let me start with the museums. They are important to individuals and important to society in both democratic and economic terms. The museums are located all over Sweden and are different from each other, and unique collections are available in different places. There are museums that are central, most state. There are other government agencies, such as the Royal Courts and museums at colleges and universities. There are regional, local, private, foundation-owned and non-profit-driven museums. We have a fantastic flora of museums! There are close to 1,700 museums. Six thousand year-olds are employed and – listen, Mr President! – they have 26 1⁄2 million visitors each year. There are almost three visits per inhabitant. It's amazing! Then one might wonder how the government tackles this. The only thing they seem to be interested in is introducing free admission to a few state centrally located museums, such museums as those visited by tourists and middle-aged aunts like me. In spring 2017, the Government presented a Cultural Heritage Bill, Cultural Heritage Policy 2016/ 17:116, focusing on the 28 state museums with more than 8 million visitors. The government base seems completely uninterested in the breadth of the museum sector and lacks a policy for state museums to interact with the entire rest of Museisverige. The Alliance, unlike the government, sees diversity as a strength and asset that should be politically acknowledged. All museums carry a piece of Swedish cultural heritage, regardless of their principal, and contribute to deeper education, more jobs and greater growth. Cooperation between all Swedish museums should be encouraged. And the state, which is responsible for the major institutions, should and should be a driving force for long-term enhanced cooperation. It's the Alliance's policy. Mr President, I would like to Let me take another example, which is also very topical, of the government's notorious Stockholm fixation. I hope Birgit Nilsson is familiar. She was the world's largest dramatic opera soprano. She was supposed to be 100 years old this year. The government has given the Stockholm Opera a large extra grant for this. Other cultural institutions around the country that want to pay attention to this may do so from their own budget. Birgit was educated and sometimes active in Stockholm. But she was born in Båstad in Skåne, and here you prioritise large sets but without extra state support. La Nilsson, as she was called, pulled full houses in Scandinavium in Gothenburg in the 1970s with sets of Aida and Turandot. She was also the godmother of the Gothenburg Opera, which the Committee on Culture will visit this weekend, and often visited Wagner premieres in particular. On her birthday on May 17th, a tribute concert will be held, which will probably get the roof to lift – but without state support. Sadly, but so typical of this government. Mr President, I would like to I mentioned briefly in my introduction the consequences of the government's film policy for the country cinemas. This year we have already heard of two closures of cinemas, and this will continue with this policy, which Parliament has clearly reacted to in seven announcements that the government has not yet delivered in full. Key economic figures for the first year of this dangerous film policy show that the government has increased the tax burden of cinemas by SEK 117 million. This money is not going to produce new films, and where they go no one knows. The government representatives in this debate can well give information on what they are to be used for. Mr President, I would like to Another area is culture and health, where the current government is completely uninterested. During the alliance years, initiatives for better rehabilitation around the country were encouraged. Among other things, Skåne and Jönköping introduced the possibility of printing culture on prescriptions. Fortunately, there are regions that are not S-controlled, and in Västra Götaland the opportunity is now being introduced for sick people to get help from culture in their recovery. Mr President, I would like to Let me conclude with another example, the model of cultural cooperation. It applies everywhere except in Stockholm, and that is perhaps why the government is trying to push this important reform in mind by using tax credits directly to libraries, cultural schools and many others to bypass the discussions between the state, regions and municipalities of the cultural cooperation model. If it is a conscious choice to dismantle the model of cultural cooperation or not, we may be able to find an answer in this debate. The People and Culture Conference a few weeks ago asked whether there are any major differences in cultural policy. I believe that in this speech I have made clear some of the great differences that exist, and I can see that Sweden also needs an alliance policy in the field of culture.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-759	Mr President, I would like to I support SD's reservations 12 and 16. We support all of our reservations but choose for time winning to claim only the approval of these two. The report we are debating is called Culture for All. It has many meanings: a diverse range for all groups and interests, cultural cohesion or access and accessibility to cultural cultivation and education throughout the country. In several questions we deal with, such as access to cinemas, this is asked at its head. SD is one of the few parties that have really committed themselves to the issues and forged political proposals to tackle both access to cinemas and the lack of study, peace of mind and literary progress at the Swedish library. The latter concerns our will to protect libraries from mess, threats and violence. Not so long ago this was nonexistent, but today it is increasingly common in more and more parts of our elongated country. Reports of how silence and study have been replaced by noisy disorder of order and even attacks and abuse on both librarians and visitors reach us continuously. In the end, we may be refined, but we will refrain from that. The Swedish Democrats will never accept a development where some are allowed to wrangle freely and overturn the ideals of education and where culture is no longer for everyone but only for those who scream the loudest and rage the worst. Therefore, our discussions with stakeholders and the library exercise we are discussing today aim to recreate the temples of knowledge and study with which the library environments have always been synonymous. The other parties refer in the committee's comments to the fact that it is the library's principals, not infrequently the municipality, school or university, who are responsible for the work environment, and it is assumed that measures are taken. True, that is correct, but do all principals take action? Can they? Do they dare? Do they have the resources to do that? It varies tremendously, of course. Had there been isolated cases in isolated places, the argumentation could have kept all the way. But now that we see a trend across the nation, it is perfectly reasonable to get involved at national level. The majority of committees recognise the problem, look at it with concern and will carefully follow developments. That's good. In this case, there is agreement, and the step towards an announcement in line with the Swedish democrats' request should hopefully not be far away. Mr President, I would like to How is it that many other countries attract film companies to place film production in the country? How can you win the battle as a nation for major film productions? What can Sweden do to increase its attractiveness as a recording country? The answer to these questions is production incentives. A region and a local community have much to gain from having film production located in the area in question. Hotel and restaurant business benefits, retail and tourist destinations as well. The number of jobs can increase and local communities can flourish. This is something many countries have recognised the importance of and thus introduced production incentives such as tax incentives for the film industry – reliefs that are basically self-financed. Norway, Iceland and several other European countries have, but Sweden has been in the wake for many years because we lack this incentive and lubricant. We should have it. Therefore, SD raised the question in the Riksdag in 2015 and has since driven it, initially alone. But now the winds have turned around or the incentive in the Riksdag, and in 2016 the Riksdag addressed an announcement to the government to investigate the possibilities for introducing production incentives. In 2016, the Swedish Agency for Growth was commissioned to investigate this together with the Swedish Film Institute, and in December 2017 it was reported in the report More film recordings to Sweden. The report proposes the introduction of a State incentive in the form of a production discount of at least 25% to companies. The report is currently being prepared within the Government Office. We can only exclaim, finally, and I would urge the government to act quickly as we lose positions and recordings every year because we lack this incentive. It is extremely regrettable because we do not lack magnificent recording environments. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the other parties and committee colleagues for having recognised the importance of the issue since it was raised. Finally, let me go from the big to the small or from the near to the far, depending on how you want to see it. Making our culture and cultural heritage accessible and visible is also for us Swedish democrats about paying attention to the threads of our collective historical roots that run across national borders and show the strength and connections of Swedish cultural identity. For example, the closest we have Estonia, where a Swedish minority lived and was strong despite geographical distance to their home country and a difficult soil to grow in on the spot. Farther away we have the Swedish communities in North America where one can still experience a vibrant Swedish culture. Even further away, and to a large extent more forgotten, we have emigrants to South America and then mainly Argentina where local names and linguistic tracks still testify to Swedish history and presence. Between 1890 and 1910 several thousand Swedes emigrated to South America, preferably to Brazil. With difficult conditions and hardships, many became victims of disease, epidemics and poverty, while a few hundred returned to Sweden. Some thousands moved on to Argentina. This category of emigrants is almost completely unknown to the common man in Sweden, but the fact is that even today there is still a Swedish-speaking population in the province, where they formed the colony Villa Svea or Ober á, as the city is called today. This group of Swedish descendants should be noted, and it should be reviewed how the public could be informed about their history. This could be done by means of a mission to the Institute for Language and People's Memories. Similarly, we would like to commission the Institute to inventory and make visible Finnish and Estonian heritage. This is our call and an issue that we will be able to raise and pursue in a broader perspective in the future.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-777	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by supporting the joint reservations of all the Centre Party and the Alliance, but I choose here to apply only for reservations 2 and 17. Mr President, I would like to In the Center Party's vision, everyone, regardless of their place of residence, background, disability or life situation, has the opportunity to participate in cultural life that includes both professional culture and amateur creation. Sweden is becoming an increasingly multicultural country, and this creates new opportunities. Culture strengthens self-confidence and makes more people take advantage of freedom of expression. This in turn strengthens participation and democracy in our society. In the Center Party we see how culture contributes to a deeper, humane and more open society. When we meet, share experiences and reflect together, we are also better equipped to meet the challenges around us. We do not want Sweden to risk being split up by reducing the conditions for a good life in smaller towns. That is why we have fought against the increase in VAT on cinema tickets that threaten many cinemas and the culture that they offer. The VAT on the cinema ticket must be restored, but during the time it takes to do so, the effects of the increase must be rapidly slowed down. The Government's 25 million to investment aid for cinemas in smaller towns is completely misdirected and has absolutely no effect. We see this now that the cinema in Gagnef has been forced to close. More will follow. Instead, from the Center Party, we want to use this money directly for rural cinemas via the cultural cooperation model. For it is in the municipalities that you see the effects of government policy and understand how they can be alleviated, not at the Swedish Film Institute at Gärdet in Stockholm. For us, it is clear that priority is given to a close and accessible cultural life throughout the country in front of free admission at state museums, which are mainly located in Stockholm. Cinemas in smaller towns mean more to cultural life in these places than just a place to watch movies. They are an important part of a cultural infrastructure that provides access to a broad cultural life throughout the country. Mr President, I would like to There are many non-profit forces that engage in the close, local cultural life. In order for culture to become more accessible to everyone, it needs to be close. It is often in the rural courtyards and at Folket Hus and Our Farms that the culture thrives. That's why we in the Center Party are investing in meeting places throughout the country – in smaller towns as well as in remote areas. These are places for both touring cultural activities as well as own creation and activities arranged by non-profit forces. Cultural events and commitment to culture are often created in collaboration with the educational associations of peoples. The culture created by regional and local actors has a great opportunity to be accessible and to reach new visitors and participants. We therefore want to review the model of cultural cooperation so that regions have more influence on how national resources can be used even better throughout the country. We also want to establish, within the framework of the cultural cooperation model, a national Capital of Culture year, where smaller cities and municipalities also have the chance to get the spotlight on themselves. With digital technology, much culture and knowledge has become available to many more. It has become easier to spread culture, and the opportunity for participation is now greater than ever. The digital society has become a major part of our everyday lives. This is seen not least with new broad cultural forms such as computer games, the Swedish music that is spread and appreciated almost all over the world and opportunities to see performances made on another continent in the district yard or the local cinema, as long as it remains. With the opportunities offered by digitalisation, more people are also able to find an expression that suits them. With creativity we grow as individuals but also as a society. The opportunity to both take part in culture and create through digital technology must be better taken into account. We do not know today what new cultural expressions will emerge as technology develops. An open public approach is therefore needed so that young people's activities on the Internet can also be properly supported. At the same time, we also see in traditional culture, such as opera and classical theatre, how performances develop to take place in the digital display window. Mr President, I would like to In the Center Party we know that creativity thrives in freedom. For us, the principle of arm's length distance between the culture created by public funds and the political level is absolutely central. Artistic freedom contrasts with government and other public sector governance. At the same time, culture and its meeting places contribute to creative locations and regions in which people want to visit, live and work. But the central thing is that culture is a free meeting place where we can socialize, create, rejoice, worry, be surprised and make new acquaintances. It is a place for real integration between people of different origins, backgrounds and life situations, a place where everyone can take part in and participate in culture, which, in addition to enriching life, also contributes to participation and a society that holds together. That is why, Mr President, culture is so important to the Center Party.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-791	Mr President, I would like to The title of the report we are debating today, Culture for All, could be taken from the Left Party election platform. Culture for all, not just a few, is one of the headlines there and a clear focus for us. That is why there are also a number of proposals from the Left Party in the documents on the table of the House today. I support all our reservations, but today I am only calling for Amendment No 19. The cultural policy objectives state that everyone should have the opportunity to participate in cultural life. This means, among other things, that gender, disability, class, background or place of residence should not be an obstacle to participation in cultural life. One way to get an indication of whether everyone really has the opportunity to participate in cultural life is to investigate who is participating today and whether this differs between different groups in society and between different cultural activities. We have an authority that does this for us – it's perfect. The Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis writes in its report on cultural habits from 2017 that women, young people and people living in cities are more involved and active in cultural life compared to men, older people and people living in rural areas. Social origin, acquired class and income affect the extent to which people participate in cultural life. For most of us this is not news, but it is important that we get it black and white in the report. It turns out that the higher education we have, the more culturally active we are. That is why there are clear links between the work we are doing and what is happening in the Committee on Culture. Equal opportunities for culture does not mean that culture needs to be equal throughout the country, that it should be the same offer everywhere. It is perfectly possible to imagine that there is a variation in supply and cultural habits without losing our ambition and the intentions of cultural policy on equal opportunities. It's not a homogenous culture we want. A certain regional variation or differences between the cultural habits of different groups is not in itself a problem or something strange as long as all citizens have the opportunity to participate. Those underrepresented in today's cultural life will also be less involved in the process in which we jointly shape our cultural heritage over time. This therefore also affects that part. The thresholds for the costs of, for example, going to the cultural school or visiting a museum or how far it is to the nearest library can be relatively easily changed by means of cultural policy and the priorities that are being set. The current term of office of the Left Party through negotiations with the government on the state budget has contributed to the removal of entry to state museums, the lowering of the cultural school fee and the implementation of a comprehensive effort to increase access to libraries. So far we have the tools. When it comes to influencing cultural habits related to social patterns and mechanisms, it is difficult to change only with the help of cultural policy tools. The report from Cultural Analysis that I mentioned earlier underlines the central role of the school and education for everyone's opportunity to participate in fun tours. It can be about how well the school integrates professionally produced culture into its operations. But it can also be about the content of the school. Among other things, the aesthetic topics and efforts to increase reading comprehension are important parts. The role of study and career counselors and how they can encourage students to break social patterns and to dare to seek new educational pathways is also part of how we can broaden recruitment to artistic education in the future. On these issues, we will come back with motions in reports later this spring. Nevertheless, I would like to mention it in this context. In the cultural policy preparatory work, the goal of everyone's ability to participate is strongly linked to geographical accessibility. This will orientation forms the basis for the cultural infrastructure we can see that we have in the country with public libraries, county theatres, county music and county museums. The recent follow-up to the cultural policy objectives shows, as I said, that it matters where in the country we live. The cultural expenditure of municipalities and regions has increased. There have been bets, but different amounts. Access to cultural schools and libraries, for example, varies in the country. It is mainly residents of larger cities and those living in the most favorable conditions who take part in professional performing arts and artistic culture. The difference between the city and the country at large applies especially to culture that requires physical presence – concert visits and theatre visits. Of course, that goes without saying. When it comes to accessible culture and culture that can be experienced and created at home, the differences are of course smaller. In this context, I would like to highlight our exercise, which is about exploiting the opportunities of digitalisation. It is an important piece of the puzzle in this context. Part of creating opportunities to participate in cultural activities is of course also about what conditions we have for the professionally active cultural creators. They are the ones who should stand for much of what we are asking for. The working and living conditions of the creators of culture are, of course, important today, but also for the children we are now encouraging to attend our cultural schools and take part in the activities offered. What is their future labour market? Now that we encourage them to attend these courses and read the aesthetic subjects that come back to upper secondary school, it is reasonable that they also have the opportunity to work in the cultural sector in the future. The Left Party has been pushing for a long time to strengthen the conditions for professional cultural creators. It must be possible to live off their cultural creation under reasonable conditions. It is a question of compensation, of complying with the MU agreement, of allowing the creators of culture to have permanent employment in cultural institutions and of adapting social security to the reality in which the creators of culture live and that there is no other fantasy. This should be adapted to the situation of the freelancers today. We look forward to the major investigation on these issues and are not making any new proposals in this area today. On the other hand, we have a rather comprehensive proposal for art sales. When art increases in value and is traded for higher prices, we think it is a constructive and economically sensible idea that this value creation in the commercial art market can go back as investments to contemporary artists and help facilitate new art production and ensure diversity and future value creation in the art market. We have been looking a little bit at how you have worked in Norway since 1948 with a model with an art fee associated with the resale right. The aim is for the artist and the artist's relatives to be entitled to part of the increase in value when works of art are resold. It has a fund that will primarily give an income and pension to older artists and the families of deceased artists. It is still the case in Norway that a large part of this fund's assets go to artists over 60 years of age but also to work grants to young artists, start-up support, project support and various art prizes as a positive element. This has actually been looked at in Sweden before. As early as 1996, the government set up an investigation to look at a regulatory system similar to the Norwegian one. A report was presented entitled A Foundation for Young Artists. We regret that this did not happen in Sweden. We would like to highlight this issue again, so that we can get an art fund like the one in Norway but based on Swedish conditions. This is currently an under-funded industry, and this could ensure good regrowth of contemporary art. It also benefits the art trade in the long term. That is why I am choosing to highlight reservation 19 today.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-814	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting to hear about the conclusions of the Cultural Analysis Report. Vasiliki Tsouplaki mentions that men and residents in rural areas are less culturally active. But how can she explain free entrance to Stockholm Museums? It's us, middle-aged ladies, who get to take part in this. What are your suggestions for how men and residents in rural areas will be given more access to culture when you strangle the cinemas? Already this year, two country cinemas have been shut down because of the film policy that you are behind. I asked a question about the cultural cooperation model. As Vasiliki Tsouplaki mentioned in his speech that you should have direct funding for libraries, cultural schools and more and go around the model of cultural cooperation, I wonder if Vasiliki Tsouplaki and Left are aware that you are lowering the model of cultural cooperation. But perhaps that is what you want, so that all parts of the country will be like Stockholm, which is not part of the cultural cooperation model. You've had a congress. I wonder what happened to the ban on running private public libraries. Was it a ban, and what about the folk library in Hällefors that has been run since 1997? Are you going to close it? Should people in this place not have the possibility of a library?
i-ead9d8c281795c87-817	Mr President, I would like to There were many different questions. I will begin with the question of how we view free admission to state museums. We see that these museums are our common cultural heritage. That's the basis we want free entrance, not where in the country they're located. We want as many people as possible to be able to take part in it. School classes from all over the country can visit these museums when they are visiting. They come to Parliament, and they go to the various museums. This is a more fundamental question of how we should view our common cultural heritage. We want it to be available to as many people as possible. When it comes to the cultural cooperation model, I feel a little bit that attacks are best defenses from Cecilia Magnusson. But you have actually cut back on the funding of the cultural cooperation model. The 2015 budget reduced appropriations. Then we had to raise them again when our budget went through. I don't know if there's a difference of 1.2 or 1.5 billion between our budget options. I don't remember the numbers exactly. Maybe Cecilia Magnusson can answer that later. The total determines what opportunities we have for cultural initiatives. Just lifting out the part she is now raising, that is, how we finance libraries and cultural schools, is a small part. But it's a big bet on those parts. After all, you have no initiative, not in the model of cultural cooperation either, in terms of museums or what it might be at regional level. If you look at the total, we have more resources for all parts of our culture. I feel a little bit that attacks are the best defense, Cecilia Magnusson. You don't really have much on your feet.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-820	Mr President, I would like to I didn't get an answer about banning private-run public libraries. I hope that I will receive answers in the next speech. Then there is our common cultural heritage. We have 1,700 museums, and you prioritise 28 centrally located museums. What is the way to spread culture throughout the country? How many school classes can come here to Stockholm? I'm from Gothenburg. It is a fairly large city, but not many classes can get here to go to the free open museums. Of course, the schools around Stockholm can do this, but not the schools throughout the country. It's for a few, not for the many. Should I have to inform Vasiliki Tsouplaki that the 2015 budget was an alliance budget? If you're going to move with numbers, you can actually move honestly and correctly. It's in the details that the devil sits. I wonder if Vasiliki Tsouplaki can answer me: Are you about to run the cultural cooperation model in mind, or are you prepared to stand up for that model, which has done so much to allow culture to take more place throughout the country? Give us a message today so we can work along with it!
i-ead9d8c281795c87-824	Mr President, I would like to Maybe I wasn't clear. The reason I mentioned the cuts in 2015 was because it was your budget that went through. Then you reduced the funding for the cultural cooperation model. That's what I have in my memory. I am new to the committee, so I may have confused the figures, but I am quite sure that was the case. What I want to say is that the compensation in the cultural cooperation model is directly linked to the regional museums. Do you, as you say, want free admission in more places in the country? That's what the Left Party wants. We also see what it's like where we're in control. For example, in my county, Region Västmanland, we have free entrance to our county museum. And in the municipality that I have been active in, Västerås, we have free admission to the art museum. It is possible, if you have the political will, to do so throughout the country and to invest those resources. But the cultural cooperation model is, in my opinion, a good model, and we want to strengthen it. There should be no doubt about it. You did not really answer the question about the difference between our budgets, Cecilia Magnusson, how much it is about. But there is a big difference between how much you and how much the Left Party, together with the government, spends on culture. I think it is important to emphasise this. Then you want to raise details in different parts that we raised at our congress, for example. We see it kind of like when you talk about the law on emergency hospitals. We want to look at how we can ensure that we keep public libraries. These are democratic meeting places that we want to continue to be everyone's living room. These are meeting places, which I talked about earlier, which are part of the cultural infrastructure that we want to be under democratic control. It's supposed to be a popular influence, and it's supposed to be part of the welfare.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-828	Mr President, I would like to Outside this House there is an important and difficult debate on political governance of culture. I think it is an incredibly important debate: to think about how politics should govern Swedish culture. This is because we find it so difficult to think away from the power of culture, especially we politicians who like culture. We would like to believe that anyone who reads Atwood or Shakespeare or looks at Lemhagen or Bergman becomes a better person, who is more developed and who has wiser thoughts. We want so much to contribute to the right way of thinking and to people developing in the right direction, what we think is the right direction. But it is not the literature's job to make us better people. It is not art that should stop us from flying, and it is not the performing arts that should stop us bullying each other. Nor is it the main task of filmmakers to combat racism. Yet we cannot abandon the hope that this will happen after all – and sometimes it actually does. Culture has the capacity to develop people, and it happens a little bit of itself without politics doing so much. Then we politicians want to speed up progress. We try to steer a bit in the direction that we think is important. We try to excuse ourselves: Yes, but what we want is not so bad, for we think it is good. But then you forget two things, I think. There may be someone after us who does not want good and who then uses the ability to influence the culture that we have used for the good. But it is also about the fact that the viable seed of thought is often not what is deliberately planted by someone else. Anyone who really tries to influence someone else with culture can rather face a backlash that leads in a completely different direction from what was intended. Cultural policy that aims to change people is very difficult, and it is very nice that it is difficult to influence people's thinking through cultural policy. Mr President, I would like to Liberal cultural policy is about the education-hungry person. It is no coincidence that liberals have always been involved in school politics. It's about people meeting new knowledge and new worlds and seeing things they haven't seen before. It is about being introduced into a whole new world, about being able to think and being able to dream about things you didn't know you could dream of. For the same reason, liberals are involved in culture and cultural policy. Once you have left school and found the new knowledge and the new worlds, culture somehow takes on board. This is where you find the opportunity to further develop your knowledge or to find new dreams or new worlds that you can live in. It is also about the realisation of thoughts. It is not only about the ability to find new worlds, but also about obtaining the knowledge and tools needed to enter those worlds, if you like. The point is that you should see many new possibilities, but you should not be forced to go there unless you feel like it yourself. Mr President, I would like to I think that education is something that Swedish politics needs to focus on again, because we have two main issues that man has always thought about and that man needs to think about even more in the future. The questions are, who am I, and who are we? One thing that facilitates your ability to think deeply about this is to meet qualified culture that makes you see things that you have not seen before. That is why, Mr President, we have a reservation that the cultural institutions should reach more, that culture should reach more and that quality culture should reach more. That is why we also have a reservation that libraries must be safe. Libraries are a place for education. It's a place for people who want to read. It's a place for young people who don't have a chance to do their homework at home. Rather, they can sit there in peace and quiet doing their schoolwork. Libraries are a place for education, not for pranks. Therefore, libraries must be able to shut down those who do not behave in libraries. I think the Library Act should be tightened up in this area. Mr President, I would like to Liberal cultural policy is also about the creative person. It's about looking for new expressions, answering questions that you didn't know could be asked and giving new answers to old questions. It is about questioning old truths and having the freedom to express oneself about things that others find difficult to express themselves about. It is essential to consolidate and strengthen the freedom of expression on which culture is based. The risk of self-censorship must be counteracted. It is important that people can say what they want to say. Calls must be made even if they are difficult conversations. We need, I believe, a more reasoning and permissive conversation in Sweden. There you also realize that sometimes people do wrong and think wrong. Then you have the ability to reason on this, and then I also think that education is central. The international dialogue, in which culture is involved and in which cultural creators are involved, is an important part of this. Therefore, the Liberals have a reservation to expand the exchange with the rest of the world. Mr President, I would like to Together, the creative and educational man creates something that I would call the intellectual infrastructure of society. In the world in which we live today, I believe that safeguarding this intellectual infrastructure is a crucial task for politicians. The lack of education and the populism that is spreading in Europe, in the world and also in Sweden, the anti-liberal currents that question people's right to be themselves and surprise their environment – all of this means that we need to strengthen the intellectual infrastructure that culture actually contributes to creating. Mr President, I would like to I really believe that cultural policy needs a central objective, and that is to emphasise quality and that more people should meet quality. That is why our cultural policy exercise looks like it does. I therefore urge you, Mr President, to accept reservation 13 on safe libraries.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-842	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to endorse Amendment No 3 and support all the alliance reservations. I was going to take the political freedom to continue the discussion by challenging the very title of this report: culture for all. Or any more culture to more, as the government and Minister for Culture Alice Bah Kuhnke put it. I have worked as a teacher for many years and followed many students and seen their different conditions, both economically and socially. Before I entered the Riksdag, I worked ten years in Gothenburg's rescue mission with homelessness. There I met them as Mother Teresa called the poorest of the poor — the homeless. Of course, there were also many children in this context. They had very little of cultural experiences. They lived in another world, among the economically vulnerable. I may not be in the right decimal place, but about a quarter of a million children, i.e. around 250 000 children, live in families with income below the limit defined by the EU as poverty. The most vulnerable are children of foreign origin, children of some urban suburbs, children of single parents and children of young parents. They often have very little of cultural experiences. They live in a world of poverty. This is part of the truth about Sweden today. Perhaps when the offer to play instruments in the cultural school comes in paper form, the letter is hidden away by the parents because you do not have the money to pay the fee. Mr President, I would like to Then there is the other world, that is, those who live in a cultural exchange and who influence their children to go to concerts, start playing instruments themselves, painting or dancing. I myself am in a family where my two sons and their respective players play instruments and also teach in it. Culture can be so much, and the children living in this context often live a more culturally prosperous life. So we have another dimension: the elitist. We distinguish between elitist and professional. Professionals are people who through knowledge, talent and practice become professional practitioners on an instrument, dancer or other. What does elitist mean? This is what a digital encyclopedia says: 中 Elitism is a belief in or an attitude towards an elite. This elite is considered by advocates to have better opinions that should be taken more seriously, or considered to be the only ones fit as leaders. In a society governed by elitism, this group receives a special position or privileges in the group, as opposed to the majority of the people who do not have the abilities or the ability to live up to the demands. –– – The people who indulge in cultural elitism are known as collectives as cultural elites. ..................................................... It is, of course, at hand to shake life into the splendor of the former party leaders of the Christian Democrats in Almedalen about the people of reality. There are miles between the cultural elite and the people of reality, but it is an abyss between the cultural elite and the poor. Possibly the government side is captured by the cultural elite. The description in Aftonbladet of the Minister for Culture, the Minister for Diamonds, becomes quite apt in this context. It's not pretty, but I think it's pretty apt. I am convinced that the government, led by the Minister for the Environment, has absolutely wonderful contacts with the cultural elite, but what are you doing in the government – social democrats and environmental partners supported by the Left Party – for the poor children and their opportunities for culture? Free admission for everyone, not only for children, to state museums, most of which are located in Stockholm – it is no wonder that this is one of the finance ministers and stockholmaren Magdalena Andersson's favorite reforms. It is good for those who used to go to museums and who now do not have to pay for themselves. It is good for tourists who visit and go in for free. It's good for all kids, unless they want to see a special show. Then it'll be paid. Instead, the Alliance government allowed children and young people to attend all exhibitions throughout the country free of charge in the museums that the state manages. I also lack government intervention in reaching the most economically vulnerable. Those are beautiful words and many promises here and there. The Minister of Culture goes around, and sweet bags are offered virtually everywhere. There are 350 million discounts for the purchase of electric bicycles, but what is done for the most vulnerable children? Mr President, I would like to It is quite symbolic that the left-wing government has removed the leisure money introduced by the Alliance. It was a money of SEK 3 000 for children who live in financial vulnerability. We've had it up here earlier today. If you are in classes 4 to 9 and have lived with income support six months in the last twelve months, you will have the opportunity to receive a grant for the tuition fee at the cultural school, the membership fee of a sports club or similar. We want to introduce this money again by the Christian Democrats when we hopefully change the government after 9 September. I don't know what's going on with the free time money. But I think it hurts a little bit in some people on the government side who think this isn't really bad. I've heard someone say this, and I think it's actually the case that the drops are eroding the stone. Eventually we may even come to a consensus on this. The government has the power, and you have the money. You've raised 64 taxes, you're in charge of the country and you're making proposals to Parliament. You have a very big responsibility in this. Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats believe that cultural policy is important, and we have a policy for all aspects of culture. What I have tried to show with my reasoning is that the most economically and socially vulnerable children, those who really need our support, still live outside the cultural contexts that are so important for every child's development and maturity and for every human being. We must help to make the world better for these children and families. Fundamental from a cultural perspective is that girls and boys throughout their childhood should have access to cultural activities where they themselves are co-creative.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-862	Mr President, I would like to There is much to be said after listening to the debate, but I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the KrU5 report and therefore rejecting all reservations. Culture should be for everyone. Culture is for everyone throughout the country. Culture should embrace and generate inspiration and new ideas. Culture should be there to feel good, create new solutions and provide new opportunities. But culture will also help create new jobs. Culture will give us a moment to escape today's tough challenges and just feel good. We have a budget for 2018 with historically large investments in, among other things, security, welfare and jobs. The budget includes reforms for SEK 40 billion. It's $40 billion that's going to come to everyone's attention. Together with investments in security and education, culture is what creates a society where people are allowed to make class trips, dream of a bigger future and feel that they have a place in the world. The Culture Budget for 2018 includes a historic investment of an additional SEK 745 million. Added to this is public education and sport. During our term of office, we have increased the cultural budget by 11⁄2 billion. There is a lot of money spent on culture. The split bourgeois opposition that we have listened to here is making great cuts and not the same efforts on the cultural side – in favour of tax cuts. Our cultural initiative has children and young people in focus, but it also includes investments in artists, cultural workers, culture throughout the country and culture for all. This is done with freedom of expression and democracy as a fundamental element. Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats believe that all people should have the right and the opportunity to take part in culture and also to practise culture. We see culture as a strong force that helps to create meaning with life and cohesion – welding together – in our society. It is also of great importance to our health and well - being. Culture is really part of our community-building. The Swedish model of our welfare building is based on the fact that you can realize your dreams regardless of your background. Here language is often the key and literature that makes the world richer and more understandable to us humans. Reading and writing are important in many different ways. Reading broadens our views and contributes to our development. The fact that adults read to children, and that children and young people have good access to books no matter where they live in the country, is very important for them to get a good start in life. The world of literature and languages should be open to all people, regardless of their background. That's why libraries have never been as important as they are now. It is so gratifying that the government is investing another SEK 275 million in libraries so that everyone will have equal opportunities to develop their reading. We Social Democrats also want to reduce the digital divide. We have taken the initiative. Libraries also play an important role in digitalisation. But we also see in digitalisation how it is possible to create great opportunities to make culture available throughout the country. We have taken the initiative, redoed and made sure that the investment in digital broadcasting from our national scenes, Operan, Dramaten and Riksteatern, is a good investment. They reach out to more people throughout the country. That's where we're in complete agreement. Culture and health are also mentioned in the report. I recall the visit of the Culture Committee to Östersund and Östersund Football Club. Amazing successes throughout Football Europe can also be linked to the club's and team's cultural activities. It's amazing to see. When we in the Committee on Culture take note of such experience, we believe that it is important to take advantage of the research that exists on the subject of culture and health in the formulation of future cultural policy. We should not have less culture, but we should have more culture for more – hence a very strong cultural budget. The cultural co-operation model is an important and appreciated cultural reform carried out by the bourgeois Alliance, although knowledge within the Moderates today may leave more to be desired. We have added additional funds to the cultural cooperation model. It gives effect in our municipalities and county councils. So the whole country can take part in culture. However, it is important that we monitor developments closely because regional variation is great. An important element highlighted by the evaluation group is the dialogue between the national level and the regional level. It should be further developed and maintained. Mr President, I would like to In times when many countries restrict free artists, independence and freedom of expression, it is important to show that we in Sweden want to promote and protect free art. The effort of 115 million to improve the conditions for free art through a reinforcement directly to the artists, to the innovative projects of Kulturbryggan, to free groups, artistic design of our common environment and increased support for literature and cultural journals is a way of supporting free art. We Social Democrats are convinced that culture is important for increasing cohesion, for reducing disparities and for our well-being. It is therefore important for us that more people should have access to art, culture and education. We are doing this to create a more equal society. Mr President, I would like to With the closing words, I call for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for reservations to be rejected because all those proposals have been met.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-877	Mr. Talmman! It is interesting to hear the S ocial democrats. I hardly believe that the other government party, the Green Party or the Left, which forms the basis of government, was mentioned in the speech. But we don't need to talk about that anymore. I have some concrete questions that I raised in my speech and that Agneta Gille could prepare for. Among other things, I mentioned the SEK 117 million in higher tax revenue that you have imposed on cinemas during the year of your dangerous film policy. What's that money going to do? Are they going to cultural ventures, or are they going into the black hole? I took part in a film policy discussion in January where Niclas Malmberg said that he and the government are not satisfied with 25% VAT on films but that they can imagine 25% in the whole area of culture. Are the S ocial democrats behind the view expressed by Niclas Malmberg – and the Ministry of Culture – in the film agreements? There is no cultural collaboration model in Stockholm. But do you want to, by directly transferring efforts, undermine the model of cultural cooperation? Why do we not get any answers to those questions? There is also the question of a policy for all museums, not just for the 28 state museums contained in the cultural heritage bill. Give us an answer! When will a policy for everyone across the country come?
i-ead9d8c281795c87-882	Mr President, I would like to This is interesting to hear. I do not believe that throwing as many throws as possible into the debate on culture will do any good. We will try to have a calm debate and dialogue. When it comes to cinema VAT, we also feel that we are following this closely. We are looking at the closure of cinemas, for which I think the Center Party describes the concerns in a good way. We follow that concern, but what we can see is actually that cinemas in the countryside were also closed down long before the cinema VAT came. So there are both. That's why we've been sending money so that there's another 25 million to strengthen and try to make sure we get cinemas all over the country. Something that is interesting and makes me happy to see when I am out at the summer house is that in Östhammar it is a new private owner who wants to open a cinema. There are also such things, so we get, so to speak, both give and take. There is a possibility that it also opens cinemas. I find that interesting. As far as VAT increases are concerned, there are parties on the alliance side that are pushing for VAT increases that I find a little scary. But we should not have to worry about the Social Democrats raising VAT there. There's a lot of parts in this. The most interesting thing is why the Moderates spend 1.2 billion less on culture – 1.2 billion less because they do not have enough money to distribute to culture. They go to tax cuts, and then they go to tax cuts to those who are in the best and have the most. I would like an answer to that.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-888	Mr President, I would like to Unlike Agneta Gille, I'll answer the question. We have spent all our years in opposition, as we did in the majority. But Agneta Gille and the government base withdrew SEK 2.3 billion from the cultural sector when you took office, when you raised the employers' contribution for young people, so you have many billion left to raise if we are to restore the conditions in the cultural sector. However, Agneta Gille does not answer the question of the SEK 117 million extra that the film area can now benefit from with the increased VAT. It is a concern that you follow. But we warned against this. We warned against the consequences of VAT. We warned that cinemas would be closed down. Agneta Gille! It's no worries. It's a reality. Already this year, two cinemas in the province have been closed down. How many more will be closed before you react and re-do what the Riksdag decided the government would do in the area of film? It's urgent! The cultural collaboration model – are you going to lower it? Or what are you doing when it comes to providing grants directly, beyond the model of cultural cooperation? What will come next, if you have your policy? No, this country also needs an alliance government in the field of cultural policy.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-893	Mr President, I would like to When we had an alliance government with a moderate Minister of Culture, the Minister of Culture told us in the Culture Committee that the biggest cultural effort that the Moderates and Alliance ever made in Sweden was to lower taxes, because then more money came to culture. I'm still wondering how that could be possible. It's so strange to me. But it is not alien to the Moderates, but they think that the greatest cultural effort is to lower taxes and remove opportunities for a well-being that works. Surely the film agreement was part of which we had to do something about. Are we going to continue in the movie deal? We were in complete agreement. We've contributed money, and Cecilia Magnusson knows that very well. I can show you black and white what's different in the budget. I've taken out what's on paper. It distinguishes incredibly large amounts, 1.2 billion, between our cultural budgets. That's a lot of money. In addition: The employer's contribution for young people, what was the result? Have we ever had youth unemployment as low as we have now? And did those young people work in the cultural sector? How much can you turn and turn in politics? I don't think that's the line. In the case of employers' contributions for young people, what was previously really a waste. Today, young people are coming to work, and culture is flourishing. Culture has gained more, and the collaborative model has gained more. We feel very pleased. I also sit on the Cultural Board in Uppsala, and we see how much resources are allocated. It feels very good, and I am very proud of our cultural policy.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-898	Mr President, I would like to Culture for all is not just the name of the report that we are debating now. Culture for All also very well sums up the Red-Green Government's cultural policy. All of them really mean everyone. No matter where in the country you live, regardless of economic conditions and regardless of functional variations, you should have access to culture – simply because access to culture is so crucial for us people to feel good, for us to develop and for us to understand ourselves and our surroundings. Cultural policy is now very positive, not least because we have the strongest cultural budget ever in Sweden. It was a sign in time that a few weeks ago Culture Sweden gathered for the first time in Folk och kultur with an extremely optimistic approach and a tremendous optimism that cultural policy will continue to deliver in the way that the Red-Green Government has now delivered through cultural policy. Of course, there are also major challenges. One of these is the difference in accessibility to culture between the city and the countryside. This is presented in the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis report, which was presented yesterday, which again points out that although accessibility to culture is generally improved, there are major differences between urban and rural residents. The commercial forces seem inexorably so that with less public support there are less opportunities to operate. That is why it is so important that public cultural policy directs specific resources to the smaller towns, to the rural areas. What we are doing in this year's budget is for the first time directing a state grant to libraries. During the year of the Alliance, we had a very bleak development: the closure of library branches around the country. We can now hopefully reverse that trend. Here one might think that the Center Party would applaud the government's efforts with state support to libraries precisely to increase access to libraries even in smaller towns. But the Center Party calls this government governance of cultural policy. Clearly, there are major flaws in Per Lodenius' argumentation. There are logical flaws in an argument that calls government governance to allocate resources to libraries and to the cultural school, but at the same time supports resources to the rural farms, where you have an interest yourself. Per Lodenius is happy to explain the logic of using different yardsticks depending on the appropriations involved. The allocation of resources to sectors where we know that resources are needed is not about controlling content. It's about creating the conditions. When I see how happy Oliver was when he was able to start playing guitar in the culture school already in year 2 and when I hear how Ebba shines up on the cultural school theatre stage I can say that the alliance parties try to explain away their lower ambition levels and try to come up with pretexts. They say that lower taxes should provide more accessibility to culture. You can cut taxes as much as you want-- there won't be any new libraries of it. There will be no cultural school of it. Without cultural creators and artists, however, there will be no culture to make available. That is why the situation of artists is also part of this report. Here, too, very positive things are happening. Agneta Gille mentioned the SEK 115 million that are now being directed at different artists in different ways. I will not repeat it, but I can add that the government has now also decided on a proposal for a resale right in order to thus also strengthen the situation of artists, so that artists really get compensation for secondary sales of art. In a few days' time, the report on artists' conditions will be submitted to a broad consultation. It will be very interesting to follow the referral. From the Green Party we have already taken a stand and want artists' scholarships to be pensionable. If you have received a work grant to be able to work with your art for one, two or five years, it is reasonable that during that time you also have social protection and that working time is also included on the day you retire. Now we will follow the referral, and on the basis of the result we will have reason to return with a proposal. Finally, I must also comment on Cecilia Magnusson's opening remarks. There were copious errors there. I will not point to them all, but I note that she says that there are now cold fimbultters. It's just that it's now 1 March. Fimbulvinter means that it is a winter-like summer, a very cold summer. It probably originates from a series of cold summers in the 500's. If you're using concepts, it's good to know the meaning of them. It's kind of like when the Moderate Leader talks about the cultural co-operation model. Have you Moderates now explained the meaning of the cultural co-operation model to the Moderate Leader? I support the committee's proposal.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-912	Mr President, I would like to The water conservation report is, of course, a recurring motion report, which means that many of the proposals put forward by the Moderates earlier in their term of office are now being simplified and are therefore not the subject of debate this evening. The Moderates have four reservations, which I naturally support, but in order to avoid being here all night, I would just like to explain the two to which we are calling for approval. This is about reservation 2, which we have together with the other alliance parties, and reservation 6, which we have together with the other alliance parties and the Left party. Mr President, I would like to With its 2,400 km long coastline, Sweden has one of Europe's longest coastlines. We are surrounded by the Baltic Sea in the east and south and by the Kattegat and the Skagerrak in the west. With lakes and rivers included, we have almost 38,000 miles of beaches. There is space for recreation, development and biodiversity. But our water is also under great pressure. The Baltic Sea's main environmental problem is eutrophication, which has a variety of consequences which are inherently problematic. But we also have a problem with marine litter, mainly on the west coast, where it flows ashore between 4 000 and 8 000 tonnes a year, mainly with the British islands as senders. Add to that that almost all water, from large lakes to smaller streams, exhibits traces of microplastic. These are complex problems. We do not yet know the extent of some of them, and we do not yet know everything about how they interact. Therefore, the challenge is to achieve the environmental objectives related to water – the goal of a non-toxic environment, the goal of living lakes and watercourses, the goal of a balanced sea and living coast and archipelago – something that feels far away. But the fact that it's hard isn't an excuse not to do anything. I am therefore pleased to come from a party that has, for a long time and in cooperation with other parties, given priority to issues relating to the sea and water. I will not give a full history lesson about what we have contributed to but can still mention the establishment of the Maritime and Water Authority, the funding of the Baltic Sea Action Plan and the establishment of Sweden's first marine national park in Kosterhavet. These are reforms I am pleased that we have implemented, but I also note that it will be a while before the full impact becomes clear. Mr President, I would like to Some things have also happened during this parliamentary term that are worth highlighting. I am thinking mainly of the completion of the new wastewater treatment plant in Kaliningrad, which started a number of years ago with support from Sida. For a long time, we were worried that that money was lost. Now, however, it is ready. Here Sweden has really made a big difference with limited funds. I want to explain why. In Kaliningrad, about 1 million people live. But with their old sewage treatment plant, they produced as much phosphorus leakage as an entire Sweden, which thus has 10 million inhabitants. In addition, figures and theses from Transparency International showed that residues of oil products were found in the water released. That level was about 1 000 times the Russian limit value. Nitrogen content in turn was about 50 times as high as allowed. The fact that this hole is now closed is beneficial for the entire Baltic Sea, and I am convinced that there are more projects like this, probably around the River Neva and in Poland, where Sweden can make great use of limited funds. But international cooperation such as the Baltic Sea Action Plan, Ospar, the Helsinki Convention and others is needed. Only when we interact with others can we take a concerted approach to the issues of the sea, water and fisheries, which concern us all. That is why I am in favour of reservation 2, in which the Alliance is developing its view on these issues. Mr President, I would like to The report also deals with proposals to promote the development of advanced water treatment. It is proposed to examine how advanced treatment can eventually be introduced at large treatment plants, where advanced treatment provides the greatest environmental benefit. This is important. High levels of drug substances in blue mussels have been found in the Baltic Sea, hormone preparations have been found that affect the sexual development of fish and diclofenac has been found that causes cell changes in rainbow trout. We stand for these additions. Substances that do not break down in the body simply end up in the drain. At present there are several techniques available, and if you combine them you reach almost complete purification. It is not only drug residues that are removed, but the purification also has side effects such as the elimination of microplastics and other unwanted substances. The Moderates have pointed out these problems in the past. In our 2018 budget, we committed almost 100 million more than the government in the area of marine and aquatic environment, and in addition, we invest more than twice as much as the government in environmental research. In the future, we will come up with more concrete proposals in the area of water purification, because we want it to be a particular priority, both at national and European level. This evening, however, we are delighted that a united committee supports this approach, to speed up considerably in the area of advanced water treatment. Mr President, I would like to There is much more to say about water management. It is probably because the problems are numerous, have varied causal relationships and can also be solved in different ways and at different political levels. It's complex matter. However, I would like to say that a great deal has been done, even though we are not yet in the finish line. For the government that wants to see living seas and watercourses and really wants to achieve the environmental objectives related to water, there is still a big job to do. These are effective national measures, a responsiblely funded environmental budget and international cooperation that has a holistic approach to water issues.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-927	Mr President, I would like to Water is of particular importance to our country. The coast of Sweden is 2,400 km long, which is one of Europe's longest. We also have some of Europe's largest lakes. Our larger cities are along the coast, and in Norrland the larger rivers define a large part of the cultural geography. After centuries of conflict, the coasts eventually came to define our borders. It can therefore be said that the waters define Sweden. It is also from the waters we have got transport routes, hydropower, fishing and recreation. The waters are an inalienable part of our country and an inheritance we have to manage. Water, of course, is also an environmental issue – clean air and clean water are perhaps what we should first think about when we hear the word. It is one of the most important tasks of the state to ensure that water does not carry poisons or diseases. When I say that we have an inheritance to manage, it is a matter of fact that Sweden's waters are known for their good quality. It has some geographical reasons, but it is also due to technical know-how and the fact that our predecessors in this House have actually taken these issues seriously. Mr President, I would like to While there is an understandable desire to do more, you sometimes end up wrong and create unreasonable consequences. We have the issue of individual sewers, where today we are in a potential multi-billion dollar roll for individual homeowners – with often questionable environmental benefits. It should be mentioned that research has shown that phosphorus emissions from individual households are often not a problem. Although it may be perceived emotionally as wrong to discharge water without modern purification, in this case on a small scale, it is often the case that the purification that occurs naturally in the soil is sufficient. It is also considered unreasonable that account should not be taken of the size of households and how the properties are used. The environmental code contains a heading on reasonableness weighing. It shows that the benefits of an action should be weighed against the cost, and I would argue that many people feel that this is not working in practice today. We must take this seriously, and we must work towards a more reasonable trial. Mr President, I would like to However, the fact that simple solutions are sometimes difficult does not mean that you should not work with the problem of eutrophication. But one must always weigh different interests against one another. We need to increase Swedish food security. We should therefore be clear that the taxation of and additional charges on Swedish agriculture should not be relevant. At the same time, we have a situation in the Baltic Sea that is serious – but Sweden alone cannot save it. The Baltic Sea is a catchment area of a region with 90 million inhabitants. Sweden plays a prominent geographical role among these countries and can and should be at the forefront of environmental work. Eutrophication, in particular the supply of nitrogen and phosphorus, causes oxygen deficiency, bottom death and algal bloom to an extent frequently described as alarming. The sources of eutrophication are several, including air landfills, unclean drains and nutrient leakage from agriculture. The problem is not new. International cooperation is needed, and this is where the Helsinki Committee can be highlighted. This cooperation includes nine countries that have the Baltic Sea coast and the EU, and we want the work to be stepped up. The Swedish Democrats want to increase the funding for measures for the marine and aquatic environment. We are in favour of further attempts at structural calcification, which may reduce nutrient leakage from certain types of soils. Work on minimising nutrient emissions from agriculture and other sources should in principle continue. At the same time, the possibility of action at sea to address the effects of eutrophication should be explored, for example through oxygenation and the removal of sludge and biomass. Mr President, I would like to The presence of plastics in the marine environment and other ecosystems is a problem that receives increasing attention. This is, of course, positive, but at the same time it calls for reflection. We have a potentially large threat in the form of microplastics in our waters, but at the same time today it is difficult to get a clear picture of the problem – at least from the Swedish context. For example, in Sweden we have no problem with plastic litter originating from Sweden. The plastic bags available in Sweden do not pose a major environmental problem, according to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. It has been found that the plastic bags are almost exclusively recycled, usually for new energy. In other parts of the world, on the other hand, this is a major problem – in some places. Research has shown that 95% of plastic waste that ends up in oceans and seas originates from ten rivers located in Asia and Africa. It's about huge amounts. For example, the Gange River in India is estimated to carry 600 million tonnes of plastic litter into the Gulf of Bengal. It's incredible amounts. Sometimes the problem may be exaggerated from the Swedish context, while underestimating the problem at a global level. We don't save the oceans by focusing on plastic bags here. If possible and cost-effective, we will of course recycle more and consume less, but the focus must be on international cooperation to a greater extent. When it comes to microplastics, however, the situation is different; here we have a potentially big problem even in our waters and originating in Sweden. At the same time, the situation is not clear. There are several of us in this Chamber who have highlighted research from Uppsala University on microplastics found in aquatic animals. This research has been withdrawn – it is not credible. You can no longer refer to it. We probably have no major problem with microplastics in our drinking water, but research and mapping is still ongoing. It has been noted that the amount of microplastics observed in the Baltic Sea has not increased. This does not mean that more microplastics have not been released – it probably has – but you do not know exactly where it has gone. It is probably at the bottom, and we do not know exactly what the danger is. This means that there is a need for continued intensive work in this area, and we would like to invest more resources in mapping and research on this. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats advocate a comprehensive strategy to reduce these problems. Increased resources should be allocated to identify the flows of plastics – both microplastic and macroplastic. Academy, industry and trade should be required to evaluate different plastics from an environmental point of view, and measures should be taken to reduce the overall use of plastic products. Plastics with a particularly high environmental load should be replaced by other materials. We welcome, for example, proposals to ban cosmetic products containing microplastics. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that this is not a very significant source. Instead, it is road traffic that is, and then the artificial grass fields come well. So there is much more to be done in this area. Having said that, I would like to call for further cases to reservations 3 and 5.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-944	Mr President, I would like to You don't miss the water until the well is empty. It is a proverb that describes the danger of taking something for granted but which in recent years has become a more literal reality for some Swedes through, among other things, contaminated drinking water and water shortages. In Sweden we are spoiled with being able to turn the tap and get clean, fresh water. We even have such an abundance that we can flush our toilets with drinking water. Globally, the situation is different. 663 million people worldwide lack access to clean water, and 2.7 billion people suffer from a shortage of water for at least one month a year. With Sweden's approximately 2 400 k ilo m ether coastline, more than 100 000 lakes and even more watercourses and several industries that depend directly or indirectly on water, the water is one of our most important resources. That is why we must also protect it. For the Center Party, the issue of water is extremely important. This is why we are investing in our budget of a blue billion to strengthen Sweden's water work. For us, three priority areas are: the recovery of the Baltic Sea, clean seas, lakes and watercourses, and safe drinking water throughout the country. Mr President, I would like to Let me start with the Baltic Sea. The Baltic Sea is one of the world's most sensitive seas, and it has major problems. Eutrophication, bottom death, overfishing, carbon dioxide emissions and a high level of environmental toxins are disturbing the marine ecosystems. Just as Jesper Skalberg Karlsson previously did, much work was done on the Baltic Sea, but we can unfortunately note that the Baltic Sea has received a little less focus from the current government, although maritime issues have been high on the agenda. We see that the work needs to be strengthened. The amount of nutrients in the Baltic Sea has declined steadily since the 1980s, but the concentration of the substances remains high. This is largely due to the fact that the proportion of oxygen-free bottoms increases where the nutrient phosphorus is released from the sediment. We therefore believe that we need to reduce the internal load in the Baltic Sea, including by stimulating the development of new marine innovations such as mussel farming for feed or marine biogas. Although eutrophication is a fact, good Swedish results have been achieved in recent years. The rural development programme's environmental benefits have been a key measure to reduce nutrient leakage, and work on, among other things, building wetlands and edge zones and adapting fertilisation to the needs of the crop has been important in this context, as well as investments in projects such as Greppa the industry. These skills and experiences need to be exported so that they also benefit other countries. The Baltic Sea is an inland sea with several surrounding countries. It is essential that Sweden is a driving force in regional cooperation in order for all countries to assume their responsibilities for the recovery of the Baltic Sea, as previous speakers have also mentioned. Another important area is the many individual sewers that have not yet been updated. Unclean wastewater contributes to oxygen depletion and eutrophication of our seas and watercourses and increases the risk of contamination. However, investment in a new sewer can be very costly, which today concerns many people, especially people living in rural areas. We therefore believe that the updating of individual sewers requires measures to focus on those areas where they are most useful, so that we get the most environmental benefit for the money. In Finland, for example, a model has been chosen where reasonableness assessments are a central part and where properties located more than 100 metres from water and not located in water supplies can be deferred to upgrade their wastewater system in connection with other renovations. We believe that there is every reason to look at how other countries, such as Finland, have chosen to handle the individual sewers. Mr President, I would like to There are many threats to our water. In our everyday life, we use a large number of substances, such as microplastics and pharmaceuticals, which affect the aquatic environment and which most treatment plants today cannot sort out. Dissemination of microplastics into our watercourses comes, among other things, from tyre wear, laundry of textiles containing synthetic fibres and from hygiene articles containing microplastics. How people are affected by microplastics is still quite unclear, but in the marine world the whole ecosystem is affected. Here a greater grip needs to be taken. Work for sharper international regulations and for technology development needs to be strengthened, and it is important that Sweden is a driving force in this work. Another source of dispersal of microplastics are artificial grass plans. It is important that a complete environmental impact assessment is carried out when deciding on artificial turf plans, playgrounds and other facilities where plastic and rubber materials are present. It is also important that renewable and sustainable alternatives are much more widely used. Recently, a report from Kristianstad University showed that 600 kilos of drugs are released annually in the Scanian rivers, seas and lakes. The study concerned only twenty - one out of several hundred pharmaceutical substances used in the treatment of diseases. The darker numbers are therefore large, and with great probability several tons of drugs leak out annually into rivers, lakes and seas throughout Sweden. Drug residues affect the ecosystem, contribute to infertile and bisexual fish and can contribute to the build-up of antibiotic residue. One problem today is that drug residues can pass through the treatment plants in active form without being taken care of. On the one hand, incentives are needed to reduce emissions from households and, on the other hand, better water treatment technologies are needed to prevent the spread to nature. It is therefore very positive that the committee is today calling on the government to strengthen the work on advanced purification techniques and to investigate requirements for purification. But there is also a need for power in upstream work. The use of medicines can be significantly improved from an environmental point of view. Since 2006, all new medicines will be declared environmentally and the company will document effects on the environment during the development period. We therefore want the environmental declaration to form the basis for a visible eco-label for medicines, so that the consumer can make an active choice at the pharmacy or in the store. We also want medicines to be re-evaluated in the light of new research findings on environmental effects. But the impact of medicines is not only a problem within Sweden's borders. About 70% of the medicines currently used in Sweden are manufactured in Indian Hyderabad. Emissions to the watercourses of drug residues from production are a major contributor to antibiotic resistance in India. Therefore, environmental considerations throughout the production chain must become a much more important parameter in public procurement of medicinal products. It is completely unreasonable that Swedish procurement of medicines contributes to antibiotic resistance in other countries. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to say something about the availability of clean drinking water. Changing the climate leads to floods, which, in addition to serious consequences for communities, are also at risk of polluting our drinking water supplies. The VA infrastructure is also very neglected in many municipalities. This increases the risk of leakage, for example, between sewers and stormwater pipes and the risk of contamination and contamination of drinking water. New challenges require a higher pace of renovation and create an increased investment need. The Center Party has therefore proposed new support for local initiatives and investments in new technologies, as well as for co-financing measures to ensure access to drinking water and to counteract the effects of drought. Water is a municipal responsibility and should remain so, but the state needs to support the municipalities in their work. Access to water does not follow municipal boundaries, and municipal planning should be coordinated regionally. We need to increase preparedness for emergency situations while facilitating long-term work on local and regional drinking water plans. Mr President, I would like to The list of challenges for our water is long. Fortunately, there are also many solutions. The first and most important step is that we all – both politicians and consumers – stop taking our water for granted and start to see water for what it is: vital. Of course, the Center Party supports all its reservations in the report, but for time to come, I only call for reservations 2 and 12.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-968	Mr President, I would like to That water is the most important food is probably all of us who are here tonight agreed on. Last April, I was privileged to come to Somaliland and see what water means. Somaliland is located on the Horn of Africa, where it is incredibly dry. 1 million people have moved from there to find water. As Mr Yngwe said, we in Sweden are really spoiled with having plenty of water, so we must take care of it. The Baltic Sea is a vulnerable sea. The Baltic Sea is a world-unique brackish sea with a special ecosystem. Irregular variations in saltwater inflow lead to unstable conditions for species living in the sea. The slow rate of water metabolism means that toxins and other chemicals do not flow out of the inner sea to any significant extent but remain and are enriched. These circumstances make the Baltic Sea a particularly sensitive sea. It is therefore justified to take particular account of the environment and wildlife of the Baltic Sea. Today, the Baltic Sea is not well. A large part of the seabed is dead, and an even greater part suffers from severe oxygen deficiency. The main cause of algal blooms and dead bottoms is eutrophication. Important efforts have been made to reduce discharges from sewage and agriculture, but it is not enough simply to reduce the supply to revive the Baltic Sea. More work is needed here, and it is important that all countries around the Baltic Sea are helped. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats put in our budget several million SEK a year to start a large-scale oxygenation project of the Baltic Sea to get cod back and at the same time push back the algal bloom, where we know that the blue algae produce the neurotoxin BMAA, which causes ALS, Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease. Twenty years ago we fished 400 000 tonnes of cod in the Baltic Sea. Today we have had to reduce our fishing quota for cod in the Baltic Sea to 40 tonnes, because cod cannot reproduce because of the phosphorus content of the dead bottoms. Madam President, I would like Drug residues in wastewater are a major concern. We propose that wastewater treatment plants be equipped with advanced treatment methods that are capable of reducing drug residues and other pollutants that cannot be dealt with in current processes. There should also be a ban on microplastics in cosmetic and hygiene products. The Nordic Council has proposed a total ban on microplastics in cosmetic products. Even if these products account for a smaller proportion of microplastics in the sea, such a ban would have a clear value. As far as the issue of individual sewers is concerned, a regulatory framework must be put in place that really works. It shall be possible to continue with individual sewers in rural areas. They must, however, be able to be ordered to be upgraded to comply with environmental and health requirements, even when they are in a single building, without entailing an obligation for the municipality to arrange municipal water and sewage in the buildings in question. The three laws that currently regulate water and sewage – the Environmental Code, the Construction Act and the Water Services Act – should be revised to bring them into line with each other. It is about the laws themselves, but perhaps above all about how case law has developed in this area. The motion also states in claim 4 that a person who has an individual drain that meets the environmental and health requirements normally should not be forced into a municipal sewer. The share of individual sewers in the environmental impact of the Baltic Sea is relatively small. According to the proposal for a new regulation on small wastewater treatment plants by the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management, the requirement for phosphorus treatment should be reduced from 70% to 40% in some areas. For houses that lie apart on low-nutrition land, the requirement for phosphorus removal should be completely abolished. According to the exercisers, many unapproved sewers are owned by older people or others with little financial resources. The investment to install an approved drain can be unduly burdensome or impossible for these property owners. Madam President, I would like There are a total of five different requests in the report, which I naturally support, but in order for time to win, I choose only to agree to reservation 11 on the rules for individual sewers.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-983	Madam President, I would like The fact that we are debating the marine and aquatic environment here today means a great deal to me. I grew up on the west coast of Bohuslän. The sea has always been present in my life. Since I was a kid, I have spent my summers in my family's summer house in Hamburgsund. My grandfather and my grandfather's brother were fishermen, and early in my life I experienced the sea at close range. There are many in my neighborhood who have jobs that depend on the sea. It is both about the fishing industry and about the tourism industry, not least. The sea, the clean sea, is part of our quality of life for leisure and work, outdoor life and livelihood. I don't know if I'm unusual or if I'm like everyone else. I think I've taken the clean sea for granted. And every new knowledge of the threats to the clean sea has involved me and horrified me. The work here in Parliament and in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture has taught me more and more about the challenges that we need to solve in order for us to once again have a clean sea in the future. And that's something that, the hand on the heart, many in my hometown actually see and understand. The marine environment has steadily deteriorated. Those of us who live there can see it for real – at close range. We see the algal blooms, and we see the piles of plastic litter growing in the bays and getting worse every year. We see that the small fishing boats have disappeared, and fewer and fewer are making a living directly from what the sea provides. I want my son to be able to experience a clean coastal landscape and a clean sea. I don't want him to say to me, Mom, you're a politician. What did you do when you had the chance? Madam President, I would like I would like to support the committee's proposal for a decision. We Social Democrats have been working for a long time to develop clean sea policies. Now the government in the budget for this year has delivered. It is a very good and ambitious effort on the sea and the aquatic environment that has now started, because there is not a lack of ideas on what needs to be done. What has been lacking is political will, action and resources, money. Finally, we have solved the problem of the cleaning of beaches by our coastal municipalities. We have protected lots of sensitive marine areas with marine reserves. We are banning microplastics in cosmetics, small plastic particles that disappear through our sewers and that end up in the sea. Along the coast of Sweden there are 17 000 wrecks. Experts say that 30 of them are an acute environmental hazard. It's poisons that will leak out. The government has now set aside money to start the clean-up of these, something that we social democrats from Bohuslän have been going on about for years. We also have all the toxins, dioxins and PCBs that leak from old sins on the bottom. Now there's also money for clean-up. Although it is not an easy task that goes quickly, it is a start. We're taking a strong shot at eutrophication. We are introducing aid for blue catch crops. Cultivation of mussels can actually make use of the environment to collect fertilising substances. We spend money to continue work against bad sewers. We want to ensure that old wetlands are restored and new ones added – wetlands that also collect nutrients and prevent eutrophication. Madam President, I would like When you read this report and the motions, you can see that we from all parties are actually on the same track and have the same awareness of the problems that exist. The report raises the important issue of medicines in our sewers. When I read the motions from the bourgeois Members, I see that we all feel strongly about this issue, across party boundaries. Today there is a great facility in Linköping for the purification of drug residues. The facility has been built in a collaboration between Technical Works in Linköping and IVL, the Swedish Environmental Institute. 90% of the drug residues are removed in purification. It's a first step. More municipalities can follow. The Government commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to work as early as 2014 with advanced treatment of our wastewater that can remove drugs from the water. The work reported back last year and said: Yes, there is technology and yes, there is need. Now the government has also added money to the budget for investment in advanced sewage treatment, so the government has invested a lot in this area. The movements of the bourgeois parties thus strike open doors. Nevertheless, I think it is a good thing that we are all drawing attention to this issue together with this debate and with this report on which we are about to take a position. It means a lot to the future that all parties have a strong will. It will be a good support for the municipalities that are now facing a heavy investment. I believe that drugs in our waste water are an issue to which we cannot turn a blind eye. Another important question is how to reduce the presence of microplastics in our seas. I agree with much of what is said in the motions and believe that we all want the government to work more on the problem. And a lot is already under way, such as a ban on microplastics in cosmetics – something that we Social Democrats have drawn attention to and driven in, for example, the European Parliament. I am very pleased that we have been able to deliver there. I agree with several of those who have raised motions that the problem of artificial turf plans may be greater than anyone previously thought. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has now developed a new guide for how to manage artificial turf plans. At the same time, an investigator is looking at the negative environmental effects of plastics. There are also a number of missions to authorities to reduce emissions of microplastics into the environment. Madam President, I would like The commitment that this issue arouses in all parties in this Parliament and in this debate gives hope. I can tell my son, should he ask: yes, we politicians know the problem. We are committed to this and we are developing solutions.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-1003	Madam President, I would like We are here today to debate the report by the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment on water conservation. This is the last time we have this report to debate for this parliamentary term, so I would like to take this opportunity to sum up a little bit what it looks like and what we have done in a government position. In the large sea, covering 70 percent of the earth's surface, there are many places where there are major problems. There was a report last year showing that 50% of the species in the sea have disappeared. In particular, the number of animals has decreased. Thanks to the fact that studies were carried out on the west coast of Sweden in the 1920s and 1930s, which were then repeated, we can see what it looks like here at home. In the summer of 2017, this was published, and it turned out that 60 percent of the species that researcher Jägerskiöld found in the 20's and 30's were gone; they were not in the samples. In the remaining species, the number has decreased, with a few exceptions. The species that have increased are often generalists who can take over other niches. This is, of course, alarming. The number of corals in the world has halved in 30 years. The important seaweed eel grass here in Sweden has also decreased drastically, at some levels by 98 percent but along the entire coast by about 80 percent. That's not good. On the other hand, we can see positive trends. For example, the depth of visibility in the Western Sea has increased, causing light to penetrate further down and increase photosynthesis. However, 30% of the bottom of the Baltic Sea is still dead, and 95% of the Baltic Sea is counted as infed. Despite this, several parties have said that there is little need to be done about individual sewers. A latrine barrel for a person in a year contains as much nourishment as is needed to grow two tons of carrots. It's not a little bit. Often they do not grow these two tons of carrots in their backyard, but it is nourishment that is stored in the ground or goes into the drains. That's why the government has set up an investigation into individual sewers. Since there are high costs for the individual, the right measures must be taken. The investigation will come in May, and I hope that we will then be able to get more, better and more functional measures, because we have almost 1 million individual sewers. Not doing anything or saying it doesn't do anything is not sustainable. The Moderates talk a lot about aid projects and the large wastewater treatment plant in Kaliningrad, which has really had an effect. It is strange, then, that you are cutting 2.8% of the aid budget, which could be used for more such projects. In addition, you cut 32% of the entire environmental budget. After all, we must take these measures and strengthen them. Environmental monitoring, which allows us to see the differences and that what was done in the 20s and 30s can be repeated today, the Moderates also want to cut by 21%. So it is not true that you have a larger budget and more measures for the marine environment. The government has done a lot for the marine environment. But that is what was done in the 70s and 80s that we can now reap the fruits of, for example, a better depth of view in the West Sea. We no longer see little diffuse oil spills here and there. Much is therefore better today because of what the politicians did 30 to 40 years ago. So what we are doing today will be our legacy 20, 30, 40 years ahead. What we have done in government is that we have finally contributed money to clean up wrecks. The first wreck that's been sanitized is Thetis. It's pretty close to where I live, and I've been diving on it myself. The Government is investing SEK 25 million in the budget to clean up about three wrecks a year. This removes environmental toxins, oils and other substances in the wrecks rather than risk leaking out. This has been asked for for a long time, and now it becomes a reality. We also provide money for beach cleaning. Sometimes you say: Give the hockey teams and football teams a few bags and they can clean the beaches! But it's so much that it has to be done professionally. Along our national roads it is the state that is responsible for picking up garbage, but on our shores it is the municipalities – despite the fact that the garbage has an unknown source and, as many in the debate have pointed out, often does not come from the place where it flows ashore. Now there are 17 million SEK for municipalities to apply for. The plastic and debris from the beaches will be removed, and the beaches will be kept clean and better. We talk a lot about microplastics, but large plastic objects also become microplastics as they crumble. They're going away, and we've added funds to that. We have also taken measures for cleaner stormwater and measures to remove ghost nets, i.e. lost fishing gear that continues to fish in the sea. We have adopted a maritime strategy that will make it better for people, animals and nature and create jobs. We also have a great effort to prevent the spread of medicine in the environment, and it will continue. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency wants to go further and see where to make these efforts to get the best development. We must also talk about what Sweden is doing abroad. I just got back from Nepal, and although it is far from the sea they knew that Sweden is working on maritime issues and that we have had a sea conference in New York. That was pretty cool. They also knew about Isabella Lövin. The New York Sea Conference was about one of the sustainability goals adopted by 193 of the world's countries in 2015, namely objective 14 on the sea. Sweden and Fiji took the lead and organised the conference. It resulted in 140 voluntary commitments, and for the first time the whole world spoke the same language and thought ahead. Sweden made 26 voluntary commitments, and they are now being turned into a workshop. Hopefully they will make a difference both now and in the future. I am confident that what we have done during this term of office will give great impression in the future.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-1022	Madam President, I would like Water is the finest thing we have. Without water, all life stops. Protecting water is not a cost; it is an investment with very good growth. A lot of people have talked about the microplastics. These have the government started work against as well as against drugs in water – something that I and Emma Nohrén already noted in exercise 2015/ 16:1589 on environmental problems with pharmaceuticals. For many Swedes it is unknown that common non-prescription medicines such as diclofenac, ibuprofen and many substances against foot fungi are highly environmentally harmful to aquatic organisms. So those of you who are looking at this: try to avoid deviating these products if you can! I'll mostly talk about my exercise dealing with high-fluorinated substances. In the EU, we are currently using up to 3 000 high-fluorinated chemicals. As a Member of the European Parliament, I was the rapporteur responsible and managed to phase out the PFAS from a great deal, and thanks to this directive, its use has been reduced by 95%. But that's not enough. Although we moved on with PFOA, there are lots of so-called PFAS substances, i.e. highly fluorinated substances, which are still being used. The government has commissioned authorities to move forward, but that is not enough. The Finnish Food Authority has analysed 11 substances, instead of seven, and set limit values. The Environmental Protection Agency has analysed 40 of them. Trying to address one subject at a time will take far too long. We know from experience that it is expensive to wait to deal with high-fluorinated substances. It is much more expensive to clean them from the drinking water than to avoid them ending up there. Although the report describes several of the measures under way and investigations that are being carried out – these I was aware of when I wrote the motion – I hope that together we can help to phase out these subjects as quickly as possible. A good way to move forward without getting stuck to individual substances is to do as the Germans have proposed and in which the Chemicals Inspectorate is also involved, namely to ban groups of substances or substances that can be broken down to other substances. If the Germans now proceed with a ban on six different PFAS substances, this means a direct ban on up to 200 others. Another measure we need to take is to measure total organic fluorine. Because even though the Swedish Food Safety Agency's recommendations for limit values, which have now arrived, have a built-in safety margin, this whole margin disappears unless we take into account the hundreds of other high-fluorinated substances that we do not measure or include in the limit value. Therefore, it would be best to have total organic fluoride. It has long been said that this is not possible because it is difficult to measure, but now there are new measurement methods that have begun to be applied in the United States as well. Now it's finally possible. This would be the best way to ensure our health and remedy the chemicals we will find in our sewers. Although work has begun, I hope that we can agree as soon as possible to look at the total, because all these high-fluorinated substances have very similar, harmful and long-acting effects. Let's get rid of them as fast as we can!
i-RbinYxH4ZF8EYZDNQZHKLD	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech, Carl Schlyter! I would like to begin by saying that I agree with the description of the problems with regard to groups of substances. We have seen a lot of examples that have banned bisphenol A and then manufacturers have replaced it with bisphenol S or F. It is clear that groups of substances really matter. PFAS is a problem. I do not remember where I have read the figure, but I think it is about about 3 million people who get their drinking water where there are residues of PFAS, which is an amazingly high figure. It is certainly true that not all of these people get harmful levels, but it is still alarming how widespread such a substance can become, so quickly. The main message of Mr Schlyter's speech is that we need to look at groups of subjects. In fact, I agree with that, and I know that those in this House do too. In fact, when we debated this last year, a united committee supported the view that there should be a look at groups of substances in European legislation rather than on individual substances. We know there will be drain pipes, and then you substitute with something that might be potentially even more dangerous. My question to Carl Schlyter is: is there not reason to be hopeful, or what do you expect more of the crew in the Environment and Agriculture Committee? It seems that we already think the way you think we should.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-1034	Madam President, I would like No one would be more grateful than me if the committee chose to endorse the motion rather than reject it, because then we would all be in complete agreement. There is, however, a difference. That's what I was trying to describe, but maybe I didn't quite succeed. First of all, I fully share your view that it is important to move forward with groups of subjects. As I mentioned, KemI, in cooperation with German environmental authorities, has started work to indirectly tackle these substances by attacking the degradation products. It is a smart way to access groups of substances to ban one substance and all substances that lead to that degradation product. It is an indirect yet legally and legally effective way of accessing groups of substances. What we are not doing now, which the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate have not yet done and which the Committee on Environment and Agriculture has not so far supported, is to simplify compliance by introducing a limit value for total organic fluorine. That is what I demanded in the exercise, and I have not seen that progress has been made yet. This is what I'm talking about.
i-oaPaKZuHfTY4xY8q38VYK	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the clarification, Carl Schlyter! I agree that this is an interesting way of tackling the problem of looking at the degradation products. This is how several countries act when it comes to drugs. For example, there are many online drugs that you watch. Once one of them is banned, it takes a few months, and a phenyl group or the like is moved. Then all of a sudden, it's not illegal anymore. There the same methodology can be used, very successfully. I would like to conclude the debate by wishing Carl Schlyter good luck in hearing his motion. It is also possible to lift the phone and call someone, perhaps at the Ministry of Environment and Energy, which is much easier for Carl Schlyter than for us in the Alliance.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-1039	Madam President, I would like I admit that the idea of the exercise came from people who are doing this daily and who want to move on and lift up the problem. I'm glad you're taking up the example of drugs. Even there I had a finger in the game. I was the negotiator for the European Parliament in relation to psychotropic drugs. As you mentioned, the problem is that when you forbid a thing changes a small group somewhere. The effect remains on an approximately one, and so you get a new group that is not prohibited. It was the first time that EU legislation included the possibility of moving forward with banning groups of substances. There too, therefore, is an opportunity for EU legislation to go ahead with this. In fact, we certainly agree on the ambition. And I have a phone – that way is also being tried. But sometimes you need to raise problems in public for it to take off. My experience with politics is often that you work with many good ideas, it goes a little slow or you don't get on at all. Or they are opposed by economic interests, and that is not how much happens. But when you do something in public – in a motion or in such a debate as we do now – and when people get involved it usually goes faster. It is always an effective method when it comes to politics.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-1043	Madam President, I would like We shall end this evening with a debate on chemicals, and I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2. According to World Bank statistics, the expected average life expectancy in 1960 was between 52 and 53 years. Now, about two generations later, it is between 71 and 72 years old, and the trend is increasing. Madam President, I would like The results are still very different between different parts of the world, but they are generally in the right direction everywhere. This is basically pleasing and should make many more hopeful, but why? Development should not be simplified, but there are at least two factors that have made a strong contribution to this development: better access to food and better access to medicines. As far as medicines are concerned, it is obvious, but the global revolution in food production ultimately rests on the industrial production of agrochemicals, specifically fertilizers and pesticides. However, that is not all. Kemin has given us new materials and contributed to the modern society's selection of products that we all use. In this situation, to start talking about a society without chemicals is a world away. The coin, however, has a backside. The right chemical in the wrong place and in the wrong concentration is no longer the right chemical, but the wrong chemical. Chemistry can save lives but also take life, cause health problems and affect our ecosystems in negative ways. That is why we have comprehensive legislation in this area and also authorities with the task of ensuring compliance with legislation. It is important that citizens have confidence in this respect and that we also have safety margins. Sometimes we opt out of an otherwise useful and useful chemical, or restrict its use, there because the health aspect is unclear, and it is our responsibility to strive to identify and preferably eliminate all chemical health risks. Madam President, I would like If something is dangerous, it should primarily be banned or its use restricted. The government has a different view of this and taxes consumer electronics under the innovative name chemical tax. Instead, it should be called the collection of money, because it does not have a controlling effect on the environment. The government is therefore not reducing the exposure of hazardous chemicals in this way. It increases revenues to the Treasury and, in the long run, hampers Swedish trade competitiveness. The competitiveness investigation has concluded that Sweden has access to significantly fewer plant protection products of importance for production compared to competitors in other countries in Europe. Access to suitable plant protection products is important for Swedish agriculture if it is to be maintained and developed and if we are to increase Swedish food supply. The Swedish Democrats therefore consider it of great importance that Sweden applies mutual recognition and accepts other countries' approval processes to a greater extent than today. Decision-making rights concerning the authorisation of plant protection products should also be transferred from the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate to the Swedish Agriculture Agency. The Agency will continue to be involved in the process, but the transfer of decision-making rights can contribute to improved overall assessments. The Swedish Board of Agriculture shall also have a broader responsibility to ensure the availability of plant protection products for crops that are grown to a small extent or for limited uses. Several government studies have pointed to the need to differentiate pesticide tax on the different environmental and health risks of preparations. Several countries have done this. There are also more examples of techniques applying non-chemical plant protection, where use would be stimulated by a differentiated pesticide tax. The Swedish Democrats therefore propose to investigate how a differentiated tax on pesticides can be designed. It should be noted that pesticides used in Sweden are currently undergoing a comprehensive regulatory framework for approval, management and environmental monitoring. Products which are not safe for humans, animals and the environment are not authorised, whereas the products authorised must nevertheless be considered safe. We believe that this is important to bear in mind. Madam President, I would like It is, therefore, this balancing process that we must make – affirm modernity and scientific progress for the benefit of humanity, while paying attention to the fact that development can also bring setbacks. It is said that the alchemists wanted to attain wealth and everlasting life. I don't think that's where we're going. However, an increase in global life expectancy of 20 years in half a century is to be said to be a step in the right direction.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-1056	Madam President, I would like I think it is very positive that we are debating water and chemicals together, because they are very closely linked. In my last speech on water management, I mentioned the need to work upstream to reduce the impact of different substances on our aquatic environments. But dangerous chemicals in our everyday lives affect not only water but also other parts of our nature and humans. For the Center Party, there are three important elements that we focus on in terms of chemicals policy: active work for a non-toxic cycle, strengthened consumer power and strengthened protection of both consumers and the environment. Sweden and the world need to be more resource efficient. Instead of the linear society that we have today, where we take a raw material, process, use and dispose of it, we have to move to a society where used products are seen as a resource and not as waste. For us to succeed, it takes a nontoxic cycle. For example, an old plastic toy containing a currently banned substance cannot be recycled into a new plastic product and must be discarded. It is therefore important that dangerous substances are phased out so that we can create circular systems. Certain dangerous substances must be banned. Other chemicals are common and not so toxic that they should be banned. But they can still be harmful in larger quantities, or in combination with each other. These substances need to bear their costs and their use should be reduced. Financial incentives, such as producer responsibility or chemicals tax, should therefore be used to accelerate the transition to more sustainable alternatives. Achieving non-toxic cycles also requires the development of EU chemicals legislation REACH and its updating as new knowledge of the properties of chemicals is added. It is also important that non-toxic cycles are included in the work being done on, for example, the circular economy at EU level. At the moment, the EU is working on a plastic strategy. Then it is an important task for Sweden to continue to point out the need for regulations and measures that speed up work for a non-toxic cycle. Madam President, I would like Information is needed to enable the consumer to make active and sustainable choices. Unfortunately, it is very difficult today, as a consumer, to know, for example, what chemicals the clothes that children wear actually contain. Under current EU legislation, the content of food and cosmetics must be specified. But there are no requirements to account for which chemicals are in the T-shirt you wear or in the floor of the house where you and your children stay daily. Therefore, it is almost impossible for the consumer to determine whether the product contains substances that may be dangerous. The Center Party wants to strengthen consumer power when it comes to content in textiles through, for example, a list of ingredients on clothing, but we also see a need for increased transparency when it comes to more product groups. This can be done through, for example, a database where consumers can directly search and see which chemicals are present in the products on the market – a chemical FASS, one might say. The consumer can then make informed choices and the power is brought closer to those involved. Madam President, I would like The last area I would like to highlight is the work to strengthen the protection of both consumers and the environment. High-fluorinated chemicals, PFAS, we heard an in-depth debate on the previous dossier. However, I would also like to refer to them in this matter. They are extremely persistent in nature, and many are bioaccumulative and toxic. Drinking water with high levels of PFAS can have negative effects on the thyroid gland, liver and immune system. PFAS has become more widely known when PFAS substances have been found in the water at several of the defence airports and practice fields, including Kallinge, Tullinge, Halmstad and Uppsala. The Center Party has repeatedly pressed for the defence to phase out PFAS in its activities, but also for them to take responsibility for the impact that their use of PFAS has caused. Unfortunately, the government has kept itself rather uninterested in acting. Fortunately, however, the Defence Inspector for Environment and Health has now decided to instruct the Swedish Armed Forces to develop proposals for measures to reduce the amount of PFAS in Uppsala's waters. But PFAS also continues to be found in fire foam and in more consumer products such as pizza cartons. It is therefore important to continue working politically towards the PFAS. Another area where we see a need for enhanced consumer protection is the growing e-commerce, where consumers from their phone or toad can directly purchase products from outside the EU. Unfortunately, this direct import often carries the risk that what is being traded will contain substances that are banned in production in the EU. In a monitoring project on online-traded toys, the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate found banned substances such as lead, cadmium and phthalates in almost every fifth controlled toy. Another group of goods often traded online, where controls have seen a high incidence of prohibited substances in the EU, are jewellery. A review of low-cost electronic products traded online, such as headphones, bicycle lights and USB connectors, detected banned chemicals in 38% of the products audited. It is therefore important to strengthen the international work on chemicals, so that more substances are regulated and stricter requirements are imposed on the goods imported into the EU. Strengthened global chemicals regulations provide a better environment where products are manufactured, where they are used and when they are to be disposed of as waste. In order to protect consumers at home, enhanced international chemicals work should be complemented by strengthened work on the monitoring of chemicals in goods. The Center Party therefore wants to see a major investment in the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate, customs and municipalities to be able to find these products, remove rogue importers and help shops to make demands on non-toxic products. Madam President, I would like Chemical substances are a prerequisite for the life we live, and they have facilitated our lives and the development of society. But it is clear that we have much to do to ensure a nontoxic everyday life with regard to both man and the environment. Of course, the Center Party supports all our reservations in the report, but for time to come, I only call for reservation 15.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-1074	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by asking a question: Can there be anyone who does not want to grow up and live in a nontoxic and clean environment? No, of course not. We do not want to live on an earth where environmental toxins threaten our lives, our health, animal life and the environment. This is particularly important for our children, who are often particularly sensitive to chemicals and other substances in our environment. One of the tasks of politics must be to protect children and young people in the best way. A fundamental principle for us Christian Democrats is the precautionary principle. We have a responsibility to counter irresponsible management of earth's resources. Among municipalities around our country, there is a great deal of commitment to phasing out toxic substances from the children's everyday lives. Great efforts have been made and are being made, but more needs to be done. Madam President, I would like The committee notes that there is a great need to address the spread of so-called PFAS substances in the environment, as they are extremely persistent in nature and may, among other things, interfere with reproductive ability. The government sees it as its top priority to map the use and work for the phasing out of these substances, but they want to await the Agency's proposals for measures before they act. We Christian Democrats propose that a ban be imposed on all PFAS substances, except those substances where it can be demonstrated that the environmental and health characteristics are acceptable. Today, only one of the PFAS compounds is prohibited, namely PFOS. We believe that there is an urgent need for a holistic approach to this chemical group because many of the other PFAS compounds have similar environmental and health characteristics. That is why, Madam President, I am in favour of reservation 11 in the report.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-1079	Madam President, I would like I am a social democrat because I think that the Social Democrats can best combine what we people need to live a good life – it's about sustainable development from an environmental, social and economic perspective. We therefore also have sustainable development that meets today's needs without jeopardising the ability of future generations to meet their needs. We Social Democrats have a proud tradition of working on environmental and climate issues. Taking joint and several responsibility for our common assets, which are both to be distributed fairly and to be managed for future generations, is a fundamental value for us. The Swedish model has also shown that it is possible to reconcile welfare, economic growth and environmental thinking. It is about environmentally friendly technological development that creates jobs, economic growth and a welfare worthy of the name. It is also, of course, about what we are discussing today: a chemicals policy that protects our health and our children. Madam President, I would like During this term of office, which is now coming to an end, the Swedish Government has shown that it can deliver in a credible way, not least in terms of environmental and climate policy and chemicals policy. The climate challenge is constantly present in the work of the government, and the state budgets that have been decided by our government during this term of office have given strong reinforcements in the field of the environment and climate – over 100 percent compared to the previous government. In comparison with previous governments, the difference in the level of ambition of the environment in particular is perhaps the most obvious. Chemicals are something that concerns all of us. For we humans come into contact with them through the food we eat, through the clothes we wear and through medicines that we need when we are sick. They are found in electronic products, such as mobile phones and other things, as we have already heard. They are found in hygiene products and in many other products. The report we are discussing today is about Sweden's chemicals policy. The report deals with a number of motions, which have been written and submitted by various parties. The claims concern a number of different matters. These include environmental requirements in public procurement, general environmental monitoring, environmental sanctions, non-toxic environment, endocrine disruptors, chemical pesticides, pollinating insects and chemical work at international level. When we debate chemicals and national policies versus the international level, it is important that we have with us that the area of chemicals is largely harmonised within the framework of the European Union. It is coordinated by EU chemicals legislation REACH. This means that the scope for national special rules is somewhat limited, but it has always been the line of the Social Democrats and also some other parties that Sweden, regardless of that, should take precedence over national legislation on hazardous chemicals when the EU acquis is not enough. Indeed, many national regulations have been followed by EU regulations or regulations at global level by individual states taking the initiative to take the lead. In addition, it was a strong political will in several EU Member States that made it possible to bring about the most ambitious chemicals legislation in the world. Madam President, I would like In this report, it is clear that the government is pursuing a progressive chemicals policy, and at the beginning of this term the government decided to instruct the Chemicals Inspectorate to develop the action plan for a non-toxic everyday life. It is about stepping up efforts to achieve the environmental quality goal of a non-toxic environment. The mission for the first few years has been reported. Although much progress has been made, we should be honest and say that many challenges remain. It is about dangerous substances in goods, about the need for food and drinking water to be better protected and about the need for children and young people to be protected in all environments. The government also continues to consider that the environmental quality objective of the Non-toxic environment is one of the most difficult environmental quality objectives to achieve, so we in the committee share the analysis that work on chemicals policy must continue to be intensively pursued at all levels. Not least because of this, the Government has given the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate increased funding and clearer mandates for its mission. A further concrete example of initiatives that have been taken and worth mentioning is the government's commitment to the establishment of a substitution centre. The ambition is to increase the substitution work among companies and public purchasers. It will also contribute to the development of sustainable chemical products, goods and non-chemical methods and technologies. Madam President, I would like Sweden has been and is an example in terms of both national and international chemicals policy. As I said, an important part has been to work towards developing EU chemicals legislation. Sweden belongs to the group of Member States that have submitted the highest number of proposals for measures against substances harmful to health and the environment. That work continues now. Hopefully, it will also continue after the elections. The basis for a non-toxic everyday life is laid by a harmonised classification of dangerous substances, authorisation testing within the EU and a ban on the sale and use of certain dangerous chemicals. However, we also need to review legislation on what we have discussed: economic instruments, public procurement and procurement support. It is also about, not forgetting, targeted information for consumers. Madam President, I would like As a Social Democratic representative of the Riksdag's Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, it is gratifying to see the broad commitment to chemical issues and the Swedish chemicals policy that exists both with the government and with several of the Riksdag's parties. This is evident not least in the motions dealt with in the report and which exist in this area. The main reason why the committee rejects all the requests for motion contained in the report is that work is under way on several of the issues concerned. This is also referred to in the report. I would like to conclude by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in report 2017/ 18:MJU12 on chemicals policy.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-1091	Madam President, I would like This is the fourth and last time that we are debating this chemical report. Most of the moderate proposals that have been put forward have thus been dealt with earlier in their term of office and will not be the subject of debate today. But you still have to make a bit of a balance sheet, as Emma Nohrén said creditably earlier, and look back on what you have actually achieved and contributed to during the period. During the first Parliamentary Session, 2014/ 15, the committee issued two announcements: one on the need to work within the EU to phase out mercury and the other on phasing out brominated flame retardants. Both these requests came from motions that the Moderates have been involved in writing together with the rest of the Alliance. Last year, too, an announcement was made to the government, in which a unanimous committee argued that the government should push for a better regulatory framework that takes into account not only individual substances but looks at groups of substances with similar properties. There was also a moderate exercise at the bottom, along with several movements from the Center Party. Today, however, there are no moderate reservations. However, we have achieved quite a success also in this Parliamentary session, and I will come back to that later in my speech. Madam President, I would like Overall, chemicals legislation is moving in the right direction. It is very gratifying that the chemicals legislation is now essentially contained in common EU regulations. This ensures that national special requirements do not become barriers to the internal market; the single market is one of the main objectives of being a member of the European Union. In a world where our Swedish companies are becoming increasingly international, it is of course very desirable. In those areas where we can deliver environmentally smart innovations with chemical-based solutions, it is good if we can export them so that the benefits are added and multiplied. Such development strengthens our prosperity and ensures resources for our common well-being, while other countries can benefit from better and often cheaper goods and products. It is easy to say that higher growth here and environmental developments do not have to be opposites, but can also be mutually reinforcing. Then there are problems at national level in interpreting EU-wide legislation. If the legislation is to work as it is intended in the Union, the Member States also need to interpret the rules in a similar way. Here Sweden is one of the countries that stands out a little. During this term of office, we have seen how our own authorities have banned plant protection products that have been permitted in our Nordic neighbours. That kind of gold plating gets very problematic. On the one hand, it impairs the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture, and on the other hand we import food from countries that may not take the same account when using plant protection products. It should be said that although we Moderates are generally opposed to Sweden banning substances that are approved in other countries, we advocate responsible use here at home. Glyphosate is an excellent example. It is the active substance in the most widely used plant protection product in Sweden and crucial for us to be able to conduct competitive food production at our latitudes. Some people want to ban it in Sweden because it is overused in other countries. But it would be better if more people used it in the same responsible way as we do in Sweden, with restrictions on what amount you can use and how close to the harvest you can use it. Madam President, I would like Glyphosate also brings me to the next topic. It is because glyphosate, which may sound dangerous, often replaces chlorinated compounds as active substance in plant protection. That's very good, because chlorinated compounds we want to keep arm-length away from everything we put in our mouths. That's a bit of the important thing about substitution: you can't just ban things here and there. It is not only hhähä and häpp häpp, but most of our products and goods also have a function. And even if one substance is banned, the function must remain, which means that one substance may be replaced by another that is potentially more dangerous or undesirable than what one had from the beginning. Of course, we should avoid that. At the same time, there is a need for information so that manufacturers can always use the best available chemical components. I know that many manufacturers are absolutely open to improving their products if there is only one reasonable alternative. After all, they are not the case that manufacturers long to use dangerous substances, but simply want to produce things that meet the requirements of their customers and what they are asking for. It is therefore very gratifying that the government has now set up a centre for the substitution of hazardous chemicals at the Research Institutes of Sweden in Borås, what we call Rise. The fact that this is now becoming a reality, I believe, is a very effective contribution to chemicals policy, not least in the long term. This is something the government has done surprisingly well. In fact, we Moderates see how almost literally we have taken the proposal that we have made to set up a substitution centre: on financing, on design and on proximity to the industry. There's three green goats! Madam President, I would like Speaking of authorities, I would also like to say a few final words about what I think they are doing well. Every time we have this debate on chemicals, I usually talk about the problem of gold plating, and sometimes we forget to say that there are also things that work extremely well. One such area that the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate is really good at is market surveillance. The Agency is responsible for supervision and has done quite a few interesting reviews only recently. The first thing to know is that they test products that people actually use. It's not peripheral things that are fun to test, it's things that people actually use in their everyday lives. Toys, among other things, have been watched a lot. When testing, a distinction is also made between products where there is some deliberate cheating and products where there are residues of unwanted substances due to poor cleaning in the premises where the product has been manufactured. When it has been established which products contain concentrations of regulated substances – for example lead, cadmium and phthalates – a discussion is initiated with the industry and with the companies responsible. Here you can say that Swedish authorities are quite good, because they often become more of a supporting partner than just an overcoat that is dominating, which is quite right. The usual thing when the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate has carried out its market surveillance is that companies or retailers themselves withdraw the products. Then there are cases where there are pure violations of the law, where the authority also has the resources to initiate legal proceedings. This is also something that is rightly highlighted in the media. You don't want poison in products that you use daily. Here I can say that the Chemicals Inspectorate is also taking responsibility. You inform calmly and calmly about what products it is about, you inform about working with the industry, you inform about what legal processes you have started and also, which is important, you are clear about what levels are dangerous and not. For example, if I were to say that there is arsenic in rice, most people would probably be quite scared – rightly so, because arsenic is a very potent substance. But when the alarm about arsenic in rice went last, it was such microscopically low levels that it was barely measurable. The levels were lower than those we have in our blood naturally. We had more arsenic naturally in the body than the levels that gave rise to the war headlines. Madam President, I would like The scientific approach, which is neither fair nor black, makes us feel very good. It provides a common basis, not only for us in society but also for us in this House, for discussions on the direction that policy should take. We have read many alarm headlines in recent years that have since proved to be based on dubious studies from dubious researchers in distant countries. I believe that we elected representatives have a responsibility to respond to this. One concern that is not based on scientific assessments is paralysing and counterproductive. That is why I hope that all parties in this House will fight against such alternative facts in the electoral movement that is approaching. In fact, we know better than just reading headlines, and my promise to you, from all over my party, is to resist such war headlines.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-1114	Madam President, I would like I have been given the ungrateful task of being last out in a debate on a Thursday evening, and I will try to stay brief and also informative. We are here to debate the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture's report on chemicals policy, and I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. When you talk about chemicals, sometimes it seems a little scary. You may think of test tubes with skulls, as it is produced in literature and on television. When you have chemistry in school, it's always protective gloves and goggles on. That's good. You're supposed to be gentle. But it is actually that most of our everyday life is chemistry. Just look at this cooking. When you put salt in the pasta water, you raise the boiling point. It's chemistry. On a day like this, it is more to pour salt on the ice to avoid slipping. You get a lower melting point. When we roll deo under the arm, it's aluminum chloride that kills bacteria and removes odor. When we wash in our hands, the surface tension of the water is lowered, allowing fats to mix and wash away. It's chemistry. To mix together substances so that they get different properties than each substance each one we have been doing for a long time. Salt on food increases the taste. To stripe a pine tree to form fatty wood, hardwood, has been made for a long time to get stable, good and sustainable material, i.e. a naturally impregnated wood. With increased knowledge and resources, we have, of course, taken this much longer. Instead of stripe barking a tree and waiting six years before it is taken down, we can take any tree and impregnate it and produce something that is digestible. The technology was of course revolutionary when it came, but now we all know that it was not so good with all the creosote that leaked out into the chips and so on. It was the same thing with flame retardants, which is mentioned in the report. It was great that you could make furniture that didn't burn, but it wasn't so good when there were endocrine disrupting substances in them. Most of it has been developed in good shape, but the consequences have sometimes proved fatal. We are now talking about a nontoxic everyday life, which means that it is the norm that we are among poisons. This may include flooring in kindergartens, plastic toys, pens and receipts. Everything contains substances that we are becoming more and more aware of and simply must either ban or phase out. Sometimes we don't even know if the substances affect each other. We have said this in the past four years in the context of debates on chemical reports, namely that 1+1 does not always become 2. 1+ 1 can be both 4, 10 and 1,000 depending on the substances involved, when we have been exposed to them and during which part of our lifetime. Various substances and chemicals not only affect us but also affect other living beings, of course. We've been talking about drugs. Something that does not cause me as a human being to get a headache affects other living beings too, of course, but not always in the same way. Diclofenac, which allows us to go to work even though we have back pain, is deadly to birds. When we talk about pesticides, which Jesper Skalberg Karlsson mentioned just now, I can mention glyphosate. After many and long EU negotiations last autumn, it was an extension of only five years, and private use of glyphosate is banned before then. And the professional use is regulated. Yes, there may be problems at first before substitutes have been developed. But glyphosate is harmful to aquatic organisms and has a negative effect on biodiversity. It is simply not good for the environment. The subject is actually countering what we want to do. We want to grow and get crops, and then there must also be pollinators. But pollinators and biodiversity are affected. There is a need for a humus layer full of nematodes and other small animals, but they are adversely affected. We bite ourselves in the tail, but we thought we were smart. Yesterday, Efsa, the European Food Safety Authority, released a report on neonicotinoids. It is pesticides that are used to reduce insect attacks on corn in particular. It is one of the most common and most widely used funds. In the past, it has been said that it is harmless because one has looked at whether it affects people. Now they have looked at how the product affects bees, honeybees and bumblebees. The report is clear: "D" kills bees. They lose their memory and cannot reproduce, and there will be a reduction in pollinators. Last autumn a survey came from Germany. It showed that 60 percent — in some places even more — of the insects have disappeared. We're seeing an insect death. Madam President, I would like This is serious. Einstein already said, seven years without pollinators, there's no food. There are few crops that can do without pollinators. Banning and reducing the use of pesticides is not a blow to agriculture but is perhaps what is needed for agriculture to continue. We're not gonna bite our tails. Much of this is something we can do at home. We will ban where we can, influence where we can and lead where we can. Several have believed that these issues do not remain within the borders of the nation, but that we must drive them in Europe, and both this government and the previous government have been clear about that. Sweden has a good track record on these issues. This also applies globally. Every day 150 000 packages, so-called China packages, with different content come to Arlanda. The packages are ordered, but no one is responsible for what they contain. At worst, the packages may contain substances that are banned in the EU because they are harmful to health and the environment, such as lead or plasticisers. We need global frameworks – also for recycling. It is therefore exciting and good that Sweden and Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog will host an international strategy meeting on 12-15 March. The meeting will look at global cooperation in the field of chemicals, the so-called Saicm strategy. It extends until 2020. Then you don't know what's going to happen. There will be a high-level meeting in Stockholm. Sweden wants to form a coalition of ambitious countries to create a global framework for chemicals and waste. They want to see a Paris agreement on chemicals and waste, which is now in place for the climate. The framework should contain a simple and long-term version with a goal of reducing the risk of hazardous chemicals. Sweden has already taken on the lead shirt by inviting to the meeting and looking at how the work can take its continuation after 2020. This is taking this issue seriously and doing what we can.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-1134	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that Emma Nohrén still uses Efsa as a source in a sense about neonicotinoids but not when it comes to glyphosate. Both Efsa and ECHA have said that glyphosate does not lead to what Emma Nohrén says. And yet she wants to phase it out. Glyphosate is the active substance in the most widely used plant protection product in Sweden and is crucial for us to be able to farm at our latitudes, according to LRF. Yet Emma Nohrén wants to phase it out. I understand that the Green Party and the whole government are behind the food strategy, and it says that food production should be increased in Sweden. Yet it seems that we want to phase out the most widely used plant protection product. Let us look at the question of fossil-free agriculture. Ploughing-free agriculture depends on the existence of viable plant protection products. Here, as in other areas, there is a risk that, if one is forbidden, one will have a worse alternative. It is a bit like shutting down nuclear power in Germany, and then you get coal power instead. Or you ban glyphosate, and then you get organochlorinated compounds instead. Why does the Green Party want to be so desperately stuck in the image of glyphosate, which is actually only confirmed by a recognised study a few years ago and which has been proven by all the European expert authorities? What is so important about glyphosate, except that it sounds dangerous?
i-EKgmmNZhgp4BTg6SVQxju6	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Jesper Skalberg Karlsson! I think we're confusing the concepts a little bit. Efsa has concluded that glyphosate is not carcinogenic but that it is the excipient tallowamine that is carcinogenic. Therefore, the excipient has been changed. However, Efsa has said nothing but that it is dangerous for biodiversity. It is harmful to aquatic organisms – it appears on the packaging. It should also go into nature, so Efsa has in that case looked at how it hits people but not how it hits nature. What has happened with neonicotinoids is that for the first time they have looked at how they hit pollinators like bees, honey bees and bumble bees and then seen that they are dangerous. So it has not been looked at before. Efsa has not looked at the harmful effects of those substances on biodiversity. As far as I know, a ban on such a substance has never led to the use of something that is more dangerous, but it has always led to a substitution for something better. But if Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has any other example, please.
i-MVdQyf9ympStRnDrQ8k4aD	Madam President, I would like A clear example is Bisphenol A, which was replaced by Bisphenol S and Bisphenol F, which has approximately the same or worse effects. One could say that there was a time when Sweden did not use plant protection products, and then things were more natural. Yes, but then they lived only to the dreary age of death in childbirth. It is clear that we need new things if we want to develop and move forward, and as far as glyphosate is concerned, what has been said is the active substance in the most widely used plant protection product in Sweden. I have debated this with both Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht and Karolina Skog in this House, and they are firm in the view that there are alternative methods that will solve these problems later on. That may be the case, but no one can explain how these alternative methods are done. There you are a little guilty – if you want to phase out all plant protection products, what do you want to replace them with? I cannot see before me that we can increase food production – which is an objective that this government has set itself – unless we give our agriculture reasonable conditions to compete with our Nordic neighbours. It will be very strange if we are to lay down agriculture in our country and then import food from other countries. Swedish food is responsibly produced food – even if you use a little glyphosate.
i-ead9d8c281795c87-1147	Madam President, I would like Once again, I think that Jesper Skalberg Karlsson confuses the concepts. The decision to phase out glyphosate for five years applies to the whole of the EU, which means that it will be the same conditions of competition for Swedish agriculture as for foreign agriculture. France has decided to do so in three years and to go ahead. If we do not have biodiversity, if we do not have pollinators, we will not be able to increase our food production either. Perhaps we should not be completely without plant protection products, but we must have the right kind of plant protection products – plant protection products that actually harmonize with nature and do not knock it out and oppose us.
