i-b06324e01eafcda3-10	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me if I Initially, I would like to say that I share the view that it is important that Sveaskog and the other forest companies in Sweden conduct long-term sustainable forestry so that the environmental objectives are achieved. The government has a clear ambition that protected forests should not be harvested but should be preserved either through formal protection or through voluntary provisions and that environmental considerations in the used forest should increase. The Government's forestry policy is based on two equal objectives: the production target and the environmental objective. There is a need to develop both of these elements. The government seriously considered that in November 2016 Sveaskog received a major deviation reported in the annual external FSC review (the Forest Stewardship Council certification organisation). After a comprehensive programme of measures was presented, the auditor was able to close the deviation in February 2017. The Government has a high ambition in terms of sustainable entrepreneurship and has high expectations that companies with state ownership will act exemplaryly and conduct their operations in a way that promotes sustainable development. This means, for example, acting responsibly and transparently and working to comply with international guidelines that apply, among other things, to environmental considerations. Companies with State ownership shall act in a manner that ensures that they enjoy public confidence. Sveaskog's work with sustainable entrepreneurship is recurring in corporate governance and the dialogue between the company and the owner. As regards the return target, it was revised in 2014 and assessed to reflect the company's overall mission well. Ore forest kingdom is one of the largest remaining continuity forests in Sweden below the border of mountain forest. Sveaskog has therefore formed an ecopark in a part of the area. Sveaskog is therefore also engaged in forestry with increased consideration to preserve biodiversity. I can see that there are different views between the Nature Conservation Association, Sveaskog and the supervisory authority Skogsstyrelsen regarding current forestry measures in the area. The Swedish Forest Agency considers that the natural values are not sufficient grounds to prevent felling. The Swedish Forest Agency has supervised logging notifications and assessed that Sveaskog should complement its environmental concerns. The company responded to this and has carried out additions. Sveaskog does not believe that they are felling protective forests. I note that the independent FSC auditor has not noted any deviation from the conservation assessment carried out by Sveaskog and the Forestry Board or the planning of the three areas that have been the subject of complaints. Sveaskog's natural value and logging assessments are an operational responsibility for the company's board and management, and I assume that they comply with applicable national laws and the international agreements and agreements that Sweden has signed, as well as FSC's principles and criteria. As far as transparency is concerned, I would like to point out that Sveaskog is, from many aspects, a company that is open and clearly discloses its activities. However, a discussion is ongoing about the company's transparency regarding conservation assessments. An open and constructive dialogue, in which all parties show respect for each other's roles and missions, is the best solution for jointly finding a way forward.
i-b06324e01eafcda3-18	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Enterprise for the answer to my questions. Sveaskog is Sweden's largest forest owner. Sveaskog owns just over 4 million hectares of forest land. It is therefore very large areas we are talking about, and it is of course absolutely crucial how our 100 percent jointly owned company manages that forest. The government also has a very good goal, I think. It is said that the ambition is that so-called sheltered forest – valuable forest from an ecological perspective – should not be harvested. In one case, Sveaskog has recently received very harsh criticism, not least from the environmental movement. We've seen roll calls in newspapers. I know there have been letters to the government and so on. Sveaskog plans extensive fellings in an area in northern Rättvik – it goes under the name Ore skogsrike. The Minister also mentioned this in his reply. The Nature Conservation Association has made its own inventory of the area and has concluded that it is an area with very high natural values. Among other things, no less than 26 red-listed species have been found. The County Administrative Board of Dalarna has also made an inventory of the area. They recommend that the forest not be cut down. This applies to the forest at Norra Brännvinsberget, which is located in Ore skogsrike. I am therefore a little surprised by the Minister's reply, in which he leans entirely against Sveaskog's own assessments. I find it difficult for the rest of us to take a position on these assessments because they are not published and words thus contradict words: The County Administrative Board in Dalarna and the environmental movement note that these are areas with very high natural values that should not be cut down, and the Minister, on the other hand, can refer to Sveaskog, who says that one can certainly do that. Why can the Minister not work for Sveaskog to be a fully transparent company that publishes the results of its own conservation inventories? I note that the Minister says in his reply to me that there is an ongoing discussion about the company's transparency regarding conservation assessments. I would like to know between whom this discussion is being held, whether the government is active in that discussion and what that discussion should be aimed at. I would also like to ask the Minister about the yield requirement of Sveaskog. I hear from several different sources that Sveaskog themselves says that they are whipped to deliver high returns to the government, and many feel that the result is that they start to cut down sheltered forests. What is Sveaskog's yield requirement today, Mikael Damberg? Wouldn't it be a good time to lower it slightly so that you can take more account of it?
i-b06324e01eafcda3-26	Madam President, I would like Mr. Minister! Sweden has fantastic natural resources through, for example, its fields and pastures, its forests, its hydropower, its mineral and ore deposits and so on. It is much because we use these natural resources that Sweden today is a welfare country – one of the richest countries in the world. While Sweden conducts and exploits these assets through agriculture, forestry, forest industry, mining and so on, we strive to do so in a more resource-efficient way than perhaps anywhere else in the world. Our state-owned companies are also, in my opinion, basically engaged in a requirement to take environmental considerations to a significant extent. My picture of how Sveaskog manages its forest assets is fundamentally positive. It is a well-managed company which carries out its forest management rationally, which is necessary, and which also takes environmental requirements into account in its management. Then we can discuss whether it is optimal or whether we should go much further, and that is what we are doing here today. Private forest owners also regularly take great care of the environment in their forest management. The state obliges them to do so, but it wants to do so to a large extent. We have different roles in society, and environmental interests often push on and believe that Sweden does too little, that Sveaskog does too little and that we have to do more and lift environmental requirements much higher than production requirements. This is a balance. Sometimes it is pictured that forestry must devote much more than today to nature reserves, as key biotopes or under the Species Protection Directive, which is well at issue here. This means that individual forest owners are sometimes not allowed to use their own forest, while the state no longer compensates for this through reasonable compensation, which is very strange. I do not share the picture that Sweden is bad at this. Of Sweden's total of 28 million hectares of forest land, around a quarter are currently excluded from forestry. In addition, an additional 8% of the area in used forests is left as environmental considerations. In Swedish forestry, felling is less than growth, and the forest supply is increasing all the time, which has very positive climate effects. Jens Holm raises concrete issues that are important to discuss, and like the Minister for Economic Affairs, I note that the Board of Forestry and the independent FSC auditor consider that one can harvest. However, the environmental movement does not. That is the issue in that part. With this post, I really just want to give an overall picture. It is easy in the Riksdag to highlight one aspect – environmental interest – and to set the requirements very high. We shall be able to do so, but it is also important to have a holistic approach as a basis for the debate. Should state companies or government authorities take further steps to reduce the use of forests? This is possible, and we need to discuss it in an overall way. If the state demands that private forest owners no longer use their forest land to the full, it must of course compensate for this, otherwise the land is actually socialised.
i-b06324e01eafcda3-35	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Jens Holm for a very important interpellation and also thank the Minister for his reply. As has been said earlier here, Sveaskog is not only the largest forest owner in the country, but it is also a company that we all own. I think that I and many people with me have been proud that Sveaskog has been an example when it comes to environmental and nature conservation work, at least for a decade. After the major debates and protests from environmental organisations in the 1990s, the big forest companies also made a change in their forestry. In recent years, however, something has happened to Sveaskog. We are many Members of Parliament who receive emails from upset citizens, i.e. owners of Sveaskog, about the fellings of protected forests. We are many municipal politicians and parliamentary politicians who have been involved in, for example, the logging plans around Tiveden's National Park. Sveaskog thought about clearing the land around the national park with major negative consequences for the tourism industry and of course the outdoor life but changed the attitude and now will not use the woodworks but a different kind of continuity forestry, which is very good. I also hope that Sveaskog can change its own mind on the issue of Ore Skogrike, because I am very concerned about the letters and articles that have been written on this issue and also about the fact that Sveaskog, as the Minister mentions, received serious remarks from the FSC certification body in 2016. It would simply be very embarrassing and bad if the state forest company were to get rid of its certification. I also get alarming signals from within Sveaskog that there are improvements and reorganisations going on and that the economic goal is fully in focus, while conservation work is being prioritised in the company. Perhaps I, too, can draw the same conclusion as Jens Holm, namely that this must be linked to the yield requirement from the state. After all, we have a government that has very good goals for the forest – this that the protected forests should not be harvested but be protected formally or voluntarily and that the international guidelines should be followed, as the Minister says. We also have a case in Parliament. Staffan Danielsson talked about problems with the desire to protect more and more forests, but there is actually a parliamentary decision since the Alliance Government that we should protect 150 000 additional hectares of protected forests in formal protection and 200 000 hectares in voluntary protection. We have not achieved this, but the government has invested a great deal more money to be able to replace forest owners properly for these lands. My question to the Minister is about this with international guidelines to be followed by state-owned companies. There is an agreement, a guideline, which Sweden has signed, namely the Nagoya agreement. It shows that 17% of different habitats are to be protected. The Swedish parliament has even increased to 20 per cent have protection. How does the Minister believe that Sveaskog can achieve this goal? What I think I know today is only 10 – 12% of Sveaskog's land that is protected.
i-b06324e01eafcda3-44	Madam President, I would like I thank the interpellant and other Members of Parliament for an important debate. Forests are really an important issue for Sweden. It is one of our most important natural resources. 70 000 people around Sweden have income and jobs in one form or another thanks to the forest industry. The forest is actually the largest net exporter from Sweden. But the forest is also a very important place for people to stay in and experience nature, and it is an important place for biodiversity. Today, the Earth has a major challenge in addressing the issue of the loss of biodiversity on the planet. The forest summarises many different policy areas and is an important asset for Sweden. The Government considers it important that Sveaskog and other forest actors in Sweden set aside protective forests and conduct sustainable forestry. The debate that has arisen on the fellings of Sveaskog in Ore skogsrike is of course important, should be taken seriously and should be discussed, but it must be done seriously, as in this House, constructively on the basis of facts and with respect for the different roles of the debaters. I generally assume that fellings and provisions in the Swedish forest are made in accordance with laws, rules and the eco-labels that exist. But I'm also sensitive to when criticism comes out, if the system doesn't work and if mistakes are made-- that can happen. That's why the government acted so hard when Sveaskog received sharp criticism in 2016, and it came in with an action plan to show how to proceed – and the criticism was withdrawn by FSC. As far as Ore Forests is concerned, I can see that there are clearly differences of opinion on this issue. Jens Holm was into it in his post. There are on the one hand certain environmental organisations, and on the other hand Sveaskog, the supervisory authorities and the Swedish Forest Agency. The Swedish Forest Board does not consider that the fellings Sveaskog has done or intends to do include protective forests. The County Administrative Board has also not chosen to form reservations, as has been done in several other areas. I think the County Administrative Board has identified seven reservations so far. In addition, FSC has not found that any error has been committed by Sveaskog or by the supervisory authorities. It is important to stress that the entire forestry that Sveaskog conducts at Brännvinsberget is done with increased consideration to preserve biodiversity, that Sveaskog has complied with the environmental complements in Ore that the Swedish Forest Board wanted and that the company has set aside a total of approximately 55 percent of all production forests in Ore that are older than 80 years. This is going to be very technical. For those of us who are politically elected – MPs – and responsible for managing the state-owned company Sveaskog, it is difficult to have precise views on how the assessments should be made or whether one party has done right or wrong. There I have to trust that the company's board and management take their responsibility seriously, and Sveaskog has high environmental ambitions for its forestry. However, I must also listen to the authorities that have to assess this issue. Sveaskog's assessment is that they do the right thing according to the laws and regulations that apply and that by forming the ecopark they have taken greater responsibility for the area because it is a unique environment that requires more responsibility from the company. It is also important to get back to the company's goals. The company has a strategic goal to be a leader in sustainable forestry. This includes the responsible management of forests and the disposal of 20% of the cultivated area as a conservation area for increased biodiversity.
i-b06324e01eafcda3-53	Madam President, I would like Minister for Industry Mikael Damberg said earlier something important about how we view Sveaskog, namely that Sveaskog should enjoy a great public trust. It is important in this context. Does the Minister not think that confidence is a bit shaky when there are so many protests against the planned fellings? If that is the case, perhaps it is time for the Minister to raise the issues in a dialogue with Sveaskog because it is a state-owned company that we own entirely together. I believe, and the Minister seems to agree with me, that Sveaskog is an extremely important tool for us to achieve a number of important societal goals. This applies not least to several of the 16 major environmental objectives. One of them is that within two years we will have protected 20% of our land and fresh water surface. We cannot, on the one hand, set high targets for having a state-owned company that cuts down areas where there is great species wealth, including red-listed species. This has come to light when the environmental movement has reviewed Ore skogsrike. Mikael Damberg returns to Sveaskog's own assessments and to Skogsstyrelsen's assessments. But the County Administrative Board of Dalarna has made an assessment of the area. On p. 76 and 77 you take up N orra Brännvinsberget, which is located in Ore forest kingdom. It recommends that the forest should not be cut down because it will make it more difficult for the species-rich and valuable area to grow further and continue to be the important area it is today. I previously asked a question to the Minister for Economic Affairs, to which I did not receive an answer: What is Sveaskog's yield requirement today? According to the Minister for Economic Affairs, the return requirement was established by 2014. This is something that the government can adjust upside down. As far as I know, the government has adjusted the yield requirement for other companies that own forests. For example, for Fastighetsverket and Fortificationsverket, return requirements have been slightly reduced. Can't the same thing be done with Sveaskog? It can be said that Sveaskog has other important goals to fulfil, i.e. that the most important thing is not that Sveaskog becomes a cash cow to the state, to deliver such a high profit to the state, but that it is more important that the forests of protection are maintained. I also asked the Minister a specific question about the transparency of our state-owned company Sveaskog. Does the Minister not think that Sveaskog should be an example in this regard? Sveaskog should publish and publish all nature inventories, so that all of us who are involved in this debate, for example, can take a position on Sveaskog's own assessments. Unfortunately, we cannot today.
i-b06324e01eafcda3-58	Madam President, I would like The first point of Jens Holm's interpellation is overall. Jens demands that the government's governance of Sveaskog be changed so that it further increases its conservation work and stops felling larger forest areas than is currently imposed according to the state's owner's directives and parliamentary decisions. Parliament decisions apply, of course. I agree with Stina Bergström that nature reserves and other conservation provisions can be made as the state has the resources to replace the landowner or oblige Sveaskog to limit its forest production, which means less resources to the state – the lower the yield requirements and so on. Industry ministers don't usually engage in ministerial government. As I understand it, the scope for action is greater in the case of state-owned companies than in the case of public authorities. I still think that Sveaskog should basically work with freedom under responsibility. The Minister for Industry also refers to assessments by the responsible authorities, which I think weigh heavily. We shall also take the environmental movement and those assessments seriously and examine various issues. I know too little about these particular forests to be able to speak on this. It is possible that the state could go ahead and Sveaskog take greater responsibility and that the weight of individual forestry to bow to species protection directives and so on can be reduced. However, it is a major discussion which I think it is important that the whole of it be carried forward before any changes are made to the ownership directives for Sveaskog.
i-b06324e01eafcda3-63	Madam President, I would like I think we can agree that we want Sveaskog to be an environmental example. As I said in my last post, I still think the company has been. What concerns me so much is that you are no longer. I asked the Minister about the targets, how much protection and such. I have also heard the figure of 20%, which Sveaskog has as its goal. The same goal has been set, to reach up to 20 percent, for 18 to 20 years. However, the calculation of this 20% is very complicated, because it is not about the areas that have been protected but about consideration in future fellings. It's a complicated way of counting. If you boil it down to what is truly protected today, formally or voluntarily, you don't end up at more than 10 to 12 percent. It is therefore the state-owned company, which should be an example, that does not reach the 17% that we have said we should achieve in Sweden. I will not ask any more about it, because I understand that the Minister cannot answer questions that lie in what the company is in charge of. But I would like to hear a little more about what Jens Holm has also asked about, the Ore Forest Kingdom. You get a little frustrated as a politician when you try to understand this but can't find out what it looks like in the area and Sveaskog doesn't show up on what inventories you base your decisions that this is not so safe that it should be saved.
i-b06324e01eafcda3-66	Madam President, I would like This is important, what was said early in this debate – there should be a balance between production targets and environmental objectives in Swedish forestry policy because forests are a natural resource that we should use and create value for. Historically, the forest has never been more important than it is today, not least in view of the great change we are facing in terms of climate change. I think the forest will be one of the keys to that transformation. If we are to do so, we must also promote efficient forestry in Sweden, so that investments can be made in new biorefineries or other development opportunities that exist for the forest industry. On the other hand, we have environmental considerations, as this House has stated, that both Sveaskog and other forest companies on the Swedish market should take on. There are a number of more specific questions that I was going to try to answer now. With regard to public access and transparency, I can say that I have demands on the public companies, the state companies, that they should be as transparent and transparent as possible. Sometimes, however, there may be business secrets in production or other activities. The Nature Conservation Association requires Sveaskog to publish all conservation assessments. There may be some challenges in it, but I know that the company wants to find a solution to the issue of transparency and transparency, and that a dialogue is now being held with the Nature Conservation Association, for example. My hope is that the parties will find a way forward. Part of the background to the discussion now being held on Ore is perhaps that you have different decision-making bases and different images of reality. It is important that you learn over time to deal better with these issues so that you do not end up in the same discussions in the future. I hope and believe, however, that Sveaskog can make those assessments so that as owner minister I will not have to control this. I understand that there is a dialogue in progress. With regard to Sveaskog's economic objective, it is important to say that it currently has a yield target of 4.5%. When it was set, the company's target of 20 per cent was natural, but also other sustainability goals and environmental considerations were part of the integrated operations. It is important to say what Staffan Danielsson mentioned – that Sveaskog's mission was clarified in 2010. Now the business is based on a business basis and will generate market returns. What's a little special about Sveaskog is that it's a large company, which I've been into before, but also an independent operator with core operations in forestry to increase competition in, for example, the timber market but also to provide raw materials to the industry in a stable flow regardless of economic conditions. It is incredibly important that it is in place also in the larger industrial perspective. Sveaskog has a bit of a unique role in delivering whether prices are up or down, while many private forest owners may wait with the felling until it has to happen or prices are right. Therefore, Sveaskog also has a little of a special role for the Swedish forest industry to work over time to ensure that the production is even and works. I will also say something about the dialogue. I believe it is important for the parties involved in this discussion. There can be discussions from time to time if you make the right assessments. In Sweden we are usually quite good at building systems in any case for future problems, so that you agree on how to do it then. In the midst of such a conflict that has flared up, it can be quite complicated, and then I have to start a lot from what my company says but also from the authorities that have to look into it. It will, of course, weigh heavily.
i-b06324e01eafcda3-77	Madam President, I would like I think it has been an interesting debate so far. That is exactly what the Minister says, that there are different objectives in society. The forest is really a context where different goals can clash with each other – to maximize production so that we get more wood raw material and pulp or to protect the forest so that more tourists and other people can be out in the woods picking berries and jogging as well as to protect endangered species and so on. It is important to find the right balance there. The Minister mentioned the mission to Sveaskog, which was revised in 2010 under the bourgeois government. The government is free to give Sveaskog a new assignment, and that is exactly what I would like to see. In the new mandate, I think we should review the demand for return, which is 4.5%. In my ears, it sounds like a high yield requirement. I understand why people who are involved in this issue say that we have to cut down these forests because we are whipped to deliver returns to the state. Then I think it is high time the Minister acted. I also think it is high time to act for greater transparency and transparency because there are so different images of what Ore forest kingdom is and what these forests contain. I would like to remind the Minister of what Mrs Bergström from the Green Party said earlier about the forest in Tiveden: Finally, Sveaskog changed, and there was no felling there. The same with Ojnareskogen on northern Gotland. It became a reserve instead, and the forest was protected. The Minister can act here too, for Ore Skogsrike, and I hope that the Minister and the Government will do so.
i-b06324e01eafcda3-81	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for an important discussion both about forestry policy in a broader sense and about Sveaskog, which is a unique company that we, all citizens, own together in Sweden. As Sweden's largest forest owner, we have a responsibility to build values for future generations and to make wise use of this natural resource. Sveaskog should be an example in sustainability work. I believe that it is in one's ambitions and activities, but from time to time there may be discussions if one makes the right consideration. Then you also have to listen to the authorities that are examining this. I hope and believe that we will have more discussions, not least in the run-up to the elections, about the importance of forests for sustainable development and for Sweden's economic strength. It is an important asset that Sweden should care for and manage well, and it should also do so in a rational way.
i-b06324e01eafcda3-83	Madam President, I would like Penilla Gunther has asked me how the investment in green jobs should also benefit labour-integrated social enterprises and not just the selected authorities. Job creation is not primarily targeted at job integration social enterprises. Instead, the government is making other efforts towards this group. I will briefly describe the government's commitment to green jobs and the government's efforts on social enterprise. The government wants to exploit the job potential of the green industries to create easier ways to work. For this reason, the Government has initially given a number of authorities the task of encouraging job seekers to try out tasks within the green industries through measures such as nature conservation and management within the authorities' areas of activity, preferably on public land. This can be done either through internships, modern standby jobs or other subsidised employment. At a later stage, efforts are intended to contribute to further employment in the business sector. For this work, SEK 910 million is expected to be allocated between 2018 and 2020. An important resource for meeting many societal challenges such as integration, gender equality, the environment and climate and, not least, long-term unemployment is the growing group of entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs active in what is called social enterprise. This group also includes work integration social enterprises, which have as their focus the integration of people who find it difficult to establish themselves in the labour market, in working life and in society. The government sees the potential and innovation that comes from social enterprises, but also receives signals that this sector is not always given the right conditions to contribute. The government has therefore taken a holistic approach and launched a comprehensive strategy for social enterprises – a sustainable society through social enterprise and social innovation. The strategy aims to strengthen the development of social enterprises so that they can better participate in solving societal challenges and contribute to public sector attention and use of social enterprise in the development of a sustainable society. In order to implement the strategy, the Government has decided on two assignments to the Swedish Agency for Growth and Vinnova, which is expected to receive SEK 120 million between 2018 and 2020 for investments in social entrepreneurship. The government has implemented and will also continue to implement efforts in relevant policy areas to achieve the long-term objectives of the strategy. The task of the Swedish Agency for Growth includes identifying and implementing actions that contribute to stimulating the growth of social enterprises, and Vinnova's mission includes developing impact measurement to strengthen social enterprises and making visible the value of the societal efforts that social companies contribute. The Government also decided in 2016 on a three-year assignment to the Swedish Agency for Growth in consultation with Arbetsförmedlingen, where a total of SEK 60 million has been added to employment promotion efforts through work integration social enterprises.
i-b06324e01eafcda3-89	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking the Government for its answer, although I may feel that it was partly not an answer to my question. I think the government itself realizes that. We have discussed this with efforts and the strategy in the past. The response from the Government and the Ministry states that a holistic approach has been taken in terms of labour integration social enterprises, social enterprises at large and social innovation. No, actually, you haven't. Then the whole thing has been misunderstood – which people are included in these companies, what job barriers they have and what conditions they need to be able to run companies and move from grants to self-support, which is good both for the individual and for society at large. I think it is commendable to vacuum government agencies to create easier ways to work in their businesses. The alliance government also had ambitions in this area when it wanted authorities to address people with disabilities in particular and create jobs for them. The very effort to do this with 25 to 26 authorities and to create jobs in green industries is not wrong in itself. On the other hand, I miss the holistic approach. This initiative will help to reduce the possibility for work integration social enterprises that have as their business concept to work in the green industries. Instead, they are allowed to go bankrupt. Then we won nothing. Then we'll have more people out of work because they can't work there anymore. With the situation of the Social Insurance Agency and the Employment Service, where much more need to be done to people with obstacles to employment and the long-term unemployed, this creates further frustration, not least in the labour-integrated social enterprises. Vinnova's investment in social enterprise incubators unfortunately does not benefit these companies. Then I ask myself: was there no one in the department who could see the bigger picture when this was being prepared, so that the authorities could perhaps also buy services from work-inclusive social enterprises to create these jobs?
i-b06324e01eafcda3-95	Madam President, I would like This is an important interpellation, not least because the green industries have a huge job potential. They are facing a change of generation, which today is expected to have a shortage of perhaps 3 000 people. Working with smart policies for people to get closer and be able to do jobs in the green industries is not only a way of doing some tasks in society that would otherwise not have been managed but also a way of equipping people to take new jobs in the green industries across the country. I think it is a very good initiative that the government is making, which actually scales up from some pilot initiatives that previous governments have made. Perhaps we should agree on that. When it comes to social enterprise and social innovation, I get a little nervous. Penilla Gunther and I have had this discussion before. But it's one thing to talk about social enterprise and another thing to budget money for it. Why do you want to delete the 120 million on social enterprise from the Christian Democrats' budget? I don't get it. If we have now agreed that we want to do more in this area, should we not make sure that the efforts are long-term and sustainable, so that we can change the system and so that more social enterprises actually come in? In terms of the volume of green jobs, funding is almost entirely based on extra services and emergency jobs. If these budgetary expenditures are removed, the funding for this will fall completely, and then there will be no 5 000 new jobs in the green industries. It must therefore be linked, and we must be able to make the financial effort that enables both green jobs and social entrepreneurship. I am aware that there are partly different approaches to social enterprises, even if they are linked. That's it. Work integration social enterprises have an operational idea, and some social enterprises do not have the same idea. Some have, but not all. When it comes to developing this sector, we have tried to take a grip where we are dealing with the structural problem of social enterprises, and this applies whether they are labour-integrated social enterprises or just ordinary social enterprises. The problem is to get paid and find long-term financing solutions – to work with contracts also with the public, so that you know what applies. Then the question of measuring the effect will be absolutely crucial. It is about showing the results, not only for the area of activity of the individual board, but for society as a whole, of people coming in and getting a job in a social enterprise. It can have effects in several other ways, and it is crucial for building partnerships with public and social enterprises. We chose not to spend all our money just working on projects but trying to work on the issues that people in the sector have said to us is what prevents them from becoming long-term and from knowing what conditions they have in the long term. I therefore believe that the social enterprise strategy is really important also for work-inclusive social enterprises. However, I do not think it is enough for us to stand in Parliament and have discussions about it at regular intervals, but we must also manage to budget for it in the state budget. Now we have made great efforts, and I note that the Christian Democrats choose to save on this. I think it is a pity, because I think Penilla Gunther and I usually have good discussions about the importance of social enterprises for Sweden. We must also be able to finance this.
i-b06324e01eafcda3-103	Madam President, I would like If the Government had read the whole of our budget bill, he would have seen that it said about work integration social enterprises in a number of points, not least in the texts of the budget. I'm glad to have contributed to that. However, the most important investment we make on the part of the Christian Democrats is simply that we invest money and funds where the efforts are needed. What the work-inclusive social enterprises are addressing – as I have pointed out in various contexts, not least in our previous debates – is the need to obtain income so that they can manage to have an employed manager and supervisor in these companies. I find it a little distressing that phase 3 was reduced and, in fact, more than 30 000 people were thrown out to virtually nothing. I really cannot bear to hear that the Christian Democrats would take responsibility for suddenly providing for the whole sector of labour integration. After all, it is the government that sets the strategy and puts the money in the state budget in a wrong way. What the Government says is that companies should conclude agreements and create partnerships and get paid for their products and services, and that is exactly what I have asked a question about. If we now have these authorities that are going to create the green jobs, what is it that means that they could not at the same time have used the ASF to create the jobs? If the companies had got an agreement with, for example, the Swedish Forest Agency, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency or something else, they would have helped to create these agreements – and they would have used the companies with their existing business ideas. Then they had a win-win situation instead of, as now, crowding out these companies. I find it very boring, because as I said earlier, I think the idea itself is good. I agree with the Government that we need to create more green jobs, because in this sector too, retirements will mean that we need more knowledgeable people in this area. But that is precisely what I am asking: how can work integration companies get these agreements and partnerships with public activities and get paid for their products and services if one cannot even think about the whole picture when implementing such large projects? I have calculated that it would have cost SEK 100 million to give 250 of the member companies in Skoopi, which is the association, a paid supervisor. At the same time, they had employed x thousand people in these companies. Only for this second, 910 million are set aside. I think it would be interesting to hear the Government's assessment of how much difference this 800 million in the budget line could have made if it had also invested in labour integration social enterprises.
i-b06324e01eafcda3-109	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. Jobs in green jobs are carried out to a very large extent within the framework of either extra services or modern standby jobs. That is where the funding is, and they cannot be used very much by labour-integrated social enterprises. That's how it is. Then it would be the part that is not in a market, and it will be quite little. So that's not the point. That's why you have to have a completely different system. After all, we want to get as much out as possible in as short a time as possible, and when I listen to the work-inclusive social enterprises, they say that the IOP is their way to a completely different relationship with the public. That is exactly where we focus on the strategy we are now allocating money for – and for which the Christian Democrats want to delete. The Swedish Agency for Growth has just this as a mission: to work with the actors to find better business relations and collaboration with the public, where IOP is specifically pointed out. This also applies to mandates to measure impacts and review existing funding opportunities. So that is what we are giving the money for in this strategy. The second is about measuring the effect, i.e. the mission Vinnova receives. It is clear that there is an innovation element in Vinnova's initiative, but the other is about measuring output. I believe that many social enterprises suffer from the fact that they cannot really show what effect they have on the national economy. This does not only apply in the area of the Board or whatever it is that one is currently operating, but it has a greater impact on the national economy. These are the calculations we need to draw up in order for the public to finance this over time over the long term and to show that these companies and organisations can make a big difference. I don't think you should shoot down a good idea. I see that with the Christian Democrats' draft budget it had not been possible to find these nearly 5 000 green jobs in the green industries, because the basic conditions of both the modern standby jobs and the additional services are being removed. Therefore, there is no funding for the salaries of this project. In addition, the money for the social enterprise strategy is being removed. I think it's bad. It is good to write about the social enterprises that are integrating into the text, but it would be good if it were also visible in the budget columns.
i-b06324e01eafcda3-113	Madam President, I would like I do not think that this should primarily be about the Christian Democrats' draft budget. I am proud and pleased that we have a budget that actually takes advantage of the wishes of the labour-integrated social enterprises. If the Government can't read enough in our documents, I'm willing to send them over with our investment in ASF underlined. I'd love to. Giving things without asking if there is any need for them or whether they fit is about as good as giving away a garment without knowing the size of the person to get it. In this case, the government is giving money and is satisfied with it, but has it really asked the social enterprises that are integrating into work what they want? Based on the association Skoopi's action programme, I know so well that one of the most important points – and it has been the same for all years – is to get the support for managers and supervisors. They want better contact with the public in order to be able to conclude such agreements. It has nothing to do with either your party or my party, Mikael Damberg, but it has to do with an authority that can bring about these agreements. I would like to point out that there are socio-economic accounts showing a wider social impact of precisely work-inclusive social enterprises, which I would be happy to send over if necessary. There is also a certification process in progress to ensure which work integration social enterprises are stable and sustainable.
i-b06324e01eafcda3-116	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the interpellation! I believe that many work-inclusive social enterprises and social enterprises have called for the government to take a holistic approach to the social economy. Now we are doing this for the first time, with a strategy for social enterprise and a sustainable society through social enterprise and social innovation. I believe that this means a great deal, not only because of this SEK 120 million, but also because we are focusing on the areas in which the sector has said it has problems. It is about getting long-term funding and getting recognition of the impact of the actions, both for those involved in the work and for society. We have to realise that it is if we get the ordinary system to much better understand the potential of the social sector to solve societal challenges that we get the major social changes. I think it is absolutely right that the government is now presenting for the first time a strategy for social enterprise, and I believe that this will have a long-term effect. Finally, I can mention that in the 2018 Budget Bill, the Government proposed that the Swedish Agency for Growth and Employment Services should examine the possibility of creating a quality assurance system for work integration social enterprises and thus make it easier for, among other things, Arbetsförmedlingen to be able to use the companies for more efforts within the labour market policy framework. This is also a system change that I think would be appreciated. Many have probably found it a bit complicated and tricky to come to work with Arbetsförmedlingen. We hope that this too will have a long-term beneficial effect on labour-integrated social enterprises.
i-b06324e01eafcda3-123	Madam President, I would like Sofia Fölster has asked me why I and the government are closing the door to altruistic surrogate motherhood in Sweden. The question of whether surrogate motherhood should be allowed in Sweden raises many complex ethical and legal issues. These are difficult balances between important interests, where the child and the bearer of the child are in focus, alongside people's longing to become parents. The study on increased opportunities for treatment of involuntary infertility worked several years on the issue and produced a solid basis. The investigation concluded that surrogate motherhood should not be allowed in Swedish healthcare. This view is shared by most consultation bodies. After careful consideration, the government has come to the same conclusion as the investigation. The decision to bear a child must be free from pressure, feelings of internal coercion, or hidden economic motives. Ensuring this in surrogate arrangements is very difficult, even with a careful examination. For example, it may be difficult to resist pressure to stand up as a surrogate to a loved one. Instead, if the surrogate mother is not related to the intended parents, the risk of hidden commercialisation increases. There may also be serious and harmful conflicts – not least for the child – if one of the parties changes their mind. I understand that there are involuntary childless people who are disappointed that the government is not opening up surrogate motherhood in Swedish health care. At the same time, I hope and believe that there is an understanding of our assessment on this very difficult issue.
i-b06324e01eafcda3-129	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. In this debate it often appears that we are talking about being for or against surrogate motherhood, but the fact is that today there are very many Swedish children who are added through surrogate arrangements. At least 50 children per year are added by Swedish couples going abroad to take the help of a surrogate mother. It is about involuntary childless heterosexual or homosexual couples who have very few other opportunities. At the same time, many of these couples say that they have a loved one who, for altruistic reasons – because this loved one loves someone – would have wanted to be a surrogate mother if this possibility had been legal in Sweden. It becomes incredible to me why the government with this decision continues to force couples abroad when the same child could have been born in Sweden in a medically safer way – with the care we have in Sweden – and in a more legally secure way. We could set the high standards that we want to set and which should be imposed on all parties in surrogate arrangements. Above all, this could happen without involving money. The Minister refers to the fact that this would be difficult, as if it were something new that there was a risk of pressure. At the same time, surrogate motherhood exists in many other countries and also in many comparable countries. There are in Denmark, Iceland, the United Kingdom and Holland, to name but a few. Research in this area clearly shows that the women who are surrogate mothers are doing well, that children are doing well, and that there are few or no signs that surrogate mothers have been subjected to any form of pressure or pressure. One can – once again – question the view that pressure would be involved in altruistic surrogate motherhood. This is what we are talking about right now. If this opinion is not based on any form of study, then it must be based on some other kind of opinion. I am rather tired of many discussions about women and about women's ability to make their own decisions about their own body landing in the fact that there must be pressure and that there must be someone else in charge. Instead of daring to admit that women are capable of making decisions about their bodies in exactly the same way as men. It's this kind of victim mentality-- where we say that women aren't capable of making decisions about their own body or about their own life-- that's been holding back women for years. I think it goes without saying that women are capable of making decisions about their own life and their own body – for example this kind of decision. One should know that in those countries that allow surrogate motherhood there are solid trials of both physical and mental health. For example, the surrogate mother should have given birth to her own children and not want to have more children and had uncomplicated pregnancies. The demands that are being made are therefore extremely high. It also depends a little on what it looks like in different countries. What I propose and would like to see is an altruistic surrogate motherhood in Sweden, without money involved and with high demands on all parties, so that we can guarantee a legally secure and medically secure process. On what basis does the minister feel that pressure would be involved in altruistic surrogate motherhood? I would like an answer, which I did not feel I had earlier. Is there a study on that, or what is the minister basing this on? I also wonder why the Minister thinks it is better for Swedish couples to go abroad than for them to go through a more legally secure process in Sweden.
i-b06324e01eafcda3-142	Madam President, I would like Some issues raised in this House are more complex and complex than others, not least with regard to serious ethical dilemmas surrounding life and death. A short time ago another such issue was raised here concerning the right to a dignified death, known as euthanasia. This question is about the birth of life, about children who can come into existence through surrogate motherhood. First of all, I would like to thank Sofia Fölster for raising the issue in Parliament. The fact that a question is difficult does not in any way mean that there is no need to discuss it, rather the opposite. There are different perspectives on this. Firstly, it is of course about the bearer of the child during pregnancy, partly about those who long to become parents and, of course, also about the child himself in the case that it is born. This is an issue that has been discussed in recent years. It was the subject of an investigation and has been up to the voices and congresses of many parties, as well as in my party, the Green Party. We had it up for discussion at our congress in 2015. The party board then referred to the investigation that, among many other issues, concerned surrogate motherhood. The inquiry Various paths to parenthood were presented quite exactly two years ago, in February 2016. Unfortunately, the investigation did not make any proposals for regulation, but merely stated that it should not be allowed in Sweden. Madam President, I would like It's not a right to have children. But my personal opinion is that adult child-longing people who are not unfit should be able to get support to become parents. Such support may take a number of different forms. Insemination and donation work for some, adoption is better for others. But for others, the surrogate motherhood method could be the best way. Of course, it is not just about those who want to be parents or about the bearer. An important aspect is also the children who actually come into being in this way, regardless of whether this is regulated or not. Even when this is not regulated, there are children coming into the world in this way. The risk, as I see it, is that an overly negative attitude from society to surrogate motherhood leads to the stigmatisation of children who come into existence in this way and who will then grow up. Madam President, I would like Of course, it is of the utmost importance that no woman ever be pressured to carry a child that she does not want to carry. Of course, the decision must be a hundred percent her own. It is no simple matter to carry a child; it is not harmless or safe in any way. However, it is safer in Sweden than in many other countries here on earth. The fact that something is not safe or that it is difficult does not mean that the solution is to ban it. I would have liked a more definitive attitude from the government on this issue.
i-b06324e01eafcda3-151	Madam President, I would like I note that Sofia Fölster goes out very hard in this debate and does so with simple expressions. If it had been as simple as Sofia Fölster describes it, I cannot fail to say that the bourgeois government had at some point in its eight years put forward the proposals that Sofia Fölster describes as being so simple to implement. What the bourgeois government did was to initiate an investigation, an investigation which in itself was an order of the Riksdag and which has worked for several years to analyse, consider and carefully discuss, among other things, the proposal for surrogate motherhood. The investigation concluded that surrogate motherhood should not be allowed in Swedish healthcare. I think you should have respect for the complexity of the issue. Just as Rasmus Ling expresses, it's not just a matter of--and it's not just a childless couple who wants a child with their whole heart. It is also about the child who will come and also about the woman who will bring the child to this childless couple. There are many different interests that must be taken into account and carefully considered in every way if, like Sofia Fölster, you do not just want to say yes. It is a question of carefully considering all the ethically difficult assessments that need to be made. I would like to take this opportunity to ask a question back. I think there is a need for some reflection in this kind of debate. What does Sofia Fölster think that you should answer questions like what happens if the woman who will present the child regrets, if she presents a child that she experiences week after week becomes more and more her own child? What happens if the child has a severe illness? We know such cases in other countries. In one case, a woman brought forth twins, and the childless couple chose one twin out because it was not healthy and brought a child home. What happens if a pregnant woman finds out that she wants to use her abortion right? What happens in such a relationship? Are these questions that Sofia Fölster has considered when she can so easily express that this can be said yes to directly? It has been important for the government to land, based on the assessment of the investigation, in a conclusion on surrogate arrangements where we carefully considered this possibility.
i-b06324e01eafcda3-157	Madam President, I would like No, of course, that is not an easy question, and it was not meant to be so. On the other hand, there are many myths and prejudices that often govern the debate. It makes me extremely tired, and it was some of these that I tried to respond to. What did the Moderates do? Well, the Moderates set up an investigation, not if but how surrogate motherhood should be introduced in Sweden. That was a very clear focus. That is why the investigation included a majority of lawyers and not a majority of gynecologists, for example. However, the gynecologist who sat in the investigation, the only one in the investigation who has worked with involuntary childless, was the person who argued for a yes to surrogate motherhood, which is important to point out. The sources to which the investigation refers, as well as the National Medical Council, also land in a yes, if we are to talk about ethical issues. It is therefore a fairly well-known and well-thought-out area. Many of the questions that the Minister is now asking are answered in precisely the sources to which the investigation refers and also in other countries. On the question of abortion, for example, it is obvious that the woman, who has the right to her own body, always has the opportunity to have an abortion regardless of whose child it becomes in the end. Many of these issues have been resolved in other countries. It's just a matter of opening your eyes and looking outside Sweden, so we can come up with an answer to many of these questions. I cannot understand why we should continue to take the easy path and turn a blind eye to all the couples who go abroad and the more than 50 children per year born through surrogate arrangements abroad, when we could do this even more legally in Sweden and set exactly the high standards that we want on this process. There are many other situations where you can talk about pressure. Could a woman be put under pressure to have an abortion, for example? No, we say clearly that it is the woman's own decision and that she is capable of making decisions about her own body. A nearby example that is allowed in Sweden is uterine transplantation. It's not about a disease or something you need to survive, it's just about the possibility of having a baby. Here a loved one chooses altruistically and only because he cares about another person to donate his womb and undergo surgery that is much more risky than carrying the child himself to allow another person to have a baby. This is happening in Sweden at the same time as we close the door for surrogate motherhood. Of course, this discussion is not simple. There are many difficult balances. Above all, we need to think about what high standards we should set for this process to take place and what demands we should make on surrogate mothers, parents and everyone involved. For me, however, it is easy to note that many Swedish couples are involuntaryly childless. Many of them also go to countries where we have no control over how this process is done. They go to countries where they also pay money, which increases the risk to everyone involved that things are not going right. We could have done the same process here in Sweden, much more medically safe and legally secure. At the same time, it is a matter of principle. If we stand up because women are entitled to their own body and have the right to make their own decisions on abortion and uterine transplantation, we must do the same in the matter of being surrogate mother.
i-b06324e01eafcda3-167	Madam President, I would like The Government of Heléne Fritzon issues good counter-questions to Sofia Fölster. What happens if someone who carries a child repents? What happens if the child turns out to have severe diseases? To what extent should you look at how the child is feeling during pregnancy? What if they're twins? These are many and difficult questions. However, as I see it, the solution to difficult issues is not to not deal with them or not to have regulations for this. Even now there are children who come to be in this way, and then it is for me a better solution to have a regulatory framework that answers precisely the difficult questions that the Government addresses than not to have. There is also reason to look more closely at how this works in other countries. We do not need to go further than Denmark, 15– 20 minutes from Sweden, to see what it looks like there and what we can learn from them. Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for bringing the debate to an end. There will be reason to return to this issue many times, because it is an issue that will not disappear but will be relevant to many people in the future.
i-b06324e01eafcda3-171	Madam President, I would like First, a brief feedback to Sofia Fölster who concludes her latest post with women having the right to their own body. Yes, women do, and that is perhaps one of the most important reasons why the government does not go forward with the proposal on surrogate motherhood. Sofia Fölster says that many other countries have this and are fortunate in it. I see a lot of problems with many international agreements on the basis of exactly what has been described in this debate: how is this relationship regulated? Less than half of the EU Member States allow surrogate motherhood and experience varies. Sofia Fölster asks how we view the children who have come to Sweden through international surrogate motherhood to live here. These are about 50 children per year. It is of course important that these children receive the same legal status as any other child. No child in Sweden who has been created by such an arrangement has become either orphan or stateless. Speaking of this with myths and reality, it is important to know that such is the reality of the children who come into being through international agreements on surrogate motherhood. We have talked a lot about childless couples' opportunities to become parents, and the Red-Green Government has in many ways expanded these opportunities. Among other things, the government and parliament have made it possible for single people to obtain assisted fertilization. The government has also recently presented a legislative referral proposing to abolish the requirement for a genetic link between the child and a parent in assisted conception. This proposal also provides for the possibility of carrying out such fertilisation outside the body with donated germ cells in addition to university hospitals. These proposals will enable more involuntary childless people to become parents. In addition, we also have a legislative referral on more modern rules for adoption. Adoption is a unique opportunity for childless couples to become parents. We are putting forward proposals for the equality of cohabiting couples with married couples, and we are refraining from introducing an upper age limit and saying that age should be included in an overall assessment. All of this means that with a number of reforms we are increasing the opportunities for childless people to become the most wonderful thing of all: parents.
i-b06324e01eafcda3-180	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that it is good that the government is making a number of other proposals on how to make it easier for involuntary childless couples to have children. Many of the proposals we agree on. However, these proposals partly concern other types of couples, and a number of proposals are not possible for those couples whose only possibility is surrogate motherhood, such as homosexual couples, where the opportunities are extremely small. With regard to adoption, for example, no countries are allowing homosexual couples to adopt at present, and this is an extremely difficult issue for that very reason. We can stand here and talk about a lot of hypothetical scenarios – what would happen this or so – but the fact is that this is about real couples, real families and real children that are added through surrogate motherhood in Sweden. Quite a few Swedish couples go abroad every year. I believe that, instead of continuing to force these couples to go abroad and accept that we have no control over how the processes take place, that there is money involved and that in some cases there are legal insecure processes, we have an opportunity to introduce altruistic surrogate motherhood in Sweden and set the high standards that we want. I think that this should be enough to review this possibility somewhat more carefully or at least not just put a stop to it but try to find a solution for these couples. The alternative is to continue forcing them abroad, and at least I do not understand why the government is choosing. Then I want to make it clear that it's about the woman's own body. Even if you make a decision that may go against the norm and what is traditionally viable, such as becoming a surrogate mother, it is a decision of your own that a woman herself must be given the opportunity to make. This is important.
i-b06324e01eafcda3-185	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the interpeller for the interpellation. It is an urgent and important question how we can make it easier for childless couples to become parents in every way. With regard to the proposal on surrogate motherhood that Sofia Fölster represents, we have completely different views. I note that these are difficult and very complex ethical issues where we do not have the necessary answers to whose right we are to represent. Is it the right for the childless couple, the child to be born or the woman to bear the child? I am pleased that the government, after a careful assessment, has landed in the investigation's proposal not to allow surrogate motherhood in Swedish healthcare today. Although Sofia Fölster, as I understand it, represents the Moderates in the debate, I note that there is no majority in Parliament for such a proposal. There is another party, but if I understand correctly, there is no agreement within the alliance group on the proposal on surrogate motherhood. I think it is wise that a careful assessment should be made and that the proposal in Sweden should not be taken forward at this stage.
