i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-3	Mr President, I would like to Now, as we have just heard, we are going to debate four migration reports. I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposals in the reports on Migration and Asylum Policy, Family Immigration and Citizenship and the rejection of all reservations in these three reports. It is worth noting that in these reports the alliance parties do not have a single joint reservation. Mathias Tegnér will come up later in the debate on the last report on labour immigration. Migration in the world is increasing, and Sweden is part of that development. The long-term sustainability and legal certainty of migration policies that safeguard the right to asylum is a prerequisite for managing these developments in the long term. Asylum law is a fundamental right enshrined in international conventions. The measures taken in a very strained situation a few years ago were necessary. The temporary law on restrictions on the possibility of obtaining a residence permit in Sweden, which is the law that we are now dealing with migration issues, applies until 19 July 2019. This, together with political changes in other countries and within the EU, resulted in significantly fewer people applying for asylum in Sweden in 2016 and 2017. In 2016, the number of asylum seekers was 29,000 and in 2017 26,000. In 2017, more than 48,000 first-time residence permits were granted when it comes to family migration. If the relatives of migrant workers and guest students are included, the number is over 62,000. Never before have so many people been granted a residence permit in Sweden as relatives as in 2017, probably because more than 160 000 people applied for asylum in Sweden in 2015. In 2016, over 70 000 people received a residence permit on grounds of protection or equivalent grounds. The need for protection in the EU remains. In the future, people will still need to seek protection from wars, conflicts and unforeseen events that may occur. This means that developments may change rapidly, not least in the neighbourhood of the EU. It is therefore important to closely monitor developments and consider the need for measures to be well equipped for both times when it will be given and times when there will be many asylum seekers. Mr President, I would like to Within the EU, major efforts are under way to reform the Common European Asylum System. Sweden is a driving force in this work, in particular to ensure that human rights are respected and that the right to seek asylum is guaranteed. Entering a country to seek asylum is a human right under Article 14 of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. However, being granted asylum and possibly declared a refugee is not a human right. This decision is an exclusive right of the State whose territory the asylum seeker is in. The measures needed to maintain regulated immigration while safeguarding the right to asylum with a good reception and establishment capacity are important and necessary. We will strive for broad support for this. Sweden has taken a great deal of responsibility in the global refugee situation. We will continue to do so, but more countries need to do more. Under the Temporary Act, a residence permit granted to a refugee or an alternative need for protection must be limited in time. As a rule, if a new residence permit is granted, the new permit shall also be limited in time. If the person can support himself or herself, he or she can obtain a permanent permit. Quota refugees are not covered by the Temporary Act and continue to receive permanent residence permits. The temporary law also limits the right to family reunification for persons other than those with refugee status. I know, of course, that the members of the committee are well aware of this, but I am still raising it because I assume that there are more people listening to our debate today. Despite the temporary law and border controls, Sweden still has a relatively large number of asylum seekers. Sweden was the seventh largest country of destination in the EU in total last year and had per capita more asylum seekers than Germany. The number of participants in the Migration Agency's reception system continues to decrease and thus the Migration Agency's need for accommodation. The Finnish Immigration Service is therefore now carrying out a phase-out of primarily temporary housing. Many parameters need to be taken into account in the closure of housing, such as the difficulty of moving people who have started to establish themselves in a locality. I am convinced that the Migration Agency intends to implement the settlements in the best possible way for all concerned. At the same time, the Finnish Immigration Service will reduce its staff by 3 000 posts – from more than 8 000 to more than 5 000. Reductions are planned in all six regions of the Agency. The Finnish Immigration Service currently operates at 86 locations in the country. The reduction will be great, but the Migration Board will continue to be well represented throughout the country; it is a prerequisite. Mr President, I would like to In parallel with the reductions, a high level of capacity is still needed for those parts of the activity linked to the final steps of the asylum process: residence, detention, return and judicial review. Detention capacity and management process are proposed to grow to a lesser extent in 2018. When the government took office there were 257 detention places in the country. Up to now, there has been an increase of 40% in detention places. This year there will be a total of 100 seats. Return issues are prioritised by the government given that many people have received or are expected to receive a expulsion decision in the coming years. The assessment is that there is a need for more detention places, and this is what is behind the expansion. Even more detention sites will be put into service in 2019 and 2020. In order to maintain a long-term sustainable and humane migration policy, it is crucial that people who, after a legal review for asylum reasons, have received a refusal decision return as quickly as possible. The aim is for as many people as possible to return on their own, but for those who do not, enforcement may have to be done with the help of the Police Authority. We Social Democrats, and hence the government, are behind the EU's partnership framework for migration cooperation with third countries and priorities for life-saving action, combating trafficking in human beings and the return and reintegration of migrants who do not have protection needs. An important component of this is to increase resettlement. It is important that there are legal ways of obtaining protection. Furthermore, resettlement is a well-proven path. The government has therefore agreed with the bourgeois parties to increase the number of quota refugees gradually. From 2018, Sweden will resettle 5,000 people per year. Sweden will continue to push for an increased number of quota locations within the EU and globally. In this respect, it is necessary to work closely with UNHCR and IOM. At present, resettlement represents a fraction of the number of asylum seekers coming to Europe. However, our view is that resettlement cannot replace an asylum system within the EU.
i-75fSWc3pRNmTjWKR1XdHkN	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 59 in SfU15, reservation 10 in SfU16, reservations 1 and 8 in SfU17 and reservation 5 in SfU18. We're going against Easter. The parliamentary year is not yet completely over, but with today's debate on no less than four migration reports, there is still reason to think a little bit about what the last three and a half years have been like. It has, to say the least, been a very special time in the Swedish Parliament. There have been many changes, a great uncertainty and a sharp throw. This is probably most obvious in the area of migration policy, where major changes have taken place and where the journey here has been anything but a straight line. After having first said no to any changes in the asylum rules, such as temporary residence permits, Stefan Löfven chose to even state that Europe would not build any walls to just a few weeks later turn 180 degrees and tighten the regulatory framework in a temporary legislation that we still have. The sharpenings were justified, and we chose from the Moderates to approve them. They were absolutely necessary both to reduce the very large reception of asylum and to put the situation in order. Of course, it would have been preferable for the changes to have taken place gradually. This would have improved legislation and would have provided better planning conditions for authorities, civil society and, not least, asylum seekers. For this short-termness, the then alliance government also bears a responsibility, although the situation during the alliance years was fundamentally different from that we have experienced during this term of office. Yet these experiences point to something important, namely that Swedish migration policy has never really been forced to take a position on the really difficult issues of what is precisely our fellow human responsibility in the world or on the question of what Sweden needs and what we ourselves can handle. Short-sightedness has been reversed with an inability to address the difficult with such important questions. Rather, it has become as it has become. But migration policy is far too important to just let things go the way they do. And now that we are going to take a position on a large number of new proposals, there is reason to consider what lessons we can learn from the past few years. For me, the single most important conclusion is that Sweden needs a migration policy that is well thought out, that is long-term and that is at a level where we can actually manage the integration of those who come to our country. By well thought out, I mean precisely that migration policy must be based on some fundamental principles that stand out over time and that can be trusted. One such thing is, of course, that Sweden should help people in need. Anyone who is unmoved by the suffering that exists in the world, with wars and terrible acts, cannot be human. Of course, Sweden cannot do everything – we are a small country in a big world. But we can do something. Protecting people who are fleeing is a response, but we also need to recognise that migration policy is part of a wider whole, in which, not least, aid policy has an important role to play, as well as efforts towards democracy, free trade and a market economy in order for fewer people to have to leave their home countries because of poverty. In this context, I would like to highlight the initiative that we Moderates have taken to create a completely new asylum system that is more humane and long-term than we have today. With asylum testing in safe zones outside the EU's borders, people do not have to make the death trips across the Mediterranean that have only taken several thousand lives over the past year. It will also be easier to give priority to those who actually have the greatest need for protection. Of course, all major changes meet both criticism and questions. I will be happy to answer these questions, just as the one who in practice accepts the current system must answer questions about the reasonableness of people having to make themselves dependent on refugee smugglers in order to be able to apply for asylum. Mr President, I would like to Another important principle is that the asylum system should focus on what it was once created for: to grant protection to fugitives from war and persecution. The right of asylum does not exist for a lot of other reasons, but it aims to do just that: to provide protection to people on the run. Everything can be better, but we have a legally secure asylum trial in Sweden, with the examination of authorities that make their own assessments. Those who are not satisfied with their decision can turn to a court and have their case heard – it is exactly as it should be. Of course, this does not mean that all those who perceive themselves as having protection reasons will actually be granted asylum. That is not the case in any country. I understand that sometimes it can be difficult for the individual to take it to heart. Yet laws and rules must in fact be respected. Those who are not granted a residence permit must return home. Then you have to come as labour immigrants instead. It is an area where the needs are very great in the future. We shall protect the individual asylum examination in Sweden and, not least for reasons of legal certainty, avoid broad amnesties. I am also very critical of the bill presented by the government, in which 9 000 people who have been refused or expected to receive asylum applications will be excluded by a separate solution for that particular group. That is precisely why the asylum instrument, which aims to help the fugitive, is being eroded. The price for this will be a deterioration of legal certainty, where it can no longer be trusted that a 'no' is really a 'no', as well as that one group will be faced with other groups who have also been rejected and who also feel that they should have been allowed to stay. It is no wonder that criticism of this proposal has been very tough, not only from the police but also from the Migration Agency. Perhaps the most serious criticism comes from those responsible for interpreting the legislation, namely the national courts. This is what happens when the political proposals are no longer based on principles but only on avoiding government crises. Mr President, I would like to Let me return to what I said – that migration policy must be long-term! This means that the time for sharp throws must be over. To be clear: Sweden cannot have a fundamentally different migration policy than other countries in Europe. We cannot go back to the order in which Sweden in practice had more generous rules in all areas than all other EU countries. That's out of the question for us Moderates. The principles underlying the temporary law should therefore be established. These include temporary residence permits as a general rule and stricter requirements for family migration. We Moderates have also presented a number of further tightenings which go beyond the temporary law and which we believe are necessary, such as a sharper supply requirement, which is central both to the protection of taxpayers' money and to strengthening the conditions for integration and self-sufficiency. Another example is the rules for Swedish citizenship. We want to enhance Swedish citizenship. We want it to mean more than today. For this, we also want to make greater demands, both in terms of normal time, in order to become a citizen and in terms of the skills to be required. Take such a thing as that you should know a little Swedish if you have the ambition to become a citizen here! This does not mean that you are not allowed to speak other languages in Sweden – vice versa. But it makes it easier for a small country in which ours can actually understand and understand the national language, not least when it comes to taking advantage of the rights of citizenship, such as the right to vote. In the same way, it is perfectly reasonable to also know a little about what is to become your new home country. This is also the rule rather than the exception in the world around us. Mr President, I would like to Migration and integration must be seen together. Only those who refuse to take the impression of reality believe that our ability to help people escape is completely independent of whether we manage to achieve the integration of those who come to our country or not. I believe that this is a cornerstone for us to be able to help people in need in the long term. Several things are needed here. With the situation we have today, with a very high reception in a very short time, I think it will be necessary to pursue a tight migration policy. I believe that it is necessary to seek a lower level of reception in the coming years than we have today. Then laws and rules must be designed with it in the back of the head. Despite the tightening up that has taken place, we still have a reception that, in a historical context, is at a normal level, perhaps just above and below. At the same time, I would like to emphasise that achieving integration is far more than just a tight migration policy. There are those who claim that immigration is always too large. For them, immigration is always synonymous with problems. It is not the extent of immigration that is critical – it is immigration itself that is the problem for them. We Moderates do not share the dystopian view either on Sweden or on the future, for the future is never given in advance. The alienation we see today in the group of foreign born is too great. It will be even bigger in the future if we do not tackle the problems but hide behind a Swedish economy, which is currently experiencing boom and good growth. But of course it is possible to change if we manage to change Swedish policy with a focus on, for example, grant ceilings, a stronger work line, lower thresholds to the labour market, better conditions for entrepreneurship, investment in more knowledge in school, strengthened security through more police officers and stricter penalties for those who commit crimes. We Moderates are not against immigration or immigrants. What we are opposed to is a migration and integration policy that is short-term, with poor results and which has all too often led to dependency on subsidies, exclusion and insecurity. We are neither one of those who see no borders at all for how many people a small country like Sweden can receive or those who see borders as the only answer to how to deal with integration problems. Sweden deserves better and more thought-out answers than that. Mr President, I would like to Let me conclude by saying a few words about labour migration. Swedish companies operate in international markets and must be able to recruit skills from all over the world. Today we literally throw out highly educated immigrants who work here and who support themselves. It's a headless policy. The Alliance has been pointing this out for a long time, and it has taken the government a long time to realise that the problems with current legislation on labour immigration may be something other than the exploitation of individual workers. Not infrequently, this is about people who are highly educated and well paid. They want to be in Sweden and work, for example in the IT sector, where there is a great shortage today, but they are still forced to leave the country. In fact, not deporting coveted employees due to minor errors is just a hygiene factor. Therefore, those of us who want Sweden to be attractive for talent and expertise to apply to, ask us how Sweden can become more attractive for labour migration in the future. Here we Moderates have proposed, among other things, special talent visas for highly skilled workers. It is a model that exists in several other countries and is a way for Sweden to take a step forward. I am also pleased that today we have received an announcement on shorter processing times. It is unreasonable for so many companies to describe one and the same problem, namely that this often takes very many months. As a small nation in a competitive market, we must be able to do better than that. We should not be Europe's average; we should have the ambition to be the best.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-46	Mr President, I would like to I felt compelled to take a reply to Johan Forssell, because he mentioned that he would be happy to answer questions about the right to asylum. First of all, I would like to make a few comments. In my speech, I mentioned how important it is to follow migratory waves and people's flight in order to be able to conduct a long-term policy. As Johan Forssell mentioned, we and the previous government should have seen what was happening in the past. That's where we're in complete agreement. If we had had a little more premonitions, perhaps we would not have had to have the kind of temporary legislation that we have today. There I could hear that Johan Forssell was self-critical about the previous government's migration policy. This is why I would like to ask my questions. How do the Moderates and Johan Forssell intend to work towards a common migration policy? It is necessary if you are to have a long-term perspective. From what I can read in the reports, there is no consensus in the alliance parties. Nor do we agree on the right of asylum and on how it should be done. I also wonder about what Johan Forssell is talking about, namely that if you do not apply for asylum, you can become an immigrant worker. I think it is a little roughly described, in order to apply for asylum as a refugee for refugee reasons is quite different from labour immigration. I'd like to hear a little more about it.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-51	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Carina Ohlsson, for the question. I think it is important to be self-critical in order to draw the right conclusions in the future. I do not think that anyone who has followed the migration debate in recent years has been able to miss the fact that we Moderates have been self-critical on a number of points. On the other hand, I have never heard any Social Democrats be self-critical at all in terms of what has happened in the past. This is really the first time I have heard an ounce of self-criticism from you, from Carina Ohlsson. If you listen to the Prime Minister and the Minister for Migration, you never hear this. There is the history description such that everything was miserable before the change of power in 2014, and then everything has become very good. I do not think that this is a very serious attitude towards politics. I do not think it is so black or white, but of course everyone has to answer for himself. On the question of coherence, one can well first consider how coherent the government is. It is possible that the government has now agreed on a position in this – it is precisely the High School Act. However, this is only because the Social Democrats are completely devoting themselves to the Green Party and have now adopted a completely different view from what was previously the case. They argue with force in the opposite direction compared to how they argued with the same force just a few months ago. That is the price that the Social Democrats are paying in that case for having completely changed their minds. I believe in the Alliance. It's our government option. We will present joint responses. In this, we have also extended one hand to the Social Democrats and said that migration policy is so important that it deserves precisely a cross-block response. Let the Alliance and the Social Democrats try to agree on this, we have said. We have been talking about this for a year and I have still not heard the Social Democrats raise it and say yes. It would therefore be well-lucky if Carina Ohlsson could sort this out right now.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-57	Mr President, I would like to It was considerate of Johan Forssell to say that everyone has to answer for themselves. That's exactly what I'm doing here. That's what I'm responsible for myself. I'm not a minister of migration or a prime minister. I ask these questions, because I think it would be commendable if Johan Forssell could tell us how to apply for asylum in Sweden. In the speaker's chair I heard him say that then you can instead seek as labour immigrants. Should people on refugee grounds, on the run from war, change their minds on the road and say that yes, I can probably not get asylum, but I say that I am a labour immigrant? I do not think it is humane or humane, nor do I think it complies with the conventions that we have jointly signed. If it is the case that Johan Forssell wants a collaboration and a discussion, it feels like this issue is in focus. The position of the Moderates differs from that of the other alliance parties, but not from that of the Swedish Democrats, and that is why I am asking the question of the right to seek asylum. We try in every way, just as you did in government, to rule and have a government basis. We do not agree on every single issue, but these reports show that you do not agree in the alliance parties on one issue or on the most fundamental right to asylum. That's why I asked the questions: How will that happen? You're supposed to sort at the border? Johan Forssell says that there should be large facilities – I guess outside Europe or in North Africa. Where are they going to be, and how are we going to do that?
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-62	Mr President, I would like to I can honestly say that I do not quite understand Carina Ohlsson's question. There are many different things that are mixed. But I'm gonna try to figure out a few things. We Moderates are responsible for regulated immigration, where there is a difference between reasons of protection and not grounds of protection. That is what you Social Democrats usually say you do, but in practice you then put forward proposals in the Chamber that go in the opposite direction. This applies, for example, to the 9 000 people who do not have grounds for protection and have been refused and are still to be granted a residence permit, while those who have returned home and complied with Swedish legislation should not be considered. You send a signal that you should not comply with Swedish laws and regulations, because then you get a residence permit. We say that if you do not have protection reasons and have received no, you are welcome to Sweden as, for example, labour immigrants. It does not oppose the right of asylum in any way, but it is an opportunity that already exists today. We think that Sweden needs more labour migration, and we see it as something positive. We do not share the picture that has been valid during the term of office that labour migration should always be synonymous with cheating and exploitation. We believe that Sweden needs this. Just look at some of the world's most dynamic economies; they are built on labour migration. We would like to see more of that. It is not just a question of preventing people from being expelled because of almost minor errors, but a question of thinking about how the regulatory framework can be improved for labour migration in the future. It should be orderly, for example, the talent visa we have proposed for highly skilled workers. In addition, we have initiated a debate on the future of the asylum system. It is not possible to have what today is where people are going to make these death trips across the Mediterranean. It is not long-term, sustainable or humane. We want a system of safe zones. It can be described as an extension of the agreement that the European Union has with Turkey today and which I believe the Social Democrats are behind. The asylum procedure takes place there at a much earlier stage. Then you can think about the extent of the reception, and there you can think differently. As a model, however, we believe that this would be much better than what exists today.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-66	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for our reservations to be approved. I would like to make it simple by calling for the approval of reservation 2 in all four reports and for reservation 60 in the SfU15. As I said, we have a huge debate on four different reports relating to migration issues. In recent years, and especially this year, it has become more and more interesting to stand here as a Swedish Democrat and hear how more and more people actually come to their senses. Now we are beginning to talk more and more openly about being self-critical and that it has gone wrong. We just heard a change of line that began with the fact that if the changes had been made earlier, perhaps the current situation would not have prevailed and that it was good that the Moderates and the Social Democrats agreed on that. I can say that the Swedish Democrats also agree that the changes should have been made much earlier. As far as migration is concerned, for obvious reasons such as the situation of refugees in the world and in our country today, the focus tends to be much on the reception of asylum and the refugee situation worldwide and how best to help. There is a tendency to move in a more reasonable direction. We have just heard the Moderates talk about the inhumane nature of today's asylum system, which basically keeps life alive and encourages dangerous travel and to turn to refugees smugglers. These trips open the door to people who have no asylum grounds for various reasons joining refugee flows to try to get to other parts of the world. At best, it is only to create a better life, at worst to try to take other ideas and values with them and to spread the way they think should govern the world. We have seen terrorist acts and other things, unfortunately, entering parts of the world that have previously been spared from such phenomena and ideas. It is interesting that the right to asylum is still being maintained in some way in the future. The Social Democrats say that resettlement is a good system to be extended, but it should not be at the expense of the asylum system. Surely the Moderates want at least the first control elsewhere, such as the extension of the Turkey system we have just heard about. But it should still be an asylum examination, and then perhaps the extent of the reception should be reviewed. The basic idea is still that the real aid is given through reception here. The Swedish Democrats have a different view of how we best help the world's vulnerable refugees. If we look at the situation around the world, it is not those close to us, nor those close to Europe, who may always be most vulnerable. It is not necessarily a move to Europe or the West that helps best. We give the best help by ensuring the possibility of living in refugee camps, to get food through, for example, the World Food Programme, which now again risks being completely withdrawn because it lacks resources. Furthermore, it is a question of rebuilding countries, stabilising countries and increasing trade with countries so that they can rise from their vulnerable situations. In addition, it is a matter of ensuring that people can live in the best possible way in places where there are problems today, not in principle fattening further expulsions. That's actually what happens when you focus on helping the few who get here. Nor is it about helping such and so many people, and then the rest of them are on their own. We want to help for real by making a difference in the world. That is what distinguishes our refugee policy from that of the other parties in this House. We are looking at the long-term development of the world and not just how to deal with what is happening here. Then I'll go over to what applies to how the reception is handled here. After all, people are coming here today. I note that today the Receiving Investigation is being presented and presented properly. Discussion articles have already been written in DN by those who have conducted the investigation. I have read a lot, but I have not had time to read in detail – I have this debate now. However, I note that the investigation says many things that we have said. Once again, it is a matter of receiving government funding. There should be mandatory arrival centres where you get basic information. The first reception shall take place under the authority of the State. It should not be steered out and placed on the responsibility of municipalities. With regard to those who are refused and to be expelled, it is proposed, once again, in practice state storage centres. It is state housing where those who have expulsion decisions or expulsion decisions should live so that it is then possible to execute expulsions. This is again something that we from the Swedish Democrats have talked about. Both of these things, perhaps not exactly identical in detail to the way the Reception Inquiry proposes, have been addressed in the two reservations that I have called for in report 15 dealing with asylum issues. We propose transit centres where refugees are received and where an initial assessment is made. One can quickly reject those who obviously come from safe countries and who do not have protection reasons and so on. In fact, we believe that asylum should not be granted in Sweden at all, as long as none of our neighbours are in such a situation that Sweden is the closest country. But until those rules change, you should at least be able to make the first assessment at the border. We propose in reservation 60 that there should be detention facilities. Not only should there be more detention places, but everyone who receives expulsion decisions should be taken care of. Not everyone found in the country who is staying illegally should be allowed to stay in the country illegally. If they do not have the right to reside in Sweden, they must be separated from Swedish society. If they cannot be expelled directly, they should live in a place where we have control over where these people are. It is the only way to uphold our rules and laws in our country. The report deals with what has already been known in our policy. In the reservation, we highlight the need for further awareness campaigns abroad to counteract the impulses to try to go to Sweden. We see that it is still going on – despite the fact that it has become something better. We're talking about criminalising aid to stay in the country illegally. As with other things when helping people to break Swedish laws and regulations, we believe that it should be illegal to help people stay here illegally. We are talking about the need for age tests to be further strengthened. In particular, those who have their age registered as children should not live with those whom they have been identified as children because they are not certain whether they are adults or children. In that case, you have to have an intermediate position, a special accommodation, for those of unclear age to protect those who are actually children from having to live with people who may be adults. Above all, it should be made clear and stated that it is the person applying for a residence permit in Sweden who is responsible for making their identity and their reasons probable. It is not the Swedish state that should start from everything that is said from the beginning and then try to refute it if you suspect that there is no basis for it. Mr President, I would like to As I said, there are several reports. Even when it comes to family immigration, the Swedish Democrats have a number of proposals. Some we share, in all to some extent, with among the other Moderates. It is a question of tightening supply requirements. We are also talking about all kinds of residence permits being valid only as long as the reasons remain. As long as you're not a citizen, but you're here as a relative, we assume that the relationship will last. If it doesn't hold, we'll see what happens at that point. If you do not have a job or have applied to stay in the country for another reason, the question is whether you should stay in the country if the relationship no longer exists. Therefore, it is also reasonable to check that there are no marriages of convenience and so on. Here I would like to point out that there is, of course, development potential even among the Swedish Democrats. We heard earlier that people have talked about how to cooperate with parties that may not always feel the same. I can say this: You can listen to each other and hear what is highlighted. We've done that. We have a common reservation with the Christian Democrats that you should check and take records of all those who want to bring a relative here to enlighten those who come here. For example, you, the man you want to move to, are actually a wife abuser from before. Are you sure you feel safe about this? ..................................................... We have also chosen to ask for a reservation from the Center that even those who bring a relative here should be registered in the Migration Board's register, so that you can find out if there are people who regularly bring new relatives here and abuse the system – perhaps to bring more people here and earn money from it or that they are, for example, a wife abuser and bring in a new wife as soon as the former is no longer in the country because of the two-year rule. There is development potential there too. These are proposals that we intend to incorporate into our policy. It is good to have controls, and it is good to ensure that people do not get hurt. That's what's supposed to be the starting point. As far as work is concerned, we have a number of specific opinions, including on the situation we have heard about time and again in relation to what is known as skills expulsions. Here we should have acted quite differently in the past. We were clear about this last autumn, when the committee chose to come forward with a proposal for a solution that anyone should have seen from the outset was not sustainable. This is rather than focusing on, for example, developing some form of moratorium or pause for expulsions until we have legislation in place. New legislation is now under way. We'll see exactly how well it's going to hold. Basic is that we absolutely want high-quality staff. Exchange with the outside world is rewarding – it is rewarding for us, and it is rewarding for them. Today, however, we still have problems with the use of the system. People get hurt. They do not know the rules of the Swedish labour market and can be exploited by our employers. We also have a combination of unemployment and difficulties for young people, for example, to get their first job, their first summer job, while bringing seasonal workers to a large extent to pick berries or plant spruce in the forest. It is a system that is not sustainable. The Swedish Democrats want to review and develop the needs testing of labour migration – of course combined with that it should be easy and go quickly to get here with the resources and skills that are needed. Finally, there is the report on citizenship. I recall – I have certainly done so earlier in this House – when I was lecturing in the United States almost exactly on the day two years ago. I got a question from a class dedicated to Scandinavian studies. They studied the situation in Europe and how the discussions developed at the time and were interested in us. They asked, among other things, what rules we have for citizenship in Sweden. I was there as a Swedish Democrat, and they had read literature that perhaps has a somewhat perverse view of what we think and expected something completely different. They asked: What else do you want? You must have demanded that you have lived in the country and complied with the laws, that you should know the language and have knowledge of the country. What else do you want? I looked at them and said: No, to become a citizen of Sweden you need to have been in the country for about four years, and it should have been long enough since you last committed a crime. They looked at me and were amazed. That is not how it looks in any civilized society. This should not be the case in Sweden either. Of course, you should have requirements for at least language skills and basic knowledge of society, laws and rights. Of course you should have followed the law during the time you have lived in our country. The Swedish Democrats also want to have lived in the country for a longer period. Of course, you should have had a residence permit all that time, which will include having been self-sufficient part of the time. There is much to do to restore the value of citizenship and the bond between being citizens of a state and having them as their home country and being part of society – being a citizen. That is the starting point of our policy: we are building a society. We look at human relationships. We look to a life – how to live, how to feel, having a home to stay in. That is what distinguishes us from the other parties in this House.
i-2sNeLPGqaosKYWMfB33PHF	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating a number of different reports on migration and asylum policy with many different motions from the general period of exercise. I would like to start by saying that I agree with much of what Carina Ohlsson said. She touched on many of these issues, and I thought it was particularly good that she emphasised that it is important for Sweden to safeguard the right to apply for asylum here and for us in the EU negotiations on the new common asylum system to safeguard fundamental human rights for asylum seekers. The last few years have been turbulent. Long processing times, large political fluctuations and a large number of asylum seekers have affected the work of the Migration Agency and migration policy. A temporary more restrictive law is in force and several parties seem to want to make the restrictive rules permanent or go further. When the temporary law expires in 2019, we in the Green Party want families to have a full right to family reunification and that sick and vulnerable people should be able to stay in Sweden. We see it as a matter of course. During the autumn and spring, more and more unaccompanied young people who have waited a long time for asylum clearance have been refused their asylum applications. A great many people are now in danger of being rejected into one of the world's most dangerous countries: Afghanistan. These young people have rooted in Sweden. They have become someone's bonus child, another's classmate and a third's football friend. They're starting to build their lives here. They are part of Sweden. The Green Party has long fought for those who came as unaccompanied minors in 2015 to stay in Sweden. Even when the temporary law was adopted, we made sure to negotiate an opt-out for those who came by 24 November of that year. If they were children or members of families with children, they would be tried against the ordinary Aliens Act and would continue to be granted permanent residence permits and full right to family reunification. If they were to be granted temporary residence permits instead of permanent residence permits, they would have the time to become of age when they were re-examined and would therefore be expelled. We thought that with that exception we had ensured that most of the children would be allowed to stay permanently in Sweden. Unfortunately, the Migration Agency's practice changes and the long processing times made many people over 18 years of age during the asylum period. Therefore, they are not covered by the exemption, nor are they covered by the Upper Secondary Code. Therefore, many are now in danger of being deported to one of the world's most dangerous countries. We decided at our congress last year to work to ensure that those who came as unaccompanied minors in 2015 would have a real opportunity to stay. Since then, we have worked focused and purposefully and put all our strength and energy into getting a real solution. It hasn't been easy. The political winds are not blowing in the right direction right now. There are calls for more repression and more expulsions, not responsibility and humanity. But in the end we managed to agree in the government on a real solution – an important step. In November, the government was finally able to present a proposal that gives most of the young people a new opportunity to stay. Those who arrived no later than 24 November 2015, who have waited 15 months or more for their first decision, which has been 18 years in the meantime, either by being registered at age or by turning 18, and who have been refused their asylum applications will have a new chance with the proposal. This is important for the thousands of young people affected by the proposal, and it is an important statement that the government takes responsibility for the young people affected by excessive processing times. It is therefore surprising that several of the bourgeois parties are now opposed to giving most unaccompanied young people who came in 2015 and who have suffered a new chance to stay in Sweden. The Moderates, Liberals and Christian Democrats have all stated that they will not support the government's proposals. The Liberal party leader, Jan Björklund, last summer called for a total ban on the expulsions to Afghanistan and was concerned that the security situation in the country was too dangerous for young people to return to, but now says no when there is a concrete proposal on the table that would prevent these young people from being expelled to Afghanistan. Liberals do not want to grant them a residence permit and wrongly feel that it would impose a burden on teachers, even though the proposal does not require teachers to give special grades, but only demands that the student participates in the studies on the same terms as all other students. In addition, the National Association of Teachers and the Teacher Association as well as many individual teachers have clearly taken a stand to give young people a new chance. The Christian Democrats claim to protect vulnerable people and have many members who are strongly committed to migration issues, but they still say no. Rather, they feel that distressing circumstances could be introduced, even though this would probably give only a very few people in the group concerned an opportunity to stay. Now that the government has come forward with a concrete proposal in which we take political responsibility for resolving the situation of young people who have been affected by the long processing times and who are in danger of being expelled, the Liberals and Christian Democrats show that their commitment to unaccompanied minors does not stand up. The consequence if the forthcoming law is not passed would be that young people continue to be deported to one of the world's most dangerous countries or remain in Sweden in a growing shadow society in great vulnerability. It is neither humane nor responsible, and it is a great betrayal of young people. The Center Party has long said that they want to give unaccompanied minors affected by excessive processing times a new chance to stay in Sweden. I have great respect for the fact that the Center Party wants to wait until the government presents the bill, but I hope that the Center Party will act so that the law goes through. Our focus is that the law is supported in the Riksdag and is in place as quickly as possible to facilitate the lives of the thousands of young people who are at risk of being expelled and who are now living in great vulnerability and often homelessness. Soon the bill will be presented as a bill to Parliament, and then we will vote. It will be one of the last things we do in Parliament during this parliamentary term and something that will determine what kind of society we want to be. Above all, it will be crucial for the future of up to 9 000 young people. Until the law comes into force, we in the Green Party have tried to do much to improve the situation of unaccompanied minors in the meantime. In the Government, we have made sure to give the municipalities money so that they can let the unaccompanied minors who are 18 years old during the asylum process stay instead of being sent to one of the Migration Agency's facilities in a completely different part of Sweden, where they often do not know anyone and may not be able to continue their schooling. It is an unnecessary break-up in the life of an already very insecure young person and something that we want to avoid. I hope that more municipalities will use the money for what the government has intended. We have also just directed SEK 120 million in the state budget to non-profit organisations that will work to prevent homelessness among young adults where mental illness can be a contributing cause of homelessness. This is important not least for young people who lose their housing after they have received a final decision on their asylum application and before the law is in force. In order to avoid asylum seekers over 18 years of age who have successfully qualified for national programmes in upper secondary school but are still in the asylum process not having to interrupt their schooling, we have also set aside resources in the state budget to enable them to start national programmes in upper secondary school already during the period as asylum seekers, even if they are 18 years old, just like all other young people in Sweden. But there is now a decisive and important step to be taken. In November we presented the agreement, and then we sent the proposal for a referral to authorities and organisations. We have made some adjustments and made it clear that those we said in November will also be covered, including all age-recorded. We have made the connection to the labour market clear by describing that you can work at the same time as studying, and we have sent the bill to the Law Council. Let's fight the clock. We must have time to deal with the bill before Parliament takes a summer break. The decision on this law and on the future of thousands of young people will be one of the last things we do, and we have to make it. In that vote, I hope that we will have the support of as many people as possible. The margins are very small for the proposal to go through. The vote of each Member of Parliament will be decisive. When I travel around Sweden and try to understand, learn, answer questions and discuss, I am struck by the fact that I get to see both the finest and the worst with Sweden at the same time. I see the anxiety and fear in the eyes of those who are at risk of expulsion and are reminded of how important it is that we fight for the new law to become a reality. I am alarmed by the polarised climate of debate and widespread xenophobia. But I also get to see the most beautiful thing in our society. I get to meet driven young people who have made Sweden their home. I meet volunteer family home parents, teachers and good men. It is people who struggle hard for their bonus son, people who see homelessness, vulnerability and anxiety in unaccompanied youths and put all their energy into giving them security and hope. This means that I will never stop fighting, because this is the Sweden that I want to fight for.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-119	Mr President, I would like to I'll start with a brief and simple question. Maria Ferm clearly said in her speech that those who came here as children have become adults either by turning 18 or by having their age written down and so on. My question is simply: Can you be 18 years old in any other way than turning 18? Those who have had their age recorded have received it for a reason. Usually, you may not just go by what the person says or what you first write down as hastily. Now we have put in place systems for proper trials, and we also know that, if anything, there is a much greater risk of continuing to classify adults as children than the reverse. In short, the question is: Is 18 because someone else says that you are, or do you become 18 simply because you turn 18?
i-2dyrhfmirK8a71NSGjDYQm	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Paula Bieler, for the philosophical question! Now we have a system of age assessments in Sweden that means that you have to undergo a medical age assessment just a few weeks after you have come here and applied for asylum. This system has been put in place in recent years, and it has put those who have already come to Sweden, a few years earlier, in a very problematic situation. For they did not make medical age assessments when they came here, but they do so years later in the process, which means that they are years older. Many who have made an age assessment are around 18 years old. Some may have done it and been told a week before they turn 18, or a few months before they turn 18. Of course, it is difficult to determine exactly whether the person is 18, especially if it is so close to the border. We know that there are major problems in determining age at all. People's age cannot be determined for sure, and there are great margins of uncertainty. We also have EU law to deal with, which says that one should relate to the principle of benefits of the double – the advantage of the case of doubt. This means that if there is a risk that the person is actually a child then you should also ensure that the person is treated as a child. What I think is the big problem with age assessments is that today we are not fully applying this principle in Sweden. That is something that we need to look at in order not to end up in a situation where people who are minors do not actually have their rights met.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-126	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for your answer, and I will begin where Maria Ferm left off. If we were to apply this principle fully, everyone would be judged to be under 18 years of age. There are diseases that cause you to age prematurely and so on, and you can never prove anything accurate. But you make a reasonable assessment. The reasonableness assessments that have been made with the methods that we have chosen have been criticised precisely because we have such a good margin that there are far more adults who are judged as children than the opposite. There have also been recent reports that there may be even more than has been mentioned in the past. I understand how one thinks in general when it comes to judging criminals, for example. There's a focus. But this is about what we're gonna give to people. It's about completely eliminating a system, when it's actually the one applying for things that should prove their identity including age. It is the person applying for things that, so to speak, should show that he or she has the right to apply for them. It is also about protecting children from having to live with adults. Thankfully, much has been highlighted in the debate from elsewhere than ours. I have a small supplementary question. As regards the structure of the legislative referral and the government's justifications, it is explicitly highlighted that the requirements of identity are lowered. This is done explicitly because the age assessments that have been made have meant that people's age has often been recorded. Then you want to avoid this because you would rather go for what the person says. I think this is a very strange order. What do you think about the signals you send? First, people are required to be able to demonstrate that they meet these requirements. If you start to check and find that many people gave false information and do not meet these requirements, then you change the rules afterwards for this specific group, for those who have chosen to break the rules, stayed in the country despite rejection and so on, as we have heard. How do you think about the signals that you send out regarding the rules that apply in our country?
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-131	Mr President, I would like to What we have been thinking about in this legislation is that we need to take political responsibility for the fact that these young people have been affected by incredibly long processing times. If they had received decisions in a reasonable time– after three – five months– they would still be minors when they had received the decision. Then it would have been a completely different situation. Then they would have had an opportunity to stay. Now we are in this situation because there is a great deal of pressure on the Migration Agency, a lot of new legislation and so on. As a result, it has taken a very long time to process these people's applications. Then they are in a much worse position, because they get the decision when they have become of age. This means that they will be rejected to a much greater extent, although it is not their fault that the length of proceedings has been delayed. The question then is: Should our bureaucracy, which has made this slow, affect young people who have lived here for several years, or should we take political responsibility and ensure what we said already in 2015 and which, in fact, all parties in this House except the Swedish Democrats said, namely that we would have an exception for those who came by this date, that they would be allowed to stay in Sweden and be granted permanent residence permits and that we would protect this group? Then, of course, we must ensure that it becomes a reality. That is the main point of making such a bill. On the question of identity, the discussion has focused on whether we need to make it clear in the preparatory work or in the legislative proposal that one does not need to have made one's identity likely. The reason we needed to clarify this in the bill was that the Migration Agency had a point of view in its referral that we need to include this in the law. That's why we've done it. So it is not a question of knowing less about this group than about other groups. However, if a medical age assessment has not been able to make one's age likely, it will have consequences for the rest of the identity, which is unreasonable.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-136	Mr President, I would like to There are really two reasons why I am standing here. I have some questions for Maria Ferm. However, I shall also clarify the reservations that I am calling for in the SfU17. I therefore support our alliance reservations 1 and 14. Then I hope it's done. With regard to the issue of the very unaccompanied people, whom Maria Ferm chose to focus a great deal on in her speech, it is an issue that I know the Green Party feels strongly about. I can also feel a lot for individual human fates. Migration policy is difficult because it literally affects people on life and death. Therefore, I think that it needs to be handled in a very careful and well-thought-out way – clearly yet well-thought-out. The government has presented a proposal, and we can soon expect a proposal. I can respect what the Green Party wants to achieve with this. In the end, however, we shall take a position on the legislation that is on the table. Here the criticism of referrals has been very extensive. The consultation response from the police, for example, points out that, with regard to the reduced identity requirements, control over who is in the country will be reduced. The Migration Agency says that legislation that is already difficult to apply today will be further complicated, which may also have a negative impact on legal certainty. The Administrative Court in Gothenburg says that the costs are underestimated. Their colleagues in Stockholm are asking whether a rejection of an asylum application is still expected to mean that they are actually leaving the country. It is this type of question that arises from this bill. I wonder whether the Green Party and Maria Ferm see this criticism and – more importantly – how to deal with it.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-140	Mr President, I would like to Of course we have read all the referral points. One of the reasons we sent out the proposal for a referral was to receive comments from authorities and organisations. There have been quite a few comments. They are taken care of in the proposal that we have sent to the Law Council. There we describe how we have dealt with the referral points. We have also made some adjustments, for example concerning what the Migration Agency has pointed out on the question of identity, that is to say, those that we indicated in November 2015 would be included in the proposal will also be included in the proposal. I would like to point out, then, that there will, of course, be a vandels and security clearance of all these people. It's not about people we don't know who they are. They have already lived in Sweden for three years. They go to Swedish schools. It is young people with classmates and with families who have rooted themselves here. But, of course, there will be a vandels and security clearance in any case.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-142	Mr President, I would like to It is possible that Maria Ferm thinks the criticism is taken care of. However, I wonder whether the consultation bodies share this view. The Finnish Immigration Service says that legislation today is very difficult to apply. I cannot see that this is in any way being dealt with by the requirements of proof that are being lowered in the new proposal. Rather, it leads to what the police point out in their referral, namely that control will be further reduced. The costs are another aspect of this. This is about SEK 1 billion per year over three years. I wonder how solid that calculation is. For example, school costs are not included here. I assume that the government has thought about this and that it will present a clearer summary of precisely the costs of this. It is important that this is done properly. Politics is both about feeling for things but also about being able to be thorough with the details. I would like to remind the Green Party of how things went last time, with the former High School Act, which was also stressed out in a short time. This bill would have come before the bill stop, but it is late. The former High School Act was so imprecise that it resulted, through a loophole in § 16(e), that the expulsions of persons who did not have protection reasons were completely down, because people repeatedly put in systems to use this loophole. I think that is very serious. If you have a right of asylum, it aims to protect those who are in need of protection, and what the government did with its ill-thought-out bill was, in principle, to eliminate this. It does not matter whether you have protection reasons or not; the decision to return home was entirely voluntary. Whether you are in favour of a generous or a tight migration policy – that is one thing – I think there are very good reasons, on a factual basis, to say that this legislation is not well thought out.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-147	Mr President, I would like to I think it is positive that Johan Forssell moons so much about that there will be good legislation and proper handling. It will, of course, be important for the law to have the intended effect. It will be absolutely crucial for the future of these young people, so it is very important. With regard to the Upper Secondary Education Act and the 16th loophole referred to by Johan Forssell, it is something I note that Johan Forssell, or for that matter the Law Council, did not discover either. The crawlhole was very problematic, but it is something we will correct with this legislation. Since Johan Forssell thinks that this is just that important, the Moderates may even be able to support the entire legislation, to ensure that that detail can actually change. When it comes to the referral points, and so on, they are taken care of in the legislative referral. It is also not exactly the type of negative image that Johan Forssell points to. There are a number of referral points that are critical, and there will be comments; that is the point of sending out a proposal for a referral. There are also a great many consultation bodies that support the proposal and think that it is incredibly important and necessary for us to take political responsibility – and that we do so through this legislation. The Bar community, various human rights organisations and so on think it is an important piece of legislation. The Finnish Immigration Service does not support the proposal either. I believe that this will be an important issue in the spring. It is important that it comes in place, and I look forward to having continued discussions with Johan Forssell about it – not least considering that even the Moderates actually took part in deciding that we would protect those who came before 24 November. It would be very good if that responsibility could now also be taken from your side, Johan Forssell.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-151	Mr President, I would like to We live in a globalised world. More and more people migrate, not only to seek refuge from war, terror and oppression, but also for work, study and love. Sweden's ability to design its own asylum policy will depend on developments in the world and common European solutions. The Center Party wants to see an EU-wide system of reception for refugees, with a more balanced distribution between EU countries. For those countries that do not live up to the EU's distribution, there needs to be severe sanctions, for example in the form of reduced structural contributions. The Center Party wants an asylum policy at EU level that is so robust that agreements with third countries to prevent migration should not be needed. They create large, harmful effects on many levels. However, when such agreements are concluded, as we see being done, we need to protect human rights, the principle of non-refoulement and international law in these agreements. A responsible migration policy takes its starting point in humanity and transparency, but also takes into account the new reality we have experienced in recent years. We defend the right to seek protection, the right to reunite with their family, the security of asylum seekers and an effective path to integration. At the same time, we see the challenges that exist and the major reforms that are actually needed. Most of those fleeing to the EU are still forced to take the deadly route across the Mediterranean. The lack of legal roads leads to thousands of dead people every year. We need to find safer systems and steer from dangerous journeys to other safer ways of getting here. Our starting point is therefore that Sweden and the EU should receive a larger number of quota refugees through the UNHCR than we do today. Both the resources of Sweden and the EU need to be specifically targeted at that group. Asylum seekers who come to Sweden on their own have the right to seek protection, but they should not have the same access to all jointly funded welfare benefits that quota refugees receive. Instead, they qualify for welfare. The costs of receiving refugees must be reduced, and we have proposed, among other things, start-up loans instead of grants. The Center Party stands up for regulated immigration where you can stay if you have protection reasons but should leave the country if you are refused. Regulated immigration means that we can maintain credibility in asylum policy. At a time when more and more people are questioning that we should help people escape, this is particularly important in order to create tolerance and acceptance for a fellow humane refugee immigration. There are still many who are in what is called shadow society. For example, it may be children who have grown up and lived their whole lives in Sweden, labour immigrants who have stayed after their residence permit has expired, or people who have been rejected or never made themselves known. Shadow society is harmful, both to those living in it and to society as a whole. If you do not have a residence permit, you must leave the country. For this to happen, more measures will be needed than today. At the same time, we see that specific solutions are needed for some of the problems that have arisen since autumn 2015, when 163 000 people applied for asylum in Sweden and put great pressure on our systems. If you seek protection, you should be able to rely on a legally sound assessment for your asylum reasons. Unfortunately, we see today that there are certain shortcomings in this respect. Among other things, knowledge of the situation of LGBT refugees and converters must be increased, and an investigation should be made of the Migration Agency's assessments of the security situation in different countries. We also want a review of medical age assessments, so that any shortcomings can be remedied. In addition, we believe that other protection-needed and distressing circumstances should be reintroduced and that alternative protection-needed persons should have the right to family reunification. We also want to resolve the situation of those who were minors when they arrived and who have been affected by lengthy processing times. At the same time, we want to reform the reception. It is in Sweden's municipalities that the most knowledge about establishment and integration is available. In order to better plan and exploit available housing and to start early efforts linked to the local labour market or education system, municipalities should be given greater responsibility and financial resources for both housing and establishment. At the same time, we want to limit the possibility of choosing your own home by introducing a social test. In order to further streamline reception and make it clear and simple, regional reception places should be located where all asylum seekers live in the first few weeks. Here asylum can be sought and relevant actors co-located. An asylum seeker who is enrolled at the reception point should have compulsory community education, which we have been pushing for for years now, and health examination pending decisions. However, migration policy concerns more than refugees and asylum seekers. Sweden's growth depends on foreign skills. We therefore want to protect and develop today's rules for labour migration and make it easier for students and other groups. It is in companies that jobs are emerging, and it is companies that can best decide what skills they need to recruit. The centre party's starting point is that those who support themselves should be allowed to stay in Sweden. Labour immigrants should be easy to come to Sweden and easy to stay as long as they have jobs. It should be possible to change jobs. The application process needs to be simplified and minor errors can be corrected. Today it does not work that way – many are still expelled for reasons that are totally unreasonable, for example because of mistakes made by a former employer many years ago. A strategy needs to be developed for how Sweden can attract the right skills in a growing global competition. It is important for Sweden's small and medium-sized enterprises and for our economy as a whole. The Center Party wants to facilitate the application process for non-European students who want to study in Sweden. It is important to attract foreign students. Higher education is a fast-growing global market that creates new contacts and networks and brings valuable human capital to host countries. In several cases, the Migration Agency has received criticism for inadequate handling of students' residence permits, uncertainty in processes and a non-transparent interpretation of regulations. The rules that exist for students' residence permits and that include, among other things, secure living and study results must be clarified based on students' ability to study and stay in Sweden. We also need to make it easier for entrepreneurs to come to Sweden to run their own company. Today, the rules are strict, and few can come to contribute their entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship. We need to become more transparent, so that we can better take advantage of the creative power that people want to contribute to build Sweden strong. I would like to support SfU15, SfU16 and SfU17.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-169	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating a number of reports, and I would therefore like to begin by calling for a number of reservations to be accepted. I would like to ask for the approval of Amendment No 16 in the SfU15. The reservation is about amnesty for unaccompanied minors. I would also like to express my support for paragraph 4 of the SfU16 on the immigration of family members. This reservation concerns the right to family reunification. In SfU17, on labour immigration, the Left Party has a special opinion that highlights our position on labour immigration, because we have not exercised it. You can read it if you're interested. As far as SfU18 is concerned, on citizenship, I support the Left Party's reservation 3. Today, there is an urgent issue that overshadows everything else in migration policy, namely the issue of the unaccompanied. This issue is great because, in addition to the unaccompanied ones themselves, it affects so many of us in society: friends, neighbors, teachers, family homes, good men, football teams and many others. The unaccompanied minors we are talking about are people – young and children – who have lived among us for years. They're part of us now. In the current debate on unaccompanied minors requested by the Left Party on 13 September, I was very clear that we in the Left Party are open and flexible in order to find solutions that will allow the unaccompanied to stay. Our door is always open. We are willing to discuss any proposals that may allow them to stay. Unfortunately, the government has not chosen to take this chance with regard to the new law. I will come back to that. Amnesty is usually nothing that should be needed. But sometimes – in exceptional cases, when you see people getting very bad or falling between chairs – it may be necessary. Then amnesty may be the only reasonable thing. This can be the case, for example, when a change of system or when legal certainty has clearly failed. We have been in such a situation in the past, with the amnesty given to some 17 000 people in 2004– 2005, and I think we are in such a situation now. I will now go through six good and important reasons for giving amnesty to unaccompanied children and young people. I will tell you why it is rational and constructive to deal with a difficult and urgent situation in this particular way. Firstly, the main argument against an amnesty is often that it would go against the basic principle of individual protection assessments and that it would undermine our principles of law. This presupposes, however, that these safety assessments have been carried out in a legally secure manner, which, unfortunately, there are strong reasons to question. In a country like Afghanistan, with a very weak state power, civil war, chaos and corruption, the existence of a social safety net – including family, neighbours and relatives, and knowing the place where you live – is crucial for survival. The more uncertain a country is, the stronger the need for access to social networks for protection and survival. Field researchers in Afghanistan have been able to show that the only people who are able to return to the country and integrate and who are not forced to flee again are those who have a strong network, family and financial resources in the country. A large proportion – almost 10 000 people – of the Afghan-origin unaccompanied minors who have come to Sweden have stayed in a country other than Afghanistan before their flight to Sweden; not infrequently has this country been Iran. This means that they have no real connection with Afghanistan and therefore do not have the social safety net needed to survive there. But formally and in international law they are Afghan citizens – despite their lack of network, they have been seen by the Migration Board as average Afghans. It's not right. This is a serious error in the safety assessment. It has been highlighted by the Migration Court of Appeal, which in March 2017 issued a judgment that allowed most young people under the age of 18 without a safety net in Afghanistan to be granted a residence permit. Other migration courts have come up with similar assessments for young adults as well. But the damage is already done, not least for a large part of these young adults. After all, the long waiting periods that Maria Ferm spoke about have further diluted these problems and made the situation more difficult. I will now quote an article in the GP by psychologist Shervin Shahnavaz, former Court of Appeal Council Nanna Töcksberg Zelano and migration lawyer Fabian Hägglund Wennergren who draws attention to this particular legal uncertainty. They write: We believe that the Migration Board's starting point, that these 9 497 people have the same opportunity to get by in Afghanistan as the zealous Afghan, is wrong. These individuals do not have a family, other family or network there, but have no actual foundation. In other words, the Migration Board's individual protection assessments for the group that grew up in Iran or other countries outside Afghanistan have been based on a false assumption of existing safety nets and local anchoring that do not exist in reality. This has led to incorrect assessments to a large extent regarding the protection needs of individuals. ..................................................... This is the first reason for an amnesty. The second reason concerns age assessments. This is a chapter on legal uncertainty that I could talk about for a very long time. However, I am pleased to note that the medical age assessments have led to age revalidation of young people and thus to a reduction in residence permits and that these methods are highly questionable, both by medical competence and – more recently – by statistical expertise. This is another factor that makes it possible to question the safety assessments, as the 18-year limit has such a decisive impact on how one views the person's need for protection. The third recital concerns the temporary law. When the government turned around and presented the temporary law, as we have heard from Maria Ferm, it said that children should be exempted and continue to be granted permanent residence permits. That was not the case, however. Instead, the Finnish Immigration Service changed the practice and granted temporary residence permits, which meant that the unaccompanied persons can get expulsion decisions as soon as they become adults. In addition, it is clear that the use of the date of the government press conference in further legislation has created great legal uncertainty. People could not know that the government would have a feeling on 24 November and that this would then be dealt with in retroactive legislation. This is the third reason for an amnesty. The fourth reason is that the young people are among us and have lived here for years. Up here in the gallery are some of them. Along with them are friends, teachers, good men, family homes, yes, all those who have now come to be family. We all know that adolescence is important years that shape us. The large number of suicides and self-harms in the last year speaks clearly. Reports from Karolinska Institutet and the professional network We cannot bear to show that at least twelve young unaccompanied minors killed themselves in 2017. This means that suicide is nine times as common in the group as in the corresponding age group that has grown up in Sweden. It is a terrible and very dangerous epidemic. Sweden has long had a zero vision for suicide. We also know a great deal about what is crucial for preventing suicide, namely security and predictability. It is about safe and stable housing, schooling and a strong social network, which is directly preventive of depression. But the gap between these crucial preventive conditions and the reality of young people is enormous. The reality of young people is anything but secure and predictable. The legislation that has been amended, the asylum process, sudden relocations and the loss of much of your social safety net overnight when you turn 18 is quite the opposite. We also see that asylum seekers children in community care are treated differently on many points than children who have grown up in Sweden, and that is unreasonable. With the gap between the reality of young people, homelessness, drugs, vulnerability and anxiety, and what is needed to prevent suicide, we are in a very dangerous situation. That's another reason for amnesty. Fifthly, the extensive expulsions to Afghanistan planned are unrealistic. For those who are here among us, they will continue to be. They are difficult to implement, not least because of the security situation in Afghanistan, which is constantly changing and deteriorating. Putting so many young people and people around them in limbo waiting for expulsion is unethical, and it is also bad for society. Young people are at risk of being put in custody or on the street with a risk of crime, prostitution, drug abuse-- yes, you know. At the same time, homeless young people on the street in Europe are associated with high costs and harmful effects for society and for young people, who in turn become the breeding ground for further growth of right-wing and discontent parties. An amnesty, on the other hand, can allow these young people to participate in the construction of Sweden. There is also a consensus among the organisations dealing with human rights issues, which are very knowledgeable about Afghanistan, that expulsions to the country should be stopped. It is organisations such as the Swedish Afghanistan Committee, Amnesty International, Save the Children, the Red Cross, i.e. people who know the situation in the country well. It is high time to listen to them. Sixthly, the new proposal on residence permits for certain unaccompanied minors, which we are now waiting for, is a good step. Why don't you just settle down like that? Yeah, that's a good step. However, the proposal continues to build on some of the problems that we already see, such as the deadline of 24 November, that one should have waited 15 months. I have a couple of friends. We can call them Ali and Reza for simplicity. Ali has waited just over 15 months, while Reza has only waited 13 months. They will be treated quite differently. They are friends and live together but will not have the same opportunities. The same applies to those registered only days after the government press conference, even if they have actually come before. It doesn't make sense. It's not legal. In addition, I want to make it clear that amnesty does not exclude the new law, which should be in place before the summer. The Left Party will table constructive amendments to try to improve the government's proposal. As I said, we have always been very open and flexible to ensure that young people who have come here can stay. But even with the new law, we'll need an amnesty. Finally, the question of amnesty for unaccompanied minors is ultimately about who we want to be and who we become if we let this continue. The welfare state is based on the fact that we see ourselves in each other, that we stand up for each other and that anyone who does not have children is still involved in funding the schooling of the neighbour's children. There is solidarity between the healthy and the sick, between the one who has work and the one who does not have and between generations. It is a pact for security based on the crucial fact that we can see ourselves in each other and understand that the support that you need today, I or my people, may need tomorrow. Up here in the gallery are many who understand what it means in practice, doing the job that the state and we should do. They're doing it for us. What the unaccompanied children and young people are now exposed to can only be justified if we choose not to see ourselves in them. It is clear in the rhetoric, which is all too often heard, about the very unaccompanied. It is a question of suspicion, of not seeing them as children, of seeing them as threatening, different and dangerous. Only if you deny that they are human beings, just like you and I, can you justify that they should be treated differently from other children and young people. Only if you deny that they have exactly the same value as our children and young people can you reason in terms of who has sufficient human capital. Only then can you explain why they should not have the same rights, that they have been subjected to extensive legal uncertainty, that they should be sent to a country in war without networks. There is a lot of talk about Swedish values nowadays in this House. Often the view of children's and women's rights is highlighted as something especially Swedish. The Left Party, as part of the labour movement, has often been among the first to make demands that children, women, Roma, LGBT people and functionaries are human beings and should have rights and opportunities to live their lives on equal terms without violence and oppression. Not infrequently has this reasonable demand met resistance, not least from the bourgeois side, for example when it comes to our demand to ban child abuse at school, women's rights or homosexuals' right to enter into partnerships. Much of what is highlighted as Swedish values today are the values of the labour movement, which has slowly gained ground but always in resistance. It shows that values can be changed and that it is we who form them together. The Left Party will continue to assert human dignity and insist that we must continue to see ourselves in one another. This time it is the fight for the right of unaccompanied minors to stay, breathe out and be involved in building Sweden. Next time, it may be another of us who will no longer be counted as as valuable as others. I hope it is with this in mind – who we want to be and how we want to look at each other in our society – that the other Members are voting this afternoon.
i-CmEt8PWGuHFaJxfzR13ZSn	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of paragraph 15 of the SfU15 report, reservation 5 of the SfU16 report, reservations 1 and 14 of the SfU17 report and reservation 5 of the SfU18 report. If any of this is wrong, I'll be reprimanded. I think that when we all see what is happening in Syria, for example, we all understand how important it is not only for Sweden but for all countries where there is security and freedom to stand up to help the people who are in very great need, for those people who really need protection. Mr President, I would like to For the Liberals, it is important that Sweden stands up for a humane refugee policy. We believe that Sweden should be ambitious when it comes to resettlement and quota refugees, which means that people can come to Sweden legally. People who are in refugee camps inside or outside war zones should be given an opportunity to get out of there and get protection. We also believe that it is important for children to be reunited with their parents. In a time of increased polarisation, refugee hatred, attacks on accommodation and other things, it is important that we stand up for humanism. In parallel, it is important that we have a migration policy based on order and order that is sustainable in the long term. If we do not have it, the legitimacy and confidence that Sweden will be a country open to immigration in the long term will be undermined. The problem in recent years is that, in the wake of the major refugee crisis in 2015, we have got an increasingly messier regulatory framework that is more difficult to understand and where the conditions are not really known. We have also had a situation where more and more people who are rejected do not leave the country but go underground to a growing shadow society. If we want to ensure that Sweden is an open country for immigration in the long term, we must, as I said, have a migration policy that is sustainable in the long term and that is based on order and order. This means, in the end, that the crucial thing must be whether a person has protection reasons or not. I have followed the debate on the government's new high school law and the demands for amnesty and other things. I think it is important to see that the essence of this is that it is a group of 9 000 people, all of whom are of age and who have been rejected, many also in administrative and administrative law. If Sweden is to have a migration policy based on the fact that it is reasons for protection that are crucial, can we introduce a system where in this case it does not matter so much? It is about a large group of people who have been rejected but who will be allowed to stay in Sweden as long as they register in upper secondary school. Liberals feel that it is not reasonable to do this. In addition, all demands are removed that one must be able to make one's identity probable. In Sweden, if you apply for a residence permit on a basis other than protection, you must be able to prove your identity, which is usually done with a passport. If you are seeking asylum, you need to be able to make your identity likely.In the group the government is now addressing for some kind of de facto amnesty, many have not even been able to make their identity likely because they cannot make their age likely. To then completely remove the requirements for one to be able to make one's identity likely means that Sweden departs from the rule that the Swedish state has an interest in knowing which people are given the right to reside in Sweden. Liberals see significant risks to legal certainty with this proposal, and we will therefore not support it. Mr President, I would like to We cannot have a migration policy that only focuses on people being able to enter Sweden, stay in Sweden and get protection in Sweden. If people later receive permanent residence permits, it will mean a responsibility for our country for several decades to come. If we cannot guarantee housing supply and do not have a functioning housing market, social services or the judiciary, confidence in this whole system will be worn down. It is therefore important that we combine heart and brain, humanism and order in order to make migration policy stick together. I am concerned about world development in the broad sense of Trump, Putin and all sorts of authoritarian and populist leaders. As a liberal, I am also very concerned about the situation in Sweden with an increasingly polarised climate of debate, an increasingly gaping tone and ever more irreconcilable rhetoric from many quarters, which means that we will have a two-way division of our country. It will be difficult for moderate, pragmatic and reasoning voices to emerge in this climate of debate. If we do not manage migration policy and integration policy, it will be difficult in the long term to secure Sweden as an open country for immigration and as a country based on liberal fundamental values.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-213	Mr President, I would like to As several speakers have pointed out, today we have a major debate which concerns all areas of migration policy. In my speech, I will not go through the whole of the Christian Democrats' migration policy, but I will do something about it. Anyone who wants to get an overall picture of our migration policy is recommended to review today's reports or the budget movement for the migration area that we submitted to Parliament last autumn. In these reports, the Christian Democrats have 19 reservations and two specific opinions. I am, of course, in favour of all these, but in order to save time in voting, I only ask for reservation 5 in SfU15 and reservation 14 in SfU17. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats propose that so-called asylum application areas should be established near our major border crossings and that anyone intending to seek asylum in Sweden should be referred to these areas. In this way, we want to improve the reception of asylum seekers and make the asylum process more efficient. In these areas, the registration of asylum applications should take place and accommodation should be arranged for asylum seekers during the first phase of the asylum investigation. Persons who are clearly not involved in proving their identity and who come from so-called safe countries or who, in accordance with the rules of the Dublin Regulation, should have their asylum application examined in another country should be given a rapid expulsion decision. The same applies to persons who are deemed to be a safety risk. A concerted reception and decision-making process enhances the possibility of preventing people from deviating and ending up in a vulnerable situation. About this is reservation 26 in SfU15. I have noted that the receiving inquiry, which is to be presented today, seems to be proposing a similar proposal, which the Christian Democrats welcome. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats also propose the introduction of an asylum programme of six months. The idea behind this is to reduce passivity during the period of asylum and speed up both the establishment of the labour market and integration in Sweden by early communicating the norms and values that characterise our society. It is important to make it clear that people who come to Sweden with the intention of staying need to learn the Swedish language and understand the values that underpin Swedish society. We therefore believe that participation in formal education and social orientation should be offered and required right from the beginning of the asylum period. In order for more asylum seekers to work during the period of asylum, we also want a working requirement for asylum seekers to be available in the labour market. At the same time, we have proposals both to make it easier for asylum seekers to work and to strengthen asylum seekers' incentives to work. During the asylum programme, the experience, skills and training of asylum seekers must be clarified and a health survey offered. Babysitting should also be offered for the functioning of the asylum programme also for those who are parents of young children. Those who do not participate in the asylum programme shall be able to have their daily allowance reduced. This concerns both reservation 52 and our special opinion in SfU15. In this area too, it seems that the receiving inquiry has some similar proposals, which we welcome. Mr President, I would like to Furthermore, we in the Christian Democrats want to see a permanent law whereby all groups of persons in need of protection are initially granted a temporary, three-year residence permit. If the reasons for protection persist after these three years or if you have acquired a job or started an activity that you can support yourself through, you should be granted a permanent residence permit. The Christian Democrats have also said that the limitation of the right to family reunification contained in the temporary migration legislation should be removed. According to our view of society and human beings, the family has a crucial role to play in people's lives. We believe that it is better that the people who come to Sweden focus on establishing themselves in the labour market and in society as soon as possible than having to worry about their relatives who are in some other part of the world. On this point, paragraph 5 of the SfU report15, as well as the specific opinion of the SfU report16, are addressed. Mr President, I would like to The fact that the so-called temporary law lacks the provisions on extremely and particularly distressing circumstances as a basis for residence permits is also something that the Christian Democrats have opposed. We see, on the one hand, that the government's alternative definition has created a great deal of uncertainty, and, on the other hand, that the fact that the government has removed these provisions from the so-called temporary law has contributed to the fact that it has felt the need to develop new special solutions, such as the new secondary law currently in force. The reintroduction of the provisions on exceptional and particularly distressing circumstances as a basis for residence permits would not undermine the principles of safeguarding the right to asylum and individual assessment. Anyone who has sufficient reason should be protected in our country, while those who are not deemed to have such reasons must return. In other words, the reintroduction of these provisions would be a way of allowing more unaccompanied minors and others in need to stay in Sweden while maintaining regulated immigration. Mr President, I would like to It is also important to stress that those who come to Sweden to seek asylum but who, after an individual assessment and legal review, are not deemed to have sufficient grounds for protection to obtain a residence permit must return to their home country as quickly as possible. Unfortunately, we know that both the return that takes place on its own and the forced expulsions and expulsions that take place are working too badly today. In order to overcome this, it is important that Sweden enters into more readmission agreements with the main countries of origin in order for them to receive their citizens. More resources are needed for the police to be able to execute expulsions and expulsions, and also to a greater extent to carry out internal checks on foreigners. There is also a need for more detention places, both more than those we have today and more than those that the government has planned to open. This is subject to reservation 63 in the SfU15 report. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to touch on two more areas. One is about legal certainty in the asylum process, which has been raised earlier in the debate. I basically have good faith that there is a well-functioning rule of law in our asylum process. The Finnish Immigration Service makes decisions based on the laws we pass here in the Swedish Parliament. There is a possibility for those who are dissatisfied with their decision to appeal to both the Migration Court and the Migration Court of Appeal. However, the Christian Democrats have a proposal that could further guarantee the rule of law. We want to introduce an inspection on migration issues. It would simply be an inspection tasked with continuously monitoring the Migration Agency's processes and assessments. The second area I would like to mention is that one of the reports we are discussing today concerns labour immigration. In this report, we have two reservations, among other things, with the other alliance parties. I did not intend to go deeper into this area today, but rather to say that we in the Christian Democrats agree with most of what has been said earlier here in the pulpit by the representatives of the Moderate and Center Party in particular.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-233	Mr President, I would like to Today, as many others have said, we are dealing with a number of reports presented by the Social Security Committee, namely reports 15, 16, 17 and 18. Everyone spans a variety of things in the area of migration. I intend to focus on labour immigration, that is, the report of the Social Security Committee 17. Before going into the substance of the report, I would like to start by saying a few words about labour immigration in general. As a starting point, we must remember that labour migration is good and positive for Sweden. Our country needs a labour immigration system that meets the needs of recruiting skills abroad. It is good that companies that find it difficult to find skills in Sweden can recruit staff from other countries. It is good for our age structure that people of working age come here. It is good for Sweden and the country's economy. In short, well-functioning labour migration contributes to growth and prosperity. This is the starting point of the Social Democrats. Mr President, I would like to At the same time, in order for labour migration to be effective, it is important that we have a system that holds together and works. The rules must be balanced and third-country workers must have good conditions of employment. Labour immigration rules must not lead to wage dumping or make it easier for rogue employers to cheat on conditions and exploit foreign labour. In short, we must not be naive. We know that there are problems in the area of labour immigration. For us Social Democrats, it is important that people are not exploited and that labour immigration does not undermine the Swedish model. There must be order and order in the Swedish labour market. All of us in this House have read the reports that have come from, among other things, the National Audit Office. The Swedish National Audit Office noted that around 20 per cent of the surveyed employers paid labour immigrants a salary that was below the income requirement. That, of course, is totally unacceptable. Labour migration of highly skilled workers or labour in shortage jobs is a positive thing, but at the same time must not lead to wage dumping. In order to maintain this duality, the Finnish Immigration Service has been commissioned by the Government to promote a needs-driven labour migration. In addition, the Finnish Immigration Service has been given increased resources to carry out reasonable controls. Mr President, I would like to It should be easy for serious companies to make use of labour migration when needed. It is therefore positive that the Migration Agency is continuing to work on its certification model, which means that a complete application of a certified company is processed within ten days. It's reasonable and good. It is also good that the Migration Court of Appeal has issued a new ruling that is clearer when a work permit is to be withdrawn, so that more work permits are not withdrawn for key labour due to minor and administrative errors. This is good for Sweden, and it means that we get a good and safe practice. What is the conclusion of all of this? For the Social Democrats, two things are important. On the one hand, there is a need for a simple and well-functioning system that provides opportunities for labour migration of highly skilled workers or workers in shortage jobs. Of course, licences must not be withdrawn because of administrative errors. On the other hand, it is at least as important to stop the cheating that exists and to ensure that there is order and order in our labour market. It must be a stop so that people are not exploited by organised crime and rogue employers. The government is working on this as well. This is done through investments in the police, the Work Environment Agency, which makes workplace inspections, and the Migration Agency. The government does so also by tearing up lex Laval and tried to do so through a better regulatory framework for public procurement. In short, it needs to be order and order on the Swedish labour market. Mr President, I would like to That is why we want to reject the motions in the Social Security Committee's report No 17. That is also why we reserved ourselves in committee against two announcements on the work of the Migration Agency, on the one hand against abuse of rules and, on the other hand, on the reduction of processing times. This work is already under way, and the Migration Agency has assignments in the direction that the movements indicate. Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats think that labour migration is important and good for Sweden. But it must never lead to wage dumping or undermining of the Swedish model. Both are important in this section. We therefore call for the motion to be rejected and for our reservations to be accepted, Nos 13 and 16.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-247	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mathias Tegnér for his speech. That's interesting. I note that Mathias has repeatedly returned to the importance of labour migration. I think it is very positive to get it clarified. In what the government has done during this parliamentary term, this clear position has often been lacking, not least in the products that have come. As I said earlier, I think that during the first two years in particular, the government had a view on labour immigration legislation, where the only problem was that people are being exploited and suffering ill. That is a very distorted view of labour immigration, I would say. Of course there are some problems, and of course we should deal with them. But we must also be able to see the broader picture and note that labour migration plays a very important role in Sweden today, not least in many shortages. I therefore think it was very positive to hear this, although I may say that Mathias Tegnér then lands a little strangely, namely in voting against many of the things that we in the Alliance have proposed and which can improve the situation. It is a bit divided, so to speak, as to what opinion the Social Democrats really have. We can look at the issue of skills, which is still not fully resolved, despite the fact that we have been pointing it out for years. The government parties also voted against the Alliance's proposal for a 30-day guarantee, something that would have been needed years ago. Today we have waiting times which sometimes amount to over six months. That's completely unreasonable. From what I understand, the Social Democrats also say no to the proposals of the Moderates supported by my alliance friends regarding, for example, talent visas, which will improve the opportunities for labour immigration. How does it really rhyme with what Mathias Tegnér says about labour migration being so very important?
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-251	Mr President, I would like to I thank Johan Forssell for the questions. It is reasonable that we start with the background. We in Sweden have very liberal legislation in this area, on which the old government decided. My picture is that the government has been very clear that labour migration is something that is positive. On the other hand, as I have said and as my party has said several times, the government believes that there is a duality. Labour immigration is positive, but there must be order and order in the Swedish labour market. It is clear that the legislation we are discussing now also needs to ensure that the cheating that is taking place is curbed. It is possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. Labour immigration is a good thing, but we will never accept the existence of organised crime in our labour market, as, for example, the Economic Crime Authority has pointed out, however, that is the case. Labour immigration is good, but it should be people who are actually needed on the Swedish labour market, and we will never lie down for organised crime or rogue entrepreneurs. The guarantee proposed by the Moderates and other alliance parties is described in your motion so that you will be guaranteed the consent of the Migration Board within 30 days. We think it is important to examine whether there are serious conditions in the application that exist. Then it is clear that the Migration Agency must work and make an assessment, so that we do not get organised crime and rogue companies that do not pay Swedish wages to the people who come here.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-255	Mr President, I would like to I think I can speak on behalf of the whole House when I say that there is no one who accepts serious organised crime either in the area of labour immigration or in any other area. That's where we agree. I do not quite understand that that is what the debate here is about at all. The debate is about how we will improve the conditions for people to come to Sweden and work. We have had a long debate here today on migration policy. There are dozens of problems in Swedish migration policy, things that should look different. But that people come to Sweden, work, pay taxes, support themselves and want to be part of our country is not a problem. On the contrary, we should encourage more. It is good that Mathias Tegnér states that labour migration is positive, but then this becomes a bridge to start talking about vulnerability, cheating and curbing. We have made an announcement from the Alliance on that very subject. We want to strengthen direct access between the authorities. It's about the Migration Agency and the IRS. However, the Social Democrats have also voted against this. I think the difference is that we from the Alliance not only see these two sides of the coin but also propose both. The Moderates have presented proposals on, for example, the introduction of talent visas to enable highly educated experts to come to Sweden and work. That is something that we know is being demanded by several companies. We want to give the Swedish Institute a mission to promote Sweden abroad. We're not going to market this country with high child benefits. We will promote Sweden abroad as the best country in Europe for workers to come to work and do the right thing. Of course, there should be order, and we will get there. I think this is about ambition. Either you settle for just a few problems, which is important in itself, but not enough, or we have the ambition that Sweden should be number one. The latter is what we Moderates want.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-260	Mr President, I would like to We agree that Sweden should be at the forefront, Johan Forssell, and we can see in the area by area that Sweden gets high in rankings. Nor is there any political difference in the question of direct access to data by the Swedish Tax Agency. Rather, the question is what the legislative process should be like and how to get legislation that works in practice. One of the basic problems is that the legislation on the table has a number of problems. We know that cheating occurs. Then it is important to ensure that Sweden is good at working with labour migration. We can do this through, among other things, the coordination of authorities that exists today and through the certification that the Migration Agency is working with. Of course we should make sure that we get better at receiving people who come here and want to work. At the same time, however, we must curb cheating, and that is the problem. There are a number of proposals. We've torn up lex Laval, as I mentioned. We're talking about labour inspectorates. We're talking about the Swedish Work Environment Authority. In this area, too, we must ensure that the Migration Agency has the muscles to stop the organised crime that exists. Then you have to have the duality that I'm talking about. I think that labour migration is good, but we must also have robust rules that mean that the Swedish model is not threatened and that the wages paid in Sweden are Swedish wages.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-263	Mr President, I would like to The temporary law was introduced retroactively and is now hitting both children and young people hard. In the Committee on Social Affairs, we have been informed several times about the spread of mental illness among refugees in general and children in particular, most of all among the unaccompanied. It is about self-harm, anxiety, anxiety, suicide attempts and even suicide. I chose to engage politically in 2005, the same year as the waves in the discussion on refugee policy and amnesty went high last. The Foreigners' Board was to be closed, for example because a united parliament had seen that there were major shortcomings in the examination of asylum matters. Now we write 2018, and the waves have been high for several years in the social debate, in the Riksdag and not least in the Mediterranean. I am liberal because I believe in freedom of choice and freedom and in the individual in front of the system. To be liberal is to be split, it's usually called. We are a party in which many opinions are held. The issues that are being debated today are such issues, such as the requirements of citizenship and also of age assessments. Today there is also a motion about an amnesty. It has built up hope in many, probably mostly because it is not simply to understand how we work in the Riksdag. I have explained on many occasions in many contexts why I do not think an amnesty is the best solution. I'd rather see a change of law. At the same time, I have said that if there is a proposal for amnesty at Parliament's table, I will vote in favour of it. I will do so even though I am fully aware that a motion in Parliament, even if it is approved, does not mean a direct change. The same applies to the new secondary school law; it is not optimal, but it is something. For me, it's about if something has gone wrong, you should do what you can to correct it. The fact that we have systems that have not been able to cope with severe pressure has meant that individuals have been squeezed. The report contains many examples of how the individual gets caught up in the system's failure. There are also examples where I have a different opinion from that of my party. These are issues that I have been running internally and externally for many years. There are several motions from me in this report and also in other reports. In the spring, we will vote in favour of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and most people agree that the temporary law does not rhyme with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. We have a system for people's sake and not the other way around. When the systems fall, it is the individual, the human, that we should protect – not the system.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-271	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is in the initial stage of system collapse. The main contributory reason for this is mass immigration and multiculturalism. Decennial mismanagement in this vital area has contributed to the overloading of our security systems and the breaking of the police's monopoly of violence in much of our country. Let me take a few examples: from 1987 until 2017, the number of reported sexual offences has increased by 377%. The number of offences against life and health has increased by 145 per cent. In 1990 we had three exclusion areas. Today, the figures vary depending on who you talk to or what statistics you lean on. But it's well over 100, and it's approaching 200. The number is rising sharply. Of these, 53 areas are classified by the police as particularly vulnerable. In 15 of these 53 areas, the police have partially lost the monopoly of violence. Of 55 reported lex Maria cases that a Swedish medical journal reviewed, it was found that one in four deaths, 25 per cent, were due to a denial of service in the healthcare sector. MSB continuously reported that the overseas mass immigration wave in 2015 greatly overloaded Swedish healthcare. Increased sexual crime is a direct consequence of mass immigration. It is immigrants who are heavily over-represented in these categories of crime, not least in the case of group rapes. In principle, immigrants are the only perpetrators of these crimes. Increased crime in general is due to mass immigration. The criminal gangs that ravage our suburbs are by far the largest part of extra-Norwegian descent. Asylum stops and a stop to family migration for those who have come from extra-Nordic countries and an active and comprehensive return policy must be put in place. It is not enough to expel tens of thousands, as some parties want. Society needs to be mobilised to send hundreds of thousands home. For municipalities, this would ease the pressure on both care and benefit systems. This would create much-needed calm in the suburbs and thus reduce pressure on the judiciary. Citizenship is not something these oceanist elements should be able to hide behind. Both residence permits and citizenship must be withdrawn. The Finnish Immigration Service should be transformed into a return agency. Labour immigration may instead be carried out by the Swedish Tax Agency. The whole state apparatus must be mobilised in order to send home all immigrants who commit crimes or who abuse security systems. Only in this way will we resolve the initial crisis. Immigration continues to be only part of globalism, which hits the ordinary Swede hard. However, immigration is the urgent problem that needs to be resolved here and now. Thankfully, today there is a new immigration-critical party that is prepared to represent a straightforward and clear policy in this area. It is a party that will never compromise on the issue of migration, namely Alternatives for Sweden. While other parties that claim to want to address the issue have intermediate milk solutions, AFS presents the only way forward to save the welfare, security and future of our children.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-279	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2. Sweden has an extensive and rich outdoor life. Millions of Swedes, including hundreds of thousands of children, are members of one of the outdoor organizations that exist throughout the country. Many use Swedish nature through sports, tourism and recreation. Outdoor life reaches many social groups and, in addition to what has already been mentioned, is an important resource for regional development and thus an important part of the palette of industries that interact and create the conditions for a living economy in a living countryside. Sport has a strong relationship with public health and is today a larger sector, with more resources, than outdoor life. On the other hand, both are important and have strong links to public health work. One example of an initiative in this area is the half of the basic amount rule of the Social Security Act, which, for example, applies to the Swedish Sports Federation. Compensation for sportspeople from non-profit associations for the purpose of promoting sporting activities is provided for in Chapter 2. Section 19 of the Social Security Contributions Act, free of charge, if the compensation during the year has not been half a price base amount. Some who are not covered by the Swedish Social Security Act's half basic amount rule are Swedish Friluftsliv. The Swedish Tax Agency believes that the legal text states that sportsmen should be involved in the application of the rule. Sports affiliated to the Swedish Sports Federation are those that may primarily be the subject of this. But this also applies to similar activities, such as outdoor activities with sports orientations. A problem arises here when, with this justification, one has to define on a case-by-case basis what counts as sport and what counts as other interests. Mr President, I would like to If the aim of this rule is to promote public health through sport alone, difficulties will arise, since in practice this is a breach of large parts of public health promotion activities. In view of this, it is important that Swedish Friluftsliv with sub-organisations are also covered by half the basic amount rule in the Social Insurance Act as part of the work on outdoor development in Sweden. Svenskt Friluftsliv is an umbrella organisation for 25 non-profit outdoor organisations in Sweden that together have 1.7 million members, of which 300 000 are children and young people. Together, the organisations consist of nearly 9 000 local and regional associations. Svenskt Friluftsliv works not only to create the best conditions for outdoor life in Sweden and for member organisations to be strong, but also to raise the status of outdoor life in society and to care for and protect the right of public access. According to Swedish Friluftsliv and several member organisations, the big problem today is that the Swedish Tax Agency has an unclear interpretation and handling of the concept of sporting activities. This has led the Swedish Tax Agency in some regions to allow local outdoor associations, such as the Swedish Life Rescue Society, to apply the price base rule, while the same organisations in other parts of the country have not been allowed to use the rule. Thus, sporting activities have been assessed differently in different trials. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats believe that the government should return to the Riksdag with proposals that member organisations that are affiliated to Swedish Friluftsliv should be covered by the exemption in the Social Security Fees Act in the same way as organisations affiliated to the Swedish Sports Federation. One of our greatest public health problems today is the increasing sedentary situation, especially among children and young people. The daily exercise is decreasing, and the natural relationships to movement, exercise and stay in nature are becoming fewer and fewer. In order to overcome this negative development, efforts are needed and part of it is to strengthen the position of outdoor life in society and facilitate the organisations that carry out activities in the area.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-288	Mr President, I would like to This motion for a resolution is more important than we might want to admit. One of the movements is about increasing the conditions for the whole of Sweden to live, i.e. that not only the big cities but also the countryside should have opportunities to develop. That motion has been written by Per Åsling, and it is important to us in the Center Party. Per's motion shows how we can redistribute our common tax money by simple means so that they are all part of our society and benefit the whole country. Today we can see, and have done so for many years, how the country is split up and some parts of our country are contributing resources so that the cities and other parts of the country can have a prosperity that does not benefit those parts of the country that actually produce this prosperity. What, then, are I and Per talking about? It is, for example, ore mining, hydroelectric power and other natural resources that are delivered from one part of the country to another and that the country that produces this, especially the north, is not compensated for what it actually contributes. One might wonder why more and more people live well at the expense of others, why the migration chains from the countryside and Norrland look like they do and more and more people move into the big cities. In rural areas and in Norrland, schools, shops and businesses are being closed down, and more and more people are moving into the cities. You can change this. I'm going to take you on a little trip in real life. We travel through our northern part of the country to Krokom municipality located a few miles north of Östersund in the height of Trondheim. Then we go into the neighbouring municipality of Lierne, which is a small municipality on the Norwegian side, and then we go a bit up and then come back into Sweden. The small municipality of Lierne has 1,375 inhabitants. There are fresh schools, a newly built service building for the elderly, a new, beautiful sports hall and growing companies. Among other things, there is a bakery that runs double shifts and the whole ti it grows, a land-based red ingodling and much more. And listen and be amazed, there is the employer's contribution, which the social security contribution is included in, 5.2 percent. And how much is the employer's contribution in the neighbouring municipality of Krokom, which is on the Swedish side? Well, it's 31.42 percent. This means that the conditions in Krokom and Strömsund, as the municipalities are called up there, and Lierne are completely different though you actually belong to the same district. In Norway, companies and citizens are offered good service because they have a geographically differentiated employer's contribution. It is something we could also have in Sweden to give back to the district that produces part of our prosperity. This would contribute to a much better competitive environment for our northern regions than they are today and to creating jobs and entrepreneurship in rural areas as well. The system that you have in Norway has been approved by the EU – it may be so – and it could be transferred to Sweden. The Rural Committee proposed in its final report that employers' contributions be reduced and identified 23 municipalities in the northern part of Sweden. What the Center Party and Per Åsling propose is that this could cover the entire hinterland, what we call assisted area A ranging from Torsby in Värmland up to Kiruna. This would allow the whole country to move forward and the whole country would live. With that, Mr President, I support Per Åsling's motion.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-298	Mr President, I would like to As regards the report which is the subject of this debate, SfU19 on social security contributions, we on the Christian Democrats' side agree with most of the report. But we have a reservation, and that's reservation 3. It is about examining the possibility of giving more favourable tax rules to the non-profit sector. We say in particular: why not look at the rules that apply specifically to the sports movement? At present, it is not necessary to pay employers' contributions for sportsmen, trainers and competition officials if the remuneration is less than half a basic amount. Why, then, do we want to look at this? Because a strong and independent non-profit sector, or a strong civil society, as we say in the Christian Democrats, is an important part of society as a counterweight to both public and business. It contributes with community, association and people from different backgrounds. In many cases, it provides training in democracy and freedom of assembly and so on. This makes us think it is important to see how we can strengthen civil society. Here we have proposals, among other things, that we want to reintroduce the tax reduction for donations to non-profit organisations. We have proposals for a fund for investments in non-profit welfare activities. This is the background to the proposal that is also contained in this report.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-302	Mr President, I would like to In this report, the Court of Justice deals with the motion for a resolution on social security contributions from the general period of exercise from 2017 to 2018. The Moments address issues such as lower social security contributions for young, small and sparsely populated enterprises and exemptions from the requirement to pay social security contributions. I would already like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the motions. Social security contributions are the same as what we usually call employers' contributions. Social security contributions are charged to finance our security systems. It is parental insurance, which is parental benefit and costs associated with it. It is occupational injury insurance, which goes to people who have become ill or have had accidents in connection with work. It is the labour market contribution, which is unemployment insurance, activity support and costs under the Wage Guarantee Act. This is an old-age pension contribution, which contributes to Sweden's old-age pension system. It is a compliance pension contribution, which is a pension paid to families to someone who has passed away. This is sickness insurance, which is sickness benefit, sick pay, sickness benefit, maternity benefit and rehabilitation allowance. We are therefore debating insurance premiums for our welfare insurance. Who should be involved in paying or not, and to what extent? Our welfare policies are based on redistribution and solidarity, and they have been built up for a very long time. It is important to understand that what our social security contributions go to is our social security insurance. Mr President, I would like to Once again, in the report, there are motions on the reduction of social security contributions for young people, although the committee has noted in the past that the reduction of social security contributions for young people has not solved the problem of young people's unemployment. The previous reduction in social security contributions for young people failed because most of the resources were spent on young people who were already in employment or who were going to get a job even without the reduction of the social security contribution. Only a small part was targeted at those who needed it most, namely young people with low education or young people who, for other reasons, were far from the labour market. Mr President, I would like to The so-called growth support introduced on 1 January 2017 is temporary; it lasts until 2021. The aid involves a reduction in employers' contributions for one-person companies employing their first employee. For that person, the company only pays the old-age pension contribution. In addition, it is possible in assisted areas to reduce the contribution base for the employer's contribution and the general salary fee. This possibility has been designed so that it benefits sparsely populated areas when it comes to traders who are active in certain municipalities, including Norrbotten, Jämtland and Dalarna County. Exercises on reduction for sports clubs are a favourite in replay. The committee has stated on a number of occasions that the exemption for sports associations, which in some cases do not pay employers' contributions, should not be extended. On the contrary – we have instead said that it should be reviewed for members who are affiliated to the National Sports Federation, because they received the exception after a ruling of the Government Court. Already then it was said that it was important to understand why employers' contributions should be paid, and it was also for sports federations that have employed staff. As far as the legitimacy of social security is concerned, it is important to maintain, as far as possible, a link between the social security contributions paid and the benefits provided by these contributions to finance. Mr President, I would like to Once again, I call for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for all motions to be rejected.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-318	Mr President, I would like to With regard to lower social security contributions for young people, we have already had this debate once, about a year and a half ago, when the government removed the ineffective reform. Now, as then, I can only say that it was a bad reform with poor accuracy. Most of the money went to those young people who already had a job or were still going to get it, even without a fee subsidy. Only a very small part went to those who really needed help to get a job. All the government's own expert bodies have also noted, even during the time the Alliance was in government, that it was a bad proposal. The Council of Finance Ministers noted that lower employers' contributions for all young people are an expensive and ineffective measure to reduce youth unemployment. The Board of Financial Control stated that the impact on employment of a reduction in social security contributions is likely to be small and that it reduces the cost of employment that would have been largely done anyway. Even the agency that works practically with unemployment and the labour market, what we call the Employment Service, said that a research on the effects of employer's contribution cuts on employment in general shows negligible effects. I can only repeat what I said in the previous debate. The reform, which then cost about 14 billion a year, is estimated to have created 6 000 – 10 000 jobs in the short term. For the same amount, approximately 32 000 teachers or nurses could have been employed if their average salary was about 30 000 SEK. This shows how inefficient the reform was. It is still strange that the Alliance wants to reintroduce a reform that gave such a poor dividend per crown of tax. The subsidy per job created, when we abolished the reform, amounted to between 1.4 and at worst 2 million SEK per job. This corresponds to about four times the average government employment cost of 19 to 25-year-olds. There are certainly better and cheaper ways of stimulating the employment of young people. When this was last discussed, the committee noted that there was a great need to invest resources in more effective measures that could make young people who are far from the labour market and need help more employable. The government has already taken a number of measures. We have established the Delegation for Youth and New Arrivals to work, Dua, which is tasked with promoting government and municipal cooperation and developing new forms of cooperation. Dua's work has resulted in the Arbetsförmedlingen having entered into local agreements with 287 of the country's 290 municipalities to collaborate on interventions for unemployed young people. The Government has put forward proposals to allocate funds for a further increase in the knowledge transfer that has begun and which has been fully built up in 2021, comprises 93 000 places of study with student support in vocational adult, folk high school, university of applied sciences and universities and colleges. This also promotes the employment of young people. Start-up support has been introduced to increase recruitment for short-term unemployed and highly skilled unemployed, in order to strengthen their ability to enter the labour market. Here, too, it is to a large extent the case of young people. The Government also invests SEK 500 million to support municipalities and county councils that, with the help of additional services, have already hired or employ people who are far from the labour market. There are also many young people. We also have the 90-day guarantee for young people. This means a lower limit on how long a person can be unemployed before being offered a job, education or an action leading to work or study. These are long-term and cost-effective measures for young people who are far removed from the labour market and young people who really need help getting a job. Finally, it must also be pointed out that youth unemployment and long-term unemployment have continued to decline. It was at least in 2017 at the lowest level since 2003 and 2007 respectively. Despite the abolition of subsidies for young people, we now see that the sectors that traditionally employ many young people continue to do so with full force. Mr President, I would like to I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-329	Mr President, I would like to Of course, the Moderates are behind all the reservations of the Moderates and the Alliance, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation number 5 and reservation number 6. Cyber policy and digitalisation are a policy area that is taking increasing importance in our political debates and rightly so. With the development of technology and with more people who have access to more advanced technology, there is also an increasing demand for a conscious policy in this area. But precisely the availability of technology and access to data and the internet are crucial for Sweden to continue to be a country at the forefront. Over the past few years, we have not managed to maintain the position at the forefront that we have previously had. One of the strongest cards in our Swedish digitalization policy is and has been the availability of broadband, especially outside the big cities. But it is not clear, Mr President. There are still things to do. There is broadband support provided by the State to enable the roll-out of fibre and high-speed broadband in rural areas. It is therefore particularly worrying when the Swedish National Audit Office returns to the Riksdag and the Government and believes that the funds that have been set aside to expand broadband where otherwise it would not have been possible to expand in much too much has been used to subsidise expansion that had also been made available without subsidies. This is clear criticism from the Swedish National Audit Office and something that must be taken very seriously. The misuse of tax revenue must not occur, whatever it is. In this case, it means that we will find it more difficult to get fibre and high-speed broadband to the last corner of the house where it is absolutely most expensive. It is therefore important that the government now takes clear steps to ensure that the broadband support allocated each year is also used in the absolute best possible way. There are other things that the state can do to facilitate this expansion. There are a number of authorities that have a direct or indirect impact on whether broadband can or cannot be expanded, especially in rural areas. There is also a great deal of work to be done here. It is sad when we are reached by constant reports that the processing times for building a broadband connection under one road are getting longer and longer. We know that the Finnish Transport Administration is constantly trying to shorten the processing times to make this possible, but the result is disappointing, Mr President. Here too, clear measures need to be taken. I call on the government to do this. We also see a clear and rapid roll-out of the wireless connection. More and more people have high-speed broadband in their mobile phones, and the demands are constantly increasing. When new services come that require larger data volumes in a shorter time, mobile networks must also be included. There are also a number of things for which the state is responsible and which must happen. For example, there must be an escape e in the radio wave spectrum that the state controls and has in place in order to make this possible. The Alliance government took the initiative to auction the 700 band. Here we must ensure that our bluelight authorities have functioning communications while ensuring that there is a well-developed wireless broadband infrastructure in our rural areas. But the signals that are now coming are that we can't snow into the 700-band. We need to be ready for the next step in this, and we need to be ready to look at additional spectrum that needs to be allocated for this particular type of service. The alternative to this is that when 5G is to be rolled out in Sweden, there are not the natural resources required for this to be possible. We are lagging behind from being one of the first countries in Europe with a wide 5G expansion to becoming one of the last countries. This directly hits our Swedish competitiveness. To understand what 5G is really about, one can exemplify it by being able to perform surgical procedures from one side of the earth to the other side. It could be a control system for advanced industry. It can be about the possibility of running a smoke diver robot into a burning house instead of human smoke divers who risk their lives. And it can be about a variety of things. If, as a nation, we lag behind in this and at the same time say that we should have a high-tech and knowledge-intensive labour market, then it does not really rhyme with each other. That is why we must now look beyond the 700 band to see what is the next step, and it should of course be done in harmony with our European neighbours. It is when Europe and Europe stick together in these major technological shifts, support each other and cooperate that we have the opportunity to be truly competitive on the international stage. But, of course, in the European Union, Sweden must always have the leadership shirt. It is about Swedish exports, about Swedish jobs and about Swedish competitiveness.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-343	Mr President, I would like to It is cyber and telephone issues that are the subject of discussion here and now. We can then see that good mobile coverage and good connectivity are important for all people and all activities, both in people's and businesses' work and in people's leisure time. Both as a center party and as a representative of the Alliance, I am absolutely convinced that Sweden needs good mobile and digital communications that offer good geographical coverage, and with sufficient capacity for people and businesses in the whole country to develop and contribute to social work. Over the years of the alliance government, a wide range of measures were taken in this area, not least to improve mobile telephony and the coverage of mobile data. It was about amended legislation, better information and stronger consumer legislation. It was also about the networks, technology and radio waves being made available for wireless technology. Strong economic community support was developed to enable expansion where the commercial conditions were not sufficient for people to be able to take part in broadband and technology. It is certain that the development of digital transport infrastructure is and remains a crucial prerequisite for people to live and operate throughout the country. This means opportunities for new jobs and growth, but also access to welfare services of various kinds. The previous speaker, Erik Ottoson, mentioned some examples. In an international comparison, Sweden is still doing well, but this development is not in any way still. In order to meet future challenges and expectations, we as a nation need to be better at harnessing the opportunities offered by digital technology. This development must include everyone living in our country, especially people living outside the major urban areas of the Swedish countryside, which, after all, makes up the majority of our country geographically. The obstacles to those who currently lack access to broadband being able to access it are a huge challenge for us in the Swedish parliament and the government that has to implement the parliamentary decisions. This is likely to be reinforced as more and more welfare services and private services move over and are distributed online. In order for these services and developments to be available to all inhabitants of Sweden, the same conditions must also be given to all of them to get on the train. In this context, and certainly not in anything else, the state cannot retreat from the ambition that digital development should encompass the whole country and all the people who operate here. For the continued expansion of broadband technology in areas where there are no commercial conditions, state broadband support is of central importance. Therefore, we in the Center Party believe that it is important for state broadband support to go first and foremost to those areas where the commercial conditions for expansion are currently lacking. In this context, there is also reason to point out what many individuals, village groups and community associations and others bear witness to: difficulties in the management process of broadband support. I believe that this gives reason to review the functioning of the broadband support management process and to make it more efficient and easy to use for users. Another problem that we often run into is that the old copper network, which for decades was used for pure telephony and during a transition period was also used for data communication, is being shut down in more and more parts of the country. The Center Party and the Alliance believe that when someone is exposed to the removal of the old technology, better or at least equivalent alternatives to that network are needed before the operator is allowed to cut down or stop the service. The cutting down of the copper network risks affecting the sparsely populated parts of our country by far the hardest because it is often where the alternatives to the old fixed connection, for example in the form of a fibre network or a mobile network with a high transmission rate, are missing. It is therefore reasonable to require that operators providing the technology via copper networks can offer adequate remuneration at a reasonable cost for both telephony and broadband services before the old service can be terminated. Sweden needs a fast and secure mobile network with good capacity and better geographical coverage than today. There is reason to recall the important decision of the alliance government to release what is known as the 700-megahertz band in order to improve the opportunities for mobile communications throughout the country. My view and that of the Center Party is that the commercial availability of the 700-megahertz band is an important step towards better broadband coverage across the country. We therefore regret what we feel is the slowness of the government in dealing with the issue, which we believe has delayed work to improve coverage, not least in the Swedish countryside. There should be no more delays in this process. Once the 700-megahertz band is auctioned, it is reasonably both possible and important to meet the needs of both civil society and blue light authorities for the necessary frequency space. Mr President, I would like to I am of course in favour of the report that has been submitted here, as on the points on which the Centre Party or the Alliance has made a reservation, but for time to come, I only call for reservations 7 and 9.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-357	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2. It is very important that we really include everyone in the construction of society. It is easy to forget the countryside; it is natural because Sweden is a large country. However, it is important that we are currently really working to heal the gaps in our country in all infrastructure investments, including in broadband and IT infrastructure. It is therefore important that we review state aid for broadband roll-out so that it goes to the very areas where it is most needed. We have received reports in the Committee on Transport and Tourism that the system we have now built does not really put the money where it is most needed. This must be reviewed by the government so that we prioritise the most important first, in the whole of society. This applies to everything from basic security to infrastructure that allows you to live and operate. Digitalisation plays a major role, not least in enabling people to live and work in rural areas in other parts of Sweden, not just in the big cities. Investing in digital services can be both costly and difficult for small municipalities. It is important that we have regional and national cooperation to facilitate the task precisely for small municipalities. My party colleague Håkan Svenneling will speak further about the Left Party's position on this issue. I call for the approval of reservation 2.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-361	Mr President, I would like to I support all the proposals in which the Liberals are present, but for time winning, I only support reservations Nos 3 and 5. Mr President, I would like to Digitization is amazing. What opportunities are being opened up for both connecting communities and developing the services that are out there! Keeping in touch with family and friends with image transfer, being able to work remotely, being able to shop and shop, getting government mail, making doctor visits, studying and even getting food supplies – yes, the future is filled with opportunities! Good access to broadband makes it possible to live and operate throughout the country and to run businesses. A stable and fast connection throughout the country also makes it possible to develop travel-free communications, which is also important from a sustainability perspective. This means that you can organise and participate in meetings through online communication – good from a sustainability point of view but also because it makes it easier for more people to participate. Even the Riksdag has a Skype Room, which some of us use from time to time. Skype, Facetime, Viber and other platforms make it possible to communicate, participate in training courses and have contact with businesses, in addition to family and friends. Mr President, I would like to Sweden should have a world-class broadband connection, and everyone should be able to participate in the digital society. That is why we in the Liberals want to introduce a digital right of universal access that guarantees a stable and fast connection throughout the country. Broadband is, in our view, a fundamental part of Sweden's infrastructure. Access to good IT infrastructure is crucial for businesses, the public sector and households. Unfortunately, in many cases those living and operating outside urban areas still do not always have access to good connectivity. In its letter on digitisation policy, the Government states that it has an ambition that as many people as possible should have access to broadband connectivity, which in practice means that in 2025 there will still be households and businesses that do not have access to 100 megabits per second. In our opinion, this is problematic. However, we note with satisfaction that the government has recently amended the regulation on electronic communications, which means that the minimum speed of the internet connection included in the universal service has been raised from one megabit to ten megabits from 1 March 2018. This is something that we have put forward proposals for and called for in order to respond to developments that have taken place with increasingly rapid connection and growing data sets. In order for the digitalisation of the whole of Sweden to take further momentum, a further expansion is therefore required. This also requires creative solutions, such as the pooling of broadband infrastructure and other infrastructure, as well as a more rapid use of frequencies for mobile broadband. As the copper grid is shut down in several parts of the country, we believe that equivalent alternatives to the copper grid are needed to compensate the affected households. Otherwise, this risks hitting the rural population hardest because the alternatives there to a fixed connection, for example in the form of fibre networks or mobile networks with high transmission speeds, do not always exist or are very costly. We therefore want to review the possibility that responsible actors can offer adequate compensation at a reasonable cost when making these changes. We believe that this is crucial to ensure that digital accessibility throughout the country does not deteriorate when the copper network disappears. It is still the case that even in so-called dense regions, such as Stockholm County, there are places where there is no connection to the mobile network. We should not forget that rural and sparsely populated areas exist in many parts of Sweden. The Finnish Transport Agency as well as the other companies and a number of other state actors have fibre optic networks that extend across the country. They are mainly used to control railway and power lines. Some of these fibre networks are currently not fully exploited, as the Swedish National Audit Office has also pointed out in its study. Like the Swedish National Audit Office and several previous investigations, we believe that it is clear that the state-owned IT infrastructure is not being used optimally. We believe that it should be done. Mr President, I would like to Then there's the 700-megahertz band. Access to a good mobile network throughout the country also includes the issue of the 700-megahertz band. Our view is that part of the 700-megahertz band should be made available, which is an important step in improving broadband coverage. But we would also like to point out that the needs of the blue-light authorities should of course be included in this work and in that analysis. Finally, Mr President. On the issue of broadband support, I would like to pay particular attention to the fact that in the Liberals in our budget motion for 2018 we had more funding than the government had – about SEK 100 million more per year. Broadband is a very important part of the infrastructure with which we build society. Our citizens should be able to participate on equal terms. A good digital connection is important for both individuals and businesses, and it is an extremely important part of regional growth. But it is also a question of being able to participate in a democratic society and have equal conditions.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-377	Mr President, I would like to Access to high-speed broadband for internet access is a prerequisite for people to be able to run businesses, work and study remotely. Society is increasingly dependent on high-speed internet connectivity and on a robust system that contributes to better growth, increased accessibility and participation and contributes to fast and efficient communication. The Alliance government made major efforts on broadband within the rural programme, and efforts to improve broadband coverage must continue, particularly in rural and rural areas. The aim of the broadband strategy is for at least 95 percent of all households and companies in Sweden to have access to broadband of at least 100 megabits per second by 2020 and for the whole of Sweden to have access to fast broadband by 2025. Mr President, I would like to The Alliance government took the first steps to free the so-called 700-megahertz band to the market. It is now important for the government to carry out its work. While the 700-megahertz band is being auctioned out, the needs of the blue light authorities must be met. The police, the Swedish Armed Forces, the Swedish Civil Protection Agency and Säpo all point out the importance of continuing to have control over parts of the 700-megahertz band for their own use. The Christian Democrats believe that the remaining band space should be auctioned and left to the market for better coverage of broadband even in sparsely populated areas. According to the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, the 700-megahertz band is particularly beneficial for mobile broadband services in sparsely populated areas. In 2014, the government decided to open the 700-band for mobile broadband from 2017, and in the autumn of 2016, the current government decided to postpone the availability of the 700-band by two years. A commercial accessibility of the 700-megahertz band is an important step towards better broadband coverage across the country. I therefore regret the government's handling of the issue, which has delayed work on improving coverage, not least in rural areas. Now the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency has provisionally set the date for an auction, at the end of the year. In this context, we would like to stress the importance of avoiding further delays in this process. Mr President, I would like to One problem that stifles the roll-out of broadband is the municipal localisation principle, which hampers and stops the development of municipal urban networks and, by extension, also the roll-out of broadband in rural areas. 220 of Sweden's 290 municipalities have city networks. These complement other actors and contribute to the goal of a fully connected Sweden. In order to achieve the state's broadband target, a rapid change in the Local Government Act is required, similar to the one that has enabled municipal energy companies to offer their services across municipal borders. The Christian Democrats have pushed this issue, and we expect the government to make this possible in the near future. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats want Sweden to be the world's best at using the opportunities of digitalisation. This requires access to robust broadband across the country with high transmission capacity. We propose that the investment in broadband coordinators should continue. The coordinators act as a contact point for broadband issues in counties, for both public and private actors, and facilitate broadband work across the country. Mr President, I would like to Telia has started to phase out the fixed telephone network in order to replace this with fibre or mobile technology. This means that in some areas Telia replaces ordinary fixed telephony with solutions via the mobile network and broadband via the telejacket with fibre or mobile broadband. This has led to the loss of many subscribers who had previously operated broadband coverage. Furthermore, when fixed broadband disappears, there will be large additional costs for subscribers, who will have to switch to a mobile broadband solution that is not available to all households. So far, Telia has removed the fixed connection via copper wire for about 30,000 subscribers. From many quarters problems with connection are reported after the copper network has been replaced with mobile broadband. Rural residents are most affected because the alternatives there to a fixed connection, for example in the form of a fibre network or mobile network with a high transmission rate, do not exist or are too costly. The Christian Democrats believe that it should be self-evident not to cut off existing relations before a viable alternative is in place in the individual case. Mr President, I would like to The capacity of computer networks is becoming a growing challenge as new services are added, while consumers are becoming increasingly connected and demanding ever higher speeds. Parts of the fibre network are currently not fully exploited, as the Swedish National Audit Office also points out in its review World-class broadband? ................................................................. It is clear that state-owned IT infrastructure is currently not being used optimally and that it could be used more effectively if there was more coordination between stakeholders. In addition to reducing costs and increasing network security and robustness, this would also help to facilitate broadband deployment and thus achieve the policy broadband objectives. With this, Mr President, I call for reservations 5 and 8.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-394	Mr President, I would like to Members, listeners! Today we are dealing with the Transport Committee's report IT policy with some 40 requests from the general exercise period, the Government's letter How Sweden is best in the world to use the possibilities of digitalisation and the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the Government's efforts to meet the broadband policy objective. At the outset, I would like to support the committee's proposal in TU9. According to the IT policy objective, Sweden should be the best in the world to seize the opportunities of digitalisation. That is an objective that is binding. In fact, there are two things in particular: on the one hand, robust and reliable systems; on the other hand, accessibility and usability. Differently put, it could be said to work, and it should work for everyone. This puts IT policy in both a technical and a democratic context. The Internet Foundation's survey of Swedes and the Internet shows that the connected part of the population has increased significantly over the past ten years. Today, as many as 94% of the population use the Internet. All up to 45 years are currently internet users. Among 46-55-year-olds it is 99 per cent, and among 56-68-year-olds it is 98 per cent. Next to the entire working-age population, therefore, the Internet is currently in use. It is only when we look at those who have passed retirement age that we need to get a little or rather worried. In total, 8% of those between the ages of 66 and 75 do not use the Internet, and when we come to the group that is over 75 years old, it is as much as 43%. Although the change is positive and is moving fairly quickly, it is a fairly large group that is still outside what is becoming increasingly important to make our democratic society work. Today, knowledge of both the internet and its use is needed in practice. Therefore, the further digitisation of society must also be combined with an effort to educate people. The everyday digitization of Swedes is at a raging rate. When the Swedish Tax Agency sent out the declarations to the residents in 2017, it was 1 million who received it via their digital mailbox. This year, at the beginning of March, when the declarations went away, the figure has more than doubled. In total, 2.3 million people received their tax returns via a digital mailbox. There is a large proportion of those who have declarations, because not everyone gets a declaration. This says not only that we need to have faster broadband expansion, but also what digital maturity actually looks like. Access to broadband is therefore a prerequisite – not just for people in general. It is also a prerequisite for Swedish competitiveness and of course for a vibrant countryside. This is also why, for many years now, we have been supporting the development of broadband in rural areas both through the Regional Fund Programme, which links different locations, and within the Rural Programme, which reinforces the extension to homes, where there has been a lack of a commercial basis for expansion. It is not just private individuals, it is just as much about business. We need speed and robust broadband in order for the business community to function, both in rural areas and in smaller towns and in larger cities. It is also the rapid expansion and technological development that has actually made our capital today one of the world's leading start-up areas. This is therefore a very important part of Swedish competitiveness. It is also welcome that over the past year the government has not only significantly increased the target in the broadband strategy, but also in terms of the targets for how many people should have broadband. The new targets are ambitious, but they are not unrealistic. On the contrary, they can very well be met, and the new targets state that by 2025 everyone should have access to high-speed broadband. The Government has also presented a new digitalisation strategy and announced a new authority for the public sector's own work on digitalisation. Mr President, I would like to This is the last IT political debate this parliamentary term, and although I have a firm conviction about who I believe and want to form a government, it is nevertheless the case that our confidence is being tested by the voters. The voters are the ones who guide us in what constellation it will eventually become, so if you will allow me, I would like to make some recommendations on the challenges of the future. I believe that IT policy as a political area is over. In the future, we need to see digitalisation and information technology rather as a means of achieving other policy objectives. For the Committee on Transport, of course, the technical infrastructure will be important, and the responsibility for it should remain there. With great probability it will be the most important infrastructure we have in the future, as it will relate to all other infrastructure. It allows us to communicate quickly and efficiently without moving, and it will mean more than we can imagine. In addition, however, there is no need for a specific policy area. This is a prerequisite for democracy and education policy. It is about our integrity and making everyday life work for us as citizens. It's about being able to make healthcare and construction more efficient – basically everything. Information technology is probably also our weakest link when it comes to issues of external threats and how to approach defence and security in the future. It is the future competitiveness of our companies, and it is perhaps our most important education policy issue at all. But it is also a very important part of how we and the rest of the world relate to the UN's sustainability goals and world poverty. Yes, there's probably nothing that doesn't have to deal with the IT issues. I would like to conclude the last debate on this subject by calling on the government that will shape itself after the election to actually rethink and put the issues in a broader context. Digitisation and technological development must be high on the agenda in all policy areas. It is a means of achieving political objectives, and the overall responsibility can only be taken by the top management of our country.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-411	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Teres Lindberg, for a final and interesting reflection on IT policy! I have to say that it is easy to agree with that reflection. There was a time when companies reported in their annual reports that last year the company invested in si and so many new computers and so on. That time is over because it is considered to be a natural work tool, and you write just as little into new investments in computer or infrastructure roads as that you have changed the roof of the house. It is considered self-evident. I believe that Teres Lindberg is right that in order to have a functioning society, the IT infrastructure is a reasonable transport route. The Center Party, which I represent in the Riksdag, has highlighted ideas about considering IT – broadband, fibre and radio waves – as the fifth mode of transport, i.e. dealing with shipping, road, rail and air transport. It is important and an absolute prerequisite for life to work. Similarly, the Center Party has considered and discussed the possibility that why not also make IT investments an option when Trafikverket proposes solutions for how people's lives will be easier. An IT infrastructure should also enable people to benefit from education, public services and work. I would like to hear Teres Lindberg reflect on this.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-415	Mr President, I would like to Anders Åkesson and the Center Party have for a long time been pushing for IT to be the fifth mode of transport. That's an interesting attitude. But the way I see it, you land all wrong here. Information technology is a prerequisite for all modes of transport. It would be strange if you split it up as a very own mode of transport. Rather, it must be done in symbiosis. Even today, neither aviation nor roads in the form of cars or transport would work – or shipping, for that matter. Everyone depends on technology. In the future, we will be even more dependent on technology. Technology makes it possible to achieve more efficient transport in a completely different way. We simply take a very different view of the issue. It's kind of more mainstream than thinking of making it your own mode of transport.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-417	Mr President, I would like to I had an open and friendly mind when I asked for a reply, but I believe that we can nevertheless come together in a consensus, Teres Lindberg, in that it, whether we consider it a fifth mode of transport or how we choose to label it, represents a significant potential in making the modes of transport that are today considered traditional for the logistical part to work. As little as we can imagine a society without it, we can imagine a society without shipping or flying. It's an almost meaningless discussion. Let me turn to the second question. Could Teres Lindberg at least consider the question of Easter weekend? Could IT infrastructure – i.e. transport infrastructure, I do not call them services because we are not discussing public transport and buses, but the motorway itself on which the services are being transported – be made an option when the Finnish Transport Agency puts forward, in its national and regional plans, proposals for measures to facilitate people's everyday lives? If we do not succeed in this, Mr President, if the motorway does not exist for the visions that Lindberg and all of us are looking forward to, such as 5G telephony and the Internet of Things, then there are also no services for all people. Then it will be an extreme split of our society. At least the Center Party can't imagine doing that.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-421	Mr President, I would like to I know we have a great deal of consensus on the issues. Rather, it is about the choice of words and how to form. Regardless of how you look at the entrance itself, the IT infrastructure is a prerequisite for society to function today, and we are becoming increasingly dependent on precisely IT infrastructure. I understood that Anders Åkesson's question was partly about the Swedish Transport Administration's holding of IT infrastructure. I believe that in future we need to use all the existing infrastructure so that we can build the robust systems that are really needed. If we do not have robust systems, we will have problems with the functioning of society as a whole. That is the great challenge we face in the future. We need to find good and safe ways to use all the opportunities and assets available. We also need to expand and replace IT infrastructure at a high rate to keep pace with the present and the future.
i-PQM9H9gUxpZWFGJhLgkFEG	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Teres Lindberg, for an interesting speech. I am a little hung up on what Teres Lindberg chose to finish with, that is, the look beyond IT policy and into the full implementation of digitalisation in all our different policy areas. I largely share that ambition, and I think it is quite right to strive in that direction. In order to get there, I and many people with me feel that it is still a long way to go, especially with regard to the general knowledge of the potential that digitalisation carries in all our authorities, in the business sector and in the non-profit sector. Teres Lindberg wisely concluded by stating that the only ones who can carry the leadership so that we go in the right direction are the ultimate leadership of the kingdom. There is the concern that there are two or three ministers who share the questions. One of them is in the Chamber, and we will have to listen to him in a moment. Then there is Ardalan Shekarabi, who is responsible for the digitalisation of the public sector. The digital security policy lies with the Minister for Defence and law enforcement on another minister. This must, of course, be kept together in order for us to have better and clearer leadership of where we as the public sector are going. Then there is an official at the Ministry of Enterprise with a highly unclear mandate. How would Teres Lindberg want it to work for it to work better?
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-429	Mr President, I would like to Erik Ottoson raises an important issue. That is also what I reflected on in my speech. In many ways I agree with what Erik Ottoson says. I also think it is time that has its course. If we are to remain competitive in the future, we cannot see IT policy as our own policy area, but we must see it as a means of fulfilling all the ambitions of a political majority – whatever it is – in all other policy areas. That is really what my reflection was about. I believe that the government is right to set up a new authority to tackle the digitisation of the public sector. We've fallen for a little bit there. It hasn't worked very well. Whether we are talking about health care or the Swedish Tax Agency or how we buy our public transport tickets across different county borders, I think there are many of us who think that it has not worked properly. That's why it's great to get to grips with this particular issue, but I think you also need to see this in a broader context and in a broader perspective. Thanks for your line, Erik Ottoson! Now I'm gonna have to talk a little more about this.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-432	Mr President, I would like to What we agree on is that it does not work. Then there must be some kind of answer to what to do instead. I think we need to ensure that you have teeth at the central level so that you can lead the development is the right direction. We need to ensure that we have institutions and people with powers that can clearly identify where we are going – especially in a decentralised state like Sweden, where we have strong municipal self-government with 290 municipalities that all have different views. Then there may be good reasons, I mean, to have clear leadership. I have spoken with Teres Lindberg's party colleague, Minister Ardalan Shekarabi, repeatedly on this theme and called for leadership. I am still calling for it, because the leadership that exists today is, therefore, an authority that has not yet been formed and which, judging from the directives that have come, will not have much teeth, but more of a supporting role, especially for those authorities that show interest. There is also an official at the Ministry of Enterprise, and then it is highly unclear which minister to go to. It has to do with what part of digitalisation it is about. So everything is very unclear. We agree that it doesn't work, but what is Teres Lindberg's recipe to make it work?
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-436	Mr President, I would like to I think it's time that's gone its own way. We also had an IT minister under the Alliance Government with responsibility for digitisation issues and so on. We're past it now. We are also at the end of a term of office. I think it would be rather stupid for a government to reshape itself a few months before the elections. However, I believe that the next government must shape itself differently in order for it to become and work better. That is my call, and I hope that I and Erik Ottoson can take care of the fact that, regardless of who gets the voter's confidence to lead our government and our country's next term of office, at least we will both do what we can to ensure that we have a better system that works better and that also allows us to continue to be at the forefront when it comes to exploiting the opportunities of digitalisation – what is also the objective of the policy in this area.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-438	Mr President, I would like to Members! Sweden should be the best in the world to use the opportunities of digitalisation, we say. It may sound naive or restrictive nationally, but I think it is both possible and desirable. Sweden and the world are changing rapidly through digitalisation, and our country is one of all those who have the opportunity to take the lead in this change. We have high and broad expertise. We have many people who use the network and digital tools every day, both at work and in their spare time. We have a cutting edge in innovation and entrepreneurship that makes new companies grow with global ambitions. We also have a high-capacity infrastructure that reaches many, and we have objectives and investments that will enable everyone living in our country to join the train for the future. We are a functioning society with experience in building democracy and trust. We cannot be the best at everything, but we have the potential to be a global leader in using the opportunities of digitalisation and doing so in a way that promotes society as a whole. The broadband strategy and digitalisation strategy should be seen together. But also the cybersecurity strategy, which was decided by the government just a few weeks after the digitalization strategy was adopted a year ago, should be included in the discussion for the whole to be addressed. Infrastructure lays the foundation, you might say. In both fiber expansion and mobile networks, we are well positioned, although there are obstacles and problems along the way that we have to deal with. The tasks and works mentioned in the broadband strategy have also largely been implemented now, only a year later, but it requires further work and additional resources from the state to the same extent as this mandate in order to achieve the objectives. The goal that everyone should be able to participate in fast broadband by 2025 is absolutely crucial, I mean, for us to get acceptance throughout Sweden to take this technology step. It is also an important decision because the old and old strategy of reaching 90% can never have the same democratic foundation as a goal of the whole of society being able to participate. We have listened in the debate to among others Anders Åkesson and Robert Halef, who have raised questions about the copper network and the 700-band and how we can continue the expansion there. I think that we should be pleased to see that 4G has been rolled out and built on during the term of office. But getting the 700 band out is the next important step for the mobile network, and I am the first to agree that it should already have been done. It's taken too long. It has to do with discussions with the Swedish Armed Forces and the blue light authorities, who pretty late realized that they wanted to be on a corner and share those frequencies. But now it's on its way out, and the Post and Telecom Authority has a mandate to do so. As far as the copper network is concerned, there has been a long discussion for over ten years. I participated in the discussion here ten years ago, when the copper grid was shut down in the first areas of Norrbotten, and wondered what the compensation was. There has happened very little in previous years, while it has been discussed, but now we can say that we have a good solution in this area. We have introduced an Internet guarantee from 1 March which means that everyone living in the country when the copper network is switched off has the right to apply for support, even if they have not had a share of that network before. If you cannot get compensation from another player who works well and means at least ten megabits per second, you have the right to apply for support from the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency and get help to get not only a phone but also a decent internet connection that allows you to use the network to manage your bank accounts and see on SVT Play. I think this is a good and reasonable solution, which means that you only have to pay a maximum of SEK 5 000 if you are not included in the other networks and systems. It has to be said that it is a very humane solution we have found. It is not only infrastructure that is crucial, but skills issues are equally crucial. The digital divide we are talking about is that 400 000 – 500 000 people still do not have the opportunity, can or do want to participate. As more and more services from public authorities, health institutions and municipalities are being transferred online and when it becomes expensive and difficult to cope with life outside the digital society, the rest of us must do everything we can to help and find ways in and support for those who are at risk of falling behind. There's a lot going on around here in the municipalities. Libraries, for example, are central places in an increasing number of places for those who need help, and they have allocated greatly increased resources to libraries. The Swedish Post and Telecom Agency has special resources for disabled and elderly people to help and support them and be able to participate in the digital society. A number of other ways and actions will also be needed in the future. The competence issues are also crucial for the new companies and startups – those that are growing and that will make Sweden participate in international competition. Today, there is no way to cope with skills with only domestic labour. It is therefore crucial, for example, to make recruitment from other countries work better and more smoothly. We cannot afford to get stuck in paragraph-riding and inflexible bureaucracy and lack of housing if we want Swedish companies to grow in Sweden. Yesterday at the Ministry of Industry we had a seminar to collect where we are and what has happened a year after the digitalization strategy was decided. We got a long list. There's been quite a lot going on. We received over 140 different initiatives and decisions that have been taken in a variety of areas by the authorities and the government to implement the strategy. Sweden is far ahead, and a lot is happening. But we also have challenges to address where we are not at the forefront. We have a structural problem that involves difficulties. I am talking about the Swedish Constitution. Several hundred municipalities and regions have a high degree of independence from state power, many of which have been involved here. In addition, we have authorities which, although subject to the government, are used to acting and deciding in their areas. The decentralised management structure has been good for Sweden in many ways, but when it comes to making quick decisions in a transition that requires large investments and where things happen at the same time in many places it is not the most effective way. It also requires increased leadership. If we are to make use of the opportunities of digitalisation, we need greater coordination and clearer leadership from the state side. For example, we cannot afford everyone to act and invest independently of each other. It will be extremely expensive and ineffective. Swedish municipalities and authorities must be coordinated in a coherent system with a national infrastructure. One step forward is the new digitalization authority for the public sector, which is now being built up. The so-called soft infrastructure will be a key issue in the next few years. Considerable investment is needed here, and contacts between and with authorities must be simplified. Even AI, artificial intelligence, is a good example of why this is necessary. In order for us to make AI part of a functioning decision-making system, we need to get the data processed in order. We need to develop standards and structures for how data and concepts are to be treated. Then, in the next step, we can radically streamline the management and decision-making, which benefits people and quality of life. Health care is another area that needs to be coordinated in order for the opportunities and economies of scale of digitalisation to be exploited. Here, too, basic work is under way, but a great deal remains to be done. In my own field – the process of building society – we have now tried to show what such leadership could look like. We have invested a lot in developing standards and resources for Lantmäteriet and Boverket in order to get together a digitalised community building process. This will make a difference and also force municipalities to participate and use the new system, even if they do not have that commitment from the beginning.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-455	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for participating in this report debate! It's good, and it honors. One question: I share the ambitions of the Government and the Government. I think that the government's declared ambition for broadband coverage and capacity is the only reasonable one. 90% may have been reasonable when that decision was taken – it is always difficult to evaluate afterwards – but this meant that 10% of households would not be included in the ambition. With today's knowledge, it's easy to figure out about where these 10 per cent lived – it's a gigantic surface. There's no difference there. We've talked a lot about the technical stuff. The so-called 700-megahertz band has been and is an opportunity. It enables mobile coverage and use over surfaces, especially rural areas, and it works well. It's been a lot of trouble rolling it out anyway. In autumn 2016, at all-holiday, the government was basically finished and the agency was able to start an auction to get operators in the network. It was stopped, slowed down, and went on a long bench, and the industry decided that there might be a few years' delay. My question to the Government is: When is something happening, with what tempo and with what ambitions?
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-459	Mr President, I would like to I thank Anders Åkesson for supporting the new and increased ambitions we have with regard to the broadband strategy and many others. It would have been sad if we were to again take a decision that means that 1 million people are excluded, even in the long term, from the new technology. I think it is important that we agree on the change. As far as the 700 band is concerned, as I said earlier, it is a pity that the delay has taken place. I think everyone involved is aware of that today. PTS is now working at the rate they can to get it out as soon as possible. There will be an auction this autumn about the 700 band. There is a timetable that PTS has laid out, and then the investments will begin. I think it is important, because this is also a focus. You cannot choose to set it up just anywhere, but there is a clear focus: that the white spots that remain on the map and that do not have good coverage today should be covered. It is part of an important strategy to get safe and good mobile coverage throughout the country.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-461	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. This confirms what the industry judged to be two years' delay at the last stop. It was a pity that it happened – it is two lost years in digital development in large parts of our country. But it will be the autumn of 2018. In its speech, the Government referred to the provision of skills in the IT sector. It's a service industry that's growing really fast. People are entitled to professions which, at the time we had a telephone book, which we do not now have, would not exist in this year's edition, because there is a service development. As the Government said, this industry is driven by global companies, global service development and cross-border working methods. The government itself brought it up, and that is why I wanted to raise it. We have seen some examples of bureaucracy and paragraph-riding that stand up and are hair-traveling. These very cases have been highlighted because they concern a hot and very urgent sector that suffers from skills shortages. The Government is part of a government that actually controls its authorities with letters of regulation, supervision and other things. Then I have a general question, but it is linked to this IT debate. In what way have the Government and the Government tightened up these bureaucratic and paragraph-riding authorities, which actually make it difficult, among other things, to supply the IT industry in our country but also, in general, to fight with people? But it is it that we are discussing, and it is not a general competence debate.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-465	Mr President, I would like to I can't answer all the questions about how authorities generally mess with people and what we've done. However, with regard to labour immigration in particular, a great deal has now been done to ensure that the relevant authorities act more efficiently and quickly to solve these problems. There are a number of companies and people who have been affected by decisions that are perceived as well bureaucratic and square – I think so too – instead of the authorities trying to find solutions when there have been problems that have clearly not been about trying to cheat. So here we have done things now. You might think it's taken a little too long. But it has now been done. This is also something that I think we need to look at in the future. This is not temporary and temporary. According to many, 40 000 jobs could be filled in this sector – the programming sector, the IT sector and the tech sector – if only there were people and skills. We will now, of course, invest in expanding the courses in Sweden, which is now being done, and get more interested in this area. Even in primary school, we have now introduced programming courses. But we're still going to have to get people in from outside in the long term. It contributes to Sweden and makes Sweden and the companies stronger. This creates opportunities for companies to grow in Sweden. That's good. We are also getting more tax revenue in this way.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-469	Mr President, I would like to Digitalisation is fantastic with the opportunities there. In the Liberals, we have even expressed it as that we would like to see a digital right of alleman in order to really focus on how important digitalisation is. I noted one thing that Teres Lindberg said in a previous change of line, namely that information technology is a prerequisite for all modes of transport. I can agree with that. It also creates opportunities in other areas that we are working with. My question is about the responsibility of the Government and the Government to pool responsibility for what is the state infrastructure in order to enable consequences for other modes of transport. Let me give you an example. Digitalisation is very important when travelling – the possibility to buy tickets and to have them available and so on. This presupposes that there is a connection within public transport, but perhaps also that public transport and travel are made attractive in themselves, so that people can work while travelling, that they can opt out of the car and that they can do other things on their journey. Then there is a concern that the government's responsibility for this digital infrastructure does not always work. A typical example is this region, where you do not always have an internet connection. But the local authorities cannot do anything about that. It's a government responsibility. Then I think that we need to pool our efforts at the state level and ensure that the works and authorities responsible for infrastructure really do something about this, so that there is cooperation and that we all work together to tackle the challenges that exist.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-474	Mr President, I would like to For individual households and businesses, the decision I spoke of earlier is a kind of decision on a digital right of public access, which means that we now have a guarantee. This means that all those who do not have access to public networks and systems, and if they cannot have an operator offering a good connection and a good network connection, can contact the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency for help and support. This also applies, of course, to the Stockholm region. I know that there are occasional households here too who can have a way too bad connection to make it work. When it comes to how it works when you are in public transport, the goal is that we 2025 should also have mobile networks that are stable and safe even when you travel in traffic. This is based on the fact that we have time to take further steps to expand the networks and to introduce at least parts of the 5G network planned and discussed.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-476	Mr President, I would like to It would be excellent if the various ministers could pool together on these issues. This means, for example, that the government principal responsible for tunnels or parts of the track infrastructure must interact with the local one to ensure that this network will work. My tip is that you are happy to take a holistic approach to these issues. The consequences for travellers are enormous. If the traveller does not have his or her apps up and running, such as showing that he or she is a student or that he or she has his or her digital tickets, it is the traveller who has to take the consequences and, for example, gets an additional fee. This cannot be solved by the local principal. A common state approach is needed here, in which the various ministers can work together and try to resolve these issues. It has often been discussed whether it should not have an authority or a work in charge of all state infrastructure in order to see that there really is an effort there. As we often think that this is a local issue and that operators should do their bit, I think that the state should also look at how to make better use of the existing networks. How can problems be solved? We all think that public transport is a good way for people to travel. If we are to make public transport interesting to a great many people, people must feel that they can rely on internet connections to work and that travellers must not take the consequences when they do not work. Then we all have to work together. This cannot be resolved by the local operator. But the state can contribute to a solution. My contribution to the Government is that he is happy to talk to the Minister for Infrastructure to try to find a solution. I think that would be very good for the travellers in this region, who also come from elsewhere and suffer that this is not working.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-483	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for this tip. There is, in fact, a rather wide-ranging discussion about the very national infrastructure and also about the soft infrastructure, which I was dealing with. It is more about regulations, standards and systems so that we can reach authorities. It should be enough to go one way, and then information should be shared to the extent that is reasonable. However, we must continue to expand the physical infrastructure a little further in order for it to be available everywhere. The goal is for us to have stable and secure mobile networks throughout Sweden. This also means that when you travel by train, for example, you should be able to have access to internet throughout the journey. This was Nina Lundström too.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-485	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the post, Peter Eriksson! We agree with a lot of what you said. This is a very important issue. The opportunities of digitalisation are of great importance to society and its development. The goal is for us to have broadband coverage across the country, and the question is how we get there. We know that the 700 megahertz band will contribute to better coverage, especially in rural areas. However, one issue I missed in the speech from the Minister is the importance of municipal urban networks for further expansion or coverage in areas that currently do not have broadband and internet connection. The principle of location limits the opportunities for urban networks to offer services across municipal boundaries. Mr President, I would like to My question to Minister Eriksson is whether the government will work to make it possible to also allow municipal urban networks to offer broadband and internet services across municipal boundaries. It is an issue that the Christian Democrats have been pushing for some time.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-488	Mr President, I would like to I think it is good that the Christian Democrats are pushing the issue. It was also included in the broadband strategy, which we adopted just over a year ago, and we have given it to the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency. The issue is therefore being investigated, and we are doing so not for fun, but because we want change and because change is needed. There are quite a few municipalities where you have active and good municipal broadband companies that reach the municipal border and where it would be more convenient for the municipality located next to the village or community to take care of this. Where municipal boundaries are in the way of efficient management, we should therefore be able to change. I am waiting for us to get that proposal so that we, from the government, can make concrete proposals and make those changes. I have absolutely nothing against it, but I am in favour of doing so.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-490	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that we are in agreement on this issue. I share your description of what local municipal networks can contribute, Peter Eriksson. We already know that 220 of Sweden's 290 municipalities have their own urban networks that could contribute to better coverage in rural areas. My supplementary question is when the Minister believes that the amendment of the law can come into place.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-491	Mr President, I would like to I cannot give an exact date, but I hope that we will be able to get a proposal back to the government in the spring. After that, it will in practice be the new government that will be able to present a proposal in the autumn, which will hopefully come into force next year.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-492	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for an interesting speech and an interesting addition to the debate. I thought I'd dwell a little bit on the spectrum assignment. We have talked about the 700 band, and I mentioned in my speech that we must now also start to look beyond the 700 band and look at what additional spectrum will need to be considered for allocation in the coming years. That's where I think we agree. Something that has been touched on a little in the debate and that the Government itself was concerned about is the need for a functioning communication system and access to a rapid connection. I exemplified this in my speech with the Internet of Things, which is also becoming more topical for our bluelight authorities. For example, a smoke diver robot could replace a smoke diver, and police officers want body cameras with direct access to the control centre to transmit information about ongoing difficult situations. You can also use drones in a similar way. There has now been an investigation, as Holmgren has done, about how to work with this. I am therefore interested in hearing the Council's reflections on how he sees the way forward on this issue and on his view of the outcome of the investigation.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-496	Mr President, I would like to I don't think it's my job to take the role of the defence authorities and the bluelight authorities here in terms of how they should work with their network in the future. There is now talk of a Rakel 2, but what we have done is to divide a part of the 700 band for the blue light authorities. So they have the opportunity to use it, and of course they have the opportunity to use some other bands to the extent they need in the future. Nevertheless, it has created the conditions and a basis for the rest to be able to go out to the public and to the public network. However, I think it is perhaps better that this issue be dealt with with with the ministers concerned.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-498	Mr President, I would like to Then I have another question, which does not concern exactly this. This concerns the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism of how the broadband support that has been paid out has been distributed. It is estimated that it has been allocated to most projects and that quite large amounts of money have landed in projects that would have come off even without state support. After all, the audit report was embarrassing, because I believe that I and the Government agree that every tax chandelier set aside for this must also have a perfect effect if we are to reach the broadband target of 100% roll-out. We need to make use of the places where it expands commercially – it should be used without subsidy – and where we put the subsidy, it should be absolutely necessary. I am interested to hear the Government's reflections on this and how to move forward. At the same time, we also have quite a lot of problems, especially with processing times and an increase in the number of refusals of applications to, for example, pull fibre connections under state roads. The processing times are getting longer and longer, and it is also discovered that the rejections are increasing. How do the government and the Government intend to overcome this?
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-501	Mr President, I would like to As far as roads are concerned, I agree that this has been a problem, especially for gravel roads, and the Swedish Transport Administration has had far too long processing times for some time. We have had quite a lot of discussions with the Finnish Transport Administration and with the Minister in question, and it has now landed in that we have a common view on how to deal with this. We are now also trying to help set aside money so that the gravel roads can be kept in a condition that allows these efforts to be made without jeopardising the future status of the roads. However, there has also been a problem around the players who have been on the market here. They may not have always had sufficient training for those who have acted and have not done well enough, which has made the Swedish Transport Administration more and more restrictive in dealing with this. That's not good. We need to have an active expansion of fibre at full speed in rural areas too, so this is an important issue – which we are working on.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-503	Mr President, I would like to Having access to fast and well-functioning broadband seems obvious to most urban residents. However, in large parts of the country, in Sweden's countryside, fixed telephony has been dismantled without the mobile network having been sufficiently expanded. Market forces have not been able to solve the need for functioning telephony throughout Sweden. Many are the entrepreneurs who have got their legs cut off when the telephone or internet connection suddenly doesn't work anymore. The Left Party is working to create conditions for everyone to have both the right and the opportunity to live where they want to live in Sweden. A well-functioning infrastructure is one of the most important prerequisites both for business development and for creating good living environments where people want to live. This obviously also includes the digital infrastructure. We see digital communication as both a key to facilitating information dissemination and dialogue and as a means of holding down the number of necessary travel and transport. The need for fast IT communications in rural areas is great, but the market does not have the ability to develop broadband in a good and efficient way throughout the country. The Left Party believes that the state should therefore ensure the proper functioning of telephony and broadband throughout the country. Sweden now has an ambitious broadband target for 100% of all households to have coverage of up to 100 megabits per second by 2025, which is good. It is also an issue that the Left Party has been pushing for a long time. This is a good and important goal, and I now hope that the entire population of Sweden will be able to access good communications. Digitalisation may play a major role in the future, not least for rural businesses. For small municipalities, investments in digital services can be both costly and difficult to implement. Regional and national interaction can also enable them to take part in the development process. The Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development called for a more comprehensive picture of how the digitisation of society can contribute to a viable rural environment. The Government's goal that Sweden should be the best in the world to use the opportunities of digitalisation requires that we further strengthen this work. We believe that there is great potential in this area and that it should be further explored. Therefore, the government should set up an investigation into the possibilities of digitalisation for the whole country. Mr President, I would like to In last year's debate, I talked about the so-called SOT level, which is the basic level of connectivity to which everyone is entitled, and about the need to increase it. The then level, 1 megabit per second, was set in 2003, i.e. 15 years ago. At the time, Peter Eriksson was not Minister for Digitalization but Municipal Commissioner in Kalix. I was also clear that things needed to go fast – otherwise we would run the risk of the copper grid being shut down too quickly. It was therefore positive that the government and the Left Party in the budget agreed to raise the level as a first step to 10 megabits per second, i.e. twice as much as the agency itself, PTS, proposed. In the long term, however, the level will need to be increased more, at least to the EU level in 30 megabits per second. Several other parties highlight the support for broadband roll-out in the debate. Today we have good support of 1 billion, even though the aid is a bit difficult to apply for. What we need to think about is whether we can use other ways and models after 2020, when the distances between houses in rural areas will be even longer, making it more difficult to organise locally. This is why PTS's proposals from November last year are very interesting. It is proposed that in the future aid should be managed as state aid, that it should be outside the EU funds and that regional competence should be taken into account. This proposal is very close to what the Rural Committee proposed just over a year ago. I hope that Minister Eriksson will listen to and proceed with these proposals. Today, the state's own broadband ownership is spread out to various actors, especially at Trafikverket and Svenska Kraftnät. The government appointed investigator Åsa Torstensson, whose conclusions came two years ago. It would be good if the government went ahead with these proposals. It would also be good to consider whether the whole state ownership of broadband should not be brought together in a state-owned company. On behalf of the Left Party's parliamentary group, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 2.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-516	Mr President, I would like to For time winning, I plead for the Alliance's joint reservation 18, but of course we are moderates behind all our reservations. Sweden's road safety work has a leading position in the world. Road safety depends on a functioning regulatory framework that is perceived as logical by road users, safe roads, safe vehicles and, of course, the most important thing: the human factor. In order to continue reducing the death toll in traffic, we need to secure what works well and change what does not work. It is positive that the number of fatalities on Swedish roads in 2017 was lower than in the previous year. However, 254 abruptly completed human lives are far too many, and the distance to zero vision, i.e. that no one should be killed or seriously injured in traffic, feels long. Road safety training must start at a young age. As young people take driving licences later, many road users, pedestrians and cyclists have not been taught anything about road safety. In addition to parents, the school has a comprehensive responsibility for traffic education. The problem is that the commitment of the various municipalities varies greatly. The fact that young road users are clearly over-represented in the case of bicycle and moped accidents speaks clearly, namely the need for more education. When we talk about education, we must emphasise the importance of a good driving licence and driver training. Since 2000, the percentage of approved driving licences has decreased. In 2017, only 45 per cent of the driving licence applicants passed the theory test. On the driver's test, the result was slightly better: 46 percent. The statistics from January 2018 show even worse figures. A good 70 per cent of trainees in traffic school are approved. Of those who drive privately, about 35 percent are approved. These figures are very worrying. Driving licences are usually a requirement to get a job. At the same time, the driving licence process involves large costs – the average cost of a driving licence is about 15 000. The money runs easily when the driver's driver is forced to retake the test. It will easily be a step 22– you need a job to afford your driving licence and possible re-tests while driving a licence is required to get a job. The queues for a driving time are still long. It is a major problem that the proficiency test and the driving test for driving licence B are valid for only two months. Those who do not have time to complete both tests with an approved result within this time limit are forced to repeat both tests. We believe that two months are far too short and that a new system that is more flexible and more considerate should be explored. Furthermore, we believe that the test procedure should be simplified. For example, students who have made a minor mistake on the driving test should be given a chance to repeat that particular part of selected driving schools instead of retake the whole test. Mr President, I would like to Every road safety debate in recent years has highlighted the problem of so-called black traffic schools. Nevertheless, illegal activity continues unchanged and even increases. Unfortunately, black traffic schools are becoming increasingly common in the country. They are also becoming more sophisticated; in some cases the black business is so large and well organized that the students do not understand that they have hired an illegal traffic school. Rules on how many students one and the same person can supervise at the same time are circumvented in order to maximise the profits of the illegal activity. There is no insurance required, and taxes and contributions are not paid. In addition to the black driving schools competing out the legal ones, the young people who want to take a driving licence are fooled. They endanger both students and fellow road users because they lack the skills needed to teach someone to drive in a professional way. Personally, I believe that the introduction of a driving licence would make it easier for students to control the teacher they intend to hire before it is too late and expensive money has been paid. It takes a lot of effort to curb that kind of crime. It should not be possible to deceive young people, other driving licence applicants and society in an open and risk-free manner by conducting illegal driving licence training. To begin with, the number of wrist conditions that a person may have at the same time should be reduced from today's 15. The right of private individuals to own a double-commanded car must be limited. I would like to point out that we are not looking to make it more difficult for privateists who drive with their parents or others close to them. There is a broad consensus within the alliance parties on the need to set up an investigation into the entire driver's training system for both passenger and commercial driving licences and motorcycling licences. Such an investigation should be given politically determined directives and should be carried out in the investigative field, i.e. outside the relevant authorities – preferably as soon as possible. Mr President, I would like to Last year, the Swedish Parliament issued an announcement to the Government that the Swedish Transport Administration will be tasked with developing a strategy to ensure in future road safety work that roads are safer for all road users, including motorcyclists. Unfortunately, road safety is designed in such a way that it is adapted to the needs of motorists and not to those of motorcyclists. One example is the cable racks, which can be a death trap for those traveling on a motorcycle. Even road railings with protruding poles and sharp edges are extremely dangerous. It should be self-evident to use a railing type that reduces the risk of injury to all road users. Yesterday we on the Transport Committee received an email from Maria Nordkvist and Jesper Christensen at Sweden's Motorcyclists. The e-mail breathed apostasy. I quote: 中 Parliament's announcement to the government in 2017, about safer railings for the MC, has not produced results. No concrete measures have been taken during the period April 2017 – March 2018. No rules have changed. No funds have been set aside. No railing exchange programs are in progress. A railing protection has been set up since the project with sub-slip protection was completed in 2012. During the same time 29 motorcyclists have died and a large number have been injured in railing collisions. Obviously, the government has not been sensitive. We Moderates want motorcycle traffic to be included more clearly in the zero vision. Mr President, I would like to Driving a vehicle without a driving licence is a crime. Unfortunately, it happens daily in Sweden. Work on counterfeit and invalid driving licences must be stepped up. The government should also work in the EU to ensure that this happens in other countries whose citizens travel on Swedish roads, not least as drivers of heavy goods vehicles. More recently, attention has been paid to cases where driverless drivers have been caught in police checks but have not been convicted of any crime, as drivers have claimed that their foreign driving licences have been lost. In cases where the driver comes from a country with a poor licence record, it is difficult or impossible to check the data. Since it is up to the prosecutor to prove that a crime has been committed, the drivers are free. There is no requirement for persons who are not registered in the country to hold a Swedish driving licence. That's why you can't be judged for illegal driving either. Today's legislation has not kept pace with developments with all the necessary clarity. It is almost naive to hope that no one will take advantage of the possibility of circumventing legislation if it is safe. It also sends a signal that Swedish law does not need to be respected. Today's situation is both unfortunate and unreasonable. The deliberate violation of laws and regulations without the police being able to do anything risks further undermining confidence in the judiciary. Mr President, I would like to I feel a little like the Roman senator Cato the Elder, who concluded every speech with the words: "Otherwise, I believe that Carthage should be destroyed." Like him, I intend to draw attention, even in this road safety debate, to the problem of the Vellinge– Helsingborg section on E6. I am aware that we are not discussing individual objects and that it is not in this House that we decide which roads should be extended. It is the government that has the ultimate responsibility. The issue of the extension of the E6 is about road safety. In 2017, the route between Vellinge and Helsingborg suffered 292 traffic accidents, which corresponds to one accident a day, from Monday to Friday, all year round. These accidents and the queues they cause have great human and socio-economic costs. To avoid congestion, many cars and trucks take the small roads that pass our municipalities past schools and retirement homes. This creates great danger for vulnerable road users. If the government is serious about the re-launch of the zero vision, the extension of the Vellinge – Helsingborg route should of course be one of the highest priority infrastructure initiatives. If nothing else, the government should bear in mind that it is an election year and that six out of ten shows are for the expansion.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-543	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by agreeing with the previous speaker, Boriana Åberg. Since Parliament's announcement to the government last year about safer road tracks for motorcyclists, nothing has happened. So the government ignores Parliament's announcement. If you're going to blame the government or the Finnish Transport Administration, I'll leave it unsaid. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the zero vision, the long-term goal of no one being killed or seriously injured in traffic, has turned 20 years of age. One step in the zero vision has been to reduce the number of deaths in collisions through the introduction of railings, both to separate road paths and to prevent downhill skiing. For cost reasons, Sweden has chosen to approve unprotected railings, which for us motorcyclists have proved completely devastating. In Sweden, a larger proportion of motorcyclists die on European roads than in comparable countries. For several years Sweden has had the world's highest percentage of motorcyclists killed due to railing accidents. Only in the period 2016 – 2017 16 people died, and since the turn of the millennium 66 people have lost their lives. An example is the E6 stretch Tanum – Halmstad, where four people died in less than a year. Continued installation of railings designed solely for passenger cars and then placing these railings directly next to the roadway will lead to even more deaths, and that cannot be the will of the Committee on Transport. Trafikverket's national plan states that railings save five lives a year. But during 2016 – 2017 16 motorcyclists have died in collisions with railings, and death rates are increasing. The problem is that the Finnish Transport Administration proposes in its national plan, against the will and announcement of the Riksdag, that no effort should be made on motorcycle safety over the next twelve years regarding design, planning, operation, maintenance and research and innovation. Mr President, I would like to It is true that a large proportion of motorcycle fatal accidents are due to incorrect behaviour and driving strategies. But the very foundation of the zero vision is to create a road environment that allows for mistakes and does not cause the mistakes to lead to serious injuries and deaths. All motorcyclists who die of collision with railings and other obstacles in road safety zones are not traffic criminals. On the contrary, fatal accidents are due to a variety of factors, and also to deficiencies in the road environment such as poor friction, other road users' mistakes, technical errors, spillage and the like. Many years ago I knocked down my motorcycle myself. I came on a curve of 80 to 90 kilometers an hour on a 90-way. The Swedish Transport Administration had been out and put oil and loose gravel on the road without putting out a single warning sign. If that road had been equipped with wire racks, I would not be standing in the speaker's seat today. A cable railing or w-beam railing with protruding parts and unprotected poles is devastating for a motorcyclist compared to a plain railing with the Motorcycle Protection System or a plain concrete railing. The whole world knows there are better options. In a literature study, Sweden's Motorcyclists, the Swedish Road and Broräckes Association and VTI show that the chances of survival are much greater if you crash with a plain railing. The study has been presented to the Transport Committee. All research from the rest of the world shows that smooth railings increase the chances of survival without serious damage. Sweden must also begin to recognise this fact. Sweden has the largest number of motorcyclists killed in railing accidents in the world with over 20 percent of all killed in recent years. It is a bottomnote that the Swedish Parliament must work actively with to get away from. Each death is a great tragedy for both the deceased and his relatives and friends – especially when the deaths could most likely have been avoided by properly designed railings. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, I would like to draw attention here in Parliament's Chamber to the people whom we call death.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-556	On June 1st, a 24-year-old motorcycle driver will crash into a cable rack alongside the E22 and die.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-557	So these were the fatal accidents. A large proportion of these people would probably have survived if the roads had been equipped with a plain railing instead of these deadly wire railings. Mr President, I would like to I support all of our reservations, but for time to come, I only support reservations 5 and 19.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-560	Mr President, I would like to We are now discussing road safety, and both Boriana Åberg and Per Klarberg have raised some of this, namely the motorcyclists' very vulnerable situation. This has also been brought to the attention of all of us by their organisation SMC over a long period of years. Every death, regardless of the traffic law, is one too many, and preventing these must of course be the constant struggle of parliament, government and authorities. We note that for other modes of transport technology has been able to compensate for behaviour. The centre rails are intended to avoid frontal collisions between four-wheeled vehicles, but perhaps we can conclude that, in the case of motorcycle driving, the technology for protecting road users has become a concern and a danger to this type of traffic. Many tragic accidents occur otherwise in urban and urban areas, often in collisions between totally unprotected road users and heavy vehicles. There is a need to adjust the safety of heavy traffic, in particular to reduce the so-called blind spots of heavy-duty vehicles, i.e. the angle to the right of the vehicle where the co-trailer is not always monitored. Unprotected road users in cities and urban areas are preferably cyclists. An important part of the work for safer cycling is to increase the number of separated roads. But there will always be times when the traffic law is mixed. Drivers of heavy-duty vehicles often find it difficult to see cyclists, partly because they are smaller and lower, partly because of blind spots. There are studies that show that heavy-duty vehicles blind spots vary but also that there are techniques to remove the problem. It should reasonably be the case in this area of road safety, as in others, that those who manufacture heavy-duty vehicles are required to remove or at least minimise blind spots. It is not just a question of increasing road safety for vulnerable road users, but is at least as much a matter of the working environment for those who are professionally driving heavy goods vehicles in urban traffic. Mr President, I would like to A number of years ago, a winter tyre requirement was introduced for heavy duty vehicles. The aim was to increase road safety and accessibility. Since 1 January 2013, there has been legislation which states that trucks and buses with a total weight of more than 3.5 tonnes in winter should be fitted with winter tyres or equivalent equipment on the vehicle's drive axles. This provision was introduced in the light of the fact that many heavy-duty vehicles had been involved in traffic disruptions and accidents during the winter months. There is still no regulation in the European Union as regards the requirement to use winter tyres or the nature of such winter tyres, although we know that much of the heavy professional traffic flows across national borders. It is therefore reasonable that Sweden as a member of the EU is much more proactive than today in terms of both the requirements for winter tyres and the standard for winter tyres that will withstand Nordic conditions. As long as you have not defined what a winter tyre is, it is difficult to ensure that the requirements are complied with. On the same theme the government presented last autumn a memorandum proposing that all wheels including the wheels of any trailer should have winter tires during the winter period in our country or when the road team so decrees. There has been some criticism of the government's proposal. Among other things, Sweden's Åkeri company has rejected the proposal because it believes that there is a lack of scientific basis and sufficient social benefit to justify the proposed change. The same organisation, Sweden's Åkeri company, also points out that the Government proposal does not state any sustainable reasons that justify why the proposal should be implemented. It also refers in its criticism to the state authority Transportstyrelsen, which in a report to the government has proposed that the current rules should not be changed. In this, the Swedish Transport Agency stated that further knowledge acquisition is needed to see if the differences in grips between different tyres on ice and snow have changed compared to previous studies. According to the Swedish Transport Agency, which may well be considered to be an expert authority in this area, further studies are also needed on the impact of design depth and tyre quality, among other things. Sweden's Åkeri company, which represents a large industry in our country, proposed in its referral to the government that new requirements for properties of winter tyres in winter roads be introduced instead. It is the same demand and idea that I am putting forward, Mr President. Here it is important to define what a winter tyre is to get the benefits out of it. The Centre Party and the Alliance are of course in favour of measures by the government aimed at improving road safety, and the nature of the tyres, among other things, plays a major role. At the same time, however, we believe that, in the light of the criticisms made by companies and industry as well as by a state authority, it is important that the government deepens its knowledge of the subject as soon as possible before proceeding with the regulation. It's more important that it's right than it's fast. Mr President, I would like to Sweden and the state authority The Swedish Transport Agency applies the strictest requirements in the world when it comes to the field of vision, i.e. how much I see and how wide my field of view is. Today, the Swedish Transport Agency requires doctors to report people who have visited the doctor and who have minor deficiencies in their field of vision to the Swedish Transport Agency. The concern is that anyone who has the same flaws but who has not visited a doctor can freely drive and use vehicles and drive them into traffic without the Swedish Transport Agency carrying out any outreach activity. As a result of this action, a large number of people with minor shortcomings in their field of vision have been deprived of their driving licence in recent years despite the fact that they actually look pretty good. From the individual's perspective, this often means desperation and is perceived as traumatic, since access to driving licences – particularly in the case of professional practice – is often the very basis of livelihood. Researchers, road safety experts and ophthalmologists active internationally do not really understand why Sweden is doing this. There is more to say about this, Mr President, but I am content here and now to state that it would be reasonable for the government to have Sweden's very strict and perhaps in many respects square driving licence rules examined for those who see well but who have less flaws in their side vision, that is to say, the field of vision. Of course, I support the proposals and motions put forward by the Center Party and the Alliance in connection with this report, but for time, I am only in favour of reservations 18 and 23.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-577	Mr President, I would like to I'd like to start with my motion. Of course, I support all the proposals on which the Liberals are present, but I only call for the winning approval of time for reservation No 3. Mr President, I would like to I'll start with the gloom. Road accidents are assessed by the World Health Organisation as the fifth most common cause of death in the world by 2030. Sweden is one of the countries where a great deal of work has been done to increase road safety. So we are in a pretty good position, but we still have a lot to do to achieve the zero vision. It's about no one being killed or seriously injured in traffic. Unfortunately, 250 people died in Sweden in 2017. That's 250 too many. It is a challenge to reach the milestone by 2020 and not least ultimately the zero vision. In 2017, 148 drivers, 35 motorcyclists, 24 cyclists and 36 pedestrians were killed, of which two children were under 18 years of age. The Government states in the 2018 Budget Bill that the positive development of road safety has stagnated. Approximately 4,600 people were seriously injured in road traffic in 2016. The largest single group of road users who were seriously injured is cyclists. In 2016, 2,100 cyclists were seriously injured. Mr President, I would like to What are you supposed to do? Are there solutions? Yes, there are a number of measures that could be taken to increase the protection of vulnerable road users in any case. Dead angle has been mentioned in previous posts. This is not a challenge that only applies in Sweden. In Europe, approximately 400 people are killed every year due to so-called blind spots, that is, when a driver does not see through the windscreen or normal rear-view mirrors that another road user is nearby. Liberals want traffic rules reviewed. Some of these measures have nothing to do with whether there is money to rebuild the infrastructure or make other investments. The discussion should largely be about what we can do here and now. How can we change traffic rules to protect vulnerable road users, not least pedestrians and cyclists? We believe that the rules laid down in the Traffic Regulations on air travel obligations should be reviewed. We want to prevent blind spots in urban planning. We also want cyclists to be able to make a right turn when the motor vehicles have red. We want to give cyclists all green, i.e. priority at a intersection. We also want to introduce a one-and-a-half-metre rule which means that you have to hold out further from the cyclists when driving over. The regulatory framework and the design of road markings also need to be reviewed. There is a need for greater clarity in the rules in order to make it easier for all road users. Unprotected road users would be better protected with hopefully fewer accidents and increased road safety as a result. The zero vision also needs to cover public transport. The Parliament decided on the zero vision in 1997. It means that no one should be killed or seriously injured as a result of road traffic accidents within the road transport system. We have to do more. As regards the situation of children in the transport system, this is an issue that needs to be highlighted. According to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, the best interests of the child must always come first, and this should also apply to traffic. Priority must be given to the fact that children in general and not least schoolchildren have the opportunity to walk or ride to school or to a bus stop in order to continue in safe conditions. Such examples can be found in the vicinity of our county roads. Children's and young adults' cycling has decreased by 40 per cent from 1995 to 2014 – by 40 per cent! In addition, the number of school trips by bicycle is 50 per cent lower. What does this mean for children's public health and the possibility of being in an outdoor environment? We need to take more action. I thought I'd list a few more. We really need to highlight the children's perspective in the cycling or traffic environment. When we recently attended a seminar, I noticed that bicycle organisations that try to make efforts for children in the traffic environment and are seeking government funding are not actually getting the projects approved. That would also be an interesting example to highlight. How can we, together with a number of organisations, ensure education and enable children to stay in the public environment? Turning to the vehicles and what can be done to increase road safety: We from the Liberals have been in favour of increasing the winter tyre requirements for vehicles with a total weight of more than three and a half tonnes. Of course, we will also listen to the criticisms that have been made by various organisations, but we believe that we must remain open in order to consider how we can increase road safety. We who are on the road can note that there are a number of accidents every year when winter comes. We must prevent this. We from the Liberals believe that this studded car is a road safety issue. But they have a dilemma, and that is, of course, what they can lead to in the urban environment. In dense urban environments, they can contribute to particulate matter and reduce air quality. However, we believe that the possibility of introducing a stud-deck charge would be much better. Then the person driving a vehicle can make an assessment of whether or not studded tyres are needed. If you go into some urban areas with studded tires you have to pay for yourself. It is the classic principle that the polluter pays. Then it will not be a ban, and we put the responsibility on the driver. Prohibition is not an optimal solution in these cases, but rather a positive solution that also facilitates the driver's responsibility for road safety. Then, of course, the use of studded tyres should be reduced in some places. It's quite possible. There we need a review of the existing regulatory framework. I would like to say a few words about driving licences. We advocate a comprehensive examination of the conditions for obtaining a driving licence. There are a number of problems related to driver training that need to be addressed. I would, for example, like to point out from the Liberals that we believe that the regulatory framework for professional drivers needs to be reviewed. There we have tabled several proposals from the Liberals. But we also believe that there are other problems with the whole driver training system. We are in favour of a greater review of the conditions that exist. The proficiency test and driving test for driving licence rating B are currently valid for only two months. Those who do not have time to complete both tests with an approved result are therefore obliged to repeat the tests. The system should be more flexible and take into account, among other things, the life situation of young people. Therefore, we believe that the possibility of extending the validity of the approved proficiency test and driving test for driving licence B should be included in such an investigation. There are many other aspects of this issue that also need to be reviewed. Mr President, I would like to There are other parts of society that must also be highlighted. I want to highlight all those who do horses. There are 360 000 horses in Sweden. It has been discovered that there is sometimes a lack of adequate infrastructure for children and young people who are interested in and active in the field of horse sport. It will also be a very difficult traffic environment for some people. For those who bring a horse forward, the rules apply to vehicles in many parts, such as airing and stopping. Here we would like to see a review. Mr President, I would like to I would like to mention another issue, which is not directly related to road safety, but which is topical at the moment. This weekend we changed the bells. From the Liberals' point of view, this summer time is an important issue. The Transport Committee in Finland has been activated in the matter and lifted it within the EU and believes that it is time to give countries the opportunity to decide when and how to re-set the watches and whether to re-set them at all. On the Liberal side, we know with us that it is an EU regulatory framework and that this must be done together, but we are prepared to reconsider the regulatory framework.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-595	Mr President, I would like to Despite the development of road safety work with new technologies relating to road maintenance, new investments, better road planning and system planning, the number of road deaths does not decrease to the extent we wish. According to statistics from the Swedish Transport Agency, 254 people were killed on the road in Sweden during 2017. This is a decrease from 2016, when 270 people died in road traffic. People lose lives, and families lose their loved ones. More needs to be done to achieve the target set by the zero vision: no one should be killed or seriously injured by road accidents in the field of road transport. In order to reduce the number of people injured and killed in traffic, it is necessary to review the speed limit on certain roads, to improve maintenance and, not least, to increase the number of police officers on the road to prevent the progress of alcohol and drugs-affected road users, so that they can be stopped, and to maintain traffic rules. Mr President, I would like to It is important to increase the safety of motorcyclists, as has been said in the speaker's chair. One of the reasons for the high death rate among motorcyclists is the road railing with wire. Motorcyclists get stuck in these railings, with larger and more serious personal injuries as a result. We note that cable railings are still standard on too many roads despite the fact that the Swedish Road and Transport Research Institute, the Swedish Road and Broräckes Association and Sweden's Motorcyclists have failed the cable railings in a joint report and instead recommend smooth railings with sub-slip protection. The Christian Democrats believe that the Swedish Transport Administration should be given the task of developing an action plan to replace cable racks with traditional but modern road railings to reduce the number of killed and severely injured motorcyclists. Mr President, I would like to Every year hundreds of people are killed or seriously injured in road accidents involving alcohol and drugs. The Christian Democrats believe that under no circumstances should it be allowed to drive alcohol or other drugs in the body on land, at sea or in the air. It is therefore important to continue the preventive work on zero tolerance of alcohol and drugs in traffic and to ensure that the police are given sufficient resources for sobriety checks and the possibility to prosecute offences. Today, the police do not have time to carry out checks to the extent they wish, as they need to give priority to other crimes due to the lack of police officers. The Christian Democrats' effort of 10,000 new police officers by 2025 will allow for more police controls on road users, better control and better enforcement of traffic rules. Mr President, I would like to We welcome the fact that the government, although after a long time, has proposed setting up alcoboms at certain ports in order to counteract the alcohol-affected drivers on our roads. But now it's time to take the next step. The Government should commission the Finnish Transport Administration to investigate the need to place alco-boms at more strategic locations to make traffic safer and save lives. The government should also investigate the introduction of alcohol locks – or other technology that prevents drunk driving – as an obligation in all new cars in Sweden. There should also be requirements for alcohol locks in all new cars used in driving licence training in traffic schools. Mr President, I would like to In January 2013, winter tyre requirements were introduced for heavy-duty vehicles in order to increase road safety. Since it has now been over four years since the rules came into force, I think it is time to evaluate the effects of the new rules. The current winter tyre requirements apply only to the vehicle's drive axle but not to the wheels of the associated trailer. If the grip is lower on the wheels of the trailer than on the wheels of the driving vehicle, there is a risk of the combination folding. One example of this is the major accident on the Tranarps Bridge in northern Skåne in 2013 when a person was killed and 46 injured. The Christian Democrats propose that Sweden should also introduce winter tyre requirements for its trailer to heavy-duty vehicles in order to reduce the risk of accidents. Mr President, I would like to For many, driving licences are an important prerequisite for getting a job. Unemployment is high among young people and there is a shortage of workers with driving licences. This deficit will be even greater in the future unless efforts are made to increase the number of people with driving licences. The government needs to take a holistic approach and review the entire driver education system. The review should include an analysis of the different elements of driver training with a view to achieving greater efficiency. It is worrying that almost half of all those who pass the driving licence test fail. The government should carry out a major and general overhaul of the whole training of drivers, including motor vehicles and commercial vehicles, and not just passenger cars. Mr President, I would like to The queues to the driving times are long. At the same time, the proficiency test and driving test for driving licence B are valid for two months only if one test has been missed. Those who do not have time to complete both tests with an approved result within this time limit are obliged to repeat both even though one test has already been passed. This rule is stressful and also increases the cost of taking a driving licence. The Christian Democrats point out that this tight time span causes unnecessary problems for the individual. The system should be more flexible, and we propose extending the time span to six months. Mr President, I would like to Illegral transport schools are a widespread problem leading to unhealthy competition. 30 percent of traffic schools in Stockholm County notice competition from black car schools. Illegral driving schools often appear as ordinary traffic schools, so it can be difficult for students to see the difference. In order to make it more difficult for individuals to carry out illegal driving school activities, in 2012 a limit on the number of hours per person was introduced to 15. The Christian Democrats propose that this limit be lowered to five people per supervision and that the right of private individuals to own cars with double command should be limited. Another suggestion made by the Christian Democrats is that cars belonging to driving schools should have the same colour on the registration plates to make it easier for the police to control illegal driving schools. Mr President, I would like to I support reservations 8 and 18.
i-RFAV8DKpe5NH3ioqAfH5oc	Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject all motions. We are debating something that is very serious, that is, the risk of injury and death in traffic. Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to highlight this in an international perspective. As pointed out earlier in the speaker's chair, traffic in an international perspective is a serious reason for people's lives to end prematurely. Anyone who dies in tr afiken loses an average of 33 1⁄2 years of their remaining life span. In order to get a perspective on Sweden in relation to this, we have to say that compared to other countries there is less risk of being injured here per person-kilometre. Many come and make study visits to Sweden and wonder: How have you managed to make this possible? Zero vision is something that has become an export product. I think we should analyse a little bit what is good about it and how it has worked. And in what way could it be an example of how we deal with other serious problems? The climate threat is our generation's biggest challenge, and I think we should think about what in zero vision work could be applicable to climate work. What characterises the zero vision is a clear goal and follow-up milestones that allow you to quickly check whether you are heading in the right direction or not. There is clear control of all the authorities involved – it has not only been about the Swedish Transport Administration or the Swedish Road Administration but also about the Swedish National Police Board and others – to ensure that all government units are working towards the same goal. Zero vision has been characterised by working with actors outside of political life. Transport companies and road safety organisations have worked together, and politics has worked together with civil society. The zero vision has also been characterized by the use of modern research results and current research to understand causality. Finally, it can be said that it has been quite careful to use unbiased cost-effective measures to achieve the objectives it has set itself. For example, it has moved from building motorways for road safety protection purposes to two-plus-one roads with centre wire. Overall, it has saved many more lives per kilometre of investment than the old strategy. Automatic camera surveillance has been used, which was extremely controversial before it was introduced. But it is demonstrably very cost-effective both to get more people to keep speed limits and to save lives. Now is the time to take a new step; we do not seem to be reaching the targets. But then you also have to think in terms of what has been good and bad before, so that you do the right things. I would like to highlight four aspects that we need to address. I also believe that we should try to think about how we view road safety work together with other work in the transport sector that we need to do. We urgently need effective measures to reduce climate impact by 70% by 2030, as we have agreed in this House. That is the most ambitious climate target I know for the transport sector worldwide, and it will certainly take a lot of us if we are to get there. Then consider the transition from road traffic to public transport. It's a great way to save lives. The more people on the bus or train instead of travelling on the road, the more lives we save. Transition of goods from trucks, especially the long and large trucks, to rail and shipping to find the right combination is also a way to save both life and climate impact. But if we are to do this, we must also aim for speed. I once sat in a government investigation called the Environmental Target Committee. It was concluded that the most cost-effective climate investment possible was to put speed cameras on the roads. Nowhere could you save more CO2 per invested krona. It is time to make cities safer for those who are staying there. One of the major problems we have to deal with, which we have discussed in this area, is that of the seriously injured, vulnerable road users are an increasing proportion. The largest group of those seriously injured are cyclists. This works inhibiting for adult cyclists but certainly also quite a lot for parents who will think and decide whether their children should be driven to school or whether to cycle themselves. Unfortunately, statistics speak a very bleak language. Cycling among children and young people has decreased by 40% between 1995 and now. We can't have that. It is bad for the environment and it is bad for health. We must ensure that our urban areas have safe environments so that children and young people can cycle without being seriously injured. Traffic analysis has investigated the possibility of lowering the speed to 40 kilometres per hour. As far as I understand it, there have been very positive results, and the consultation bodies are positive. It is therefore a point that you have the opportunity to have a reduced base speed. Another thing that is important in this context, and which I am very proud and pleased that the government has implemented, is to tackle the problem of mobile phone use in the car. We have been calling for this from the Committee on Transport for a very long time, and I am very pleased that the government has dealt with this. You should have your hands on the steering wheel while driving. It has become a bit unfortunate about how quickly this is to be introduced for buses and so – I have asked questions about this in this House – but the goal must be clear: if you are responsible for the lives of others, which you are when you are sitting behind the steering wheel, you must focus and pay attention to it, and you should not be distracted by the use of electronic equipment. I share the Christian Democrats' view that alcohol locks in all vehicles are desirable. It should not be reasonable to be able to start the vehicle if you have alcohol in the breath. Of course, it does not solve all road safety problems, and it does not cover drugs other than alcohol, but it would have a preventive effect in terms of the totally unnecessary death on the roads as a result of someone driving drunk, and it would also have a public health effect in general. In order for us to do all this, we need to ensure that the police's resources are used effectively. I am very pleased that we have raised one point in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, which was already highlighted in a report 2002-2003. At that time, the Swedish Parliament made an announcement to the government to come back to ownership. This is an issue that has come to the fore when it was quickly discovered that ATK, automatic traffic control via cameras, is an effective way to bring down the speeds on the roads. As I said earlier, this was very unpopular at the beginning, but few today want to get rid of these controls, because they have a preventive effect. It is known, however, that some people escape the controls. What I have seen from the statistics is only 35 percent of those who stick to the camera images and have driven too fast that is actually being prosecuted. This is because it is quite cumbersome and ineffective for the police to compare the picture of the driver's license with the image from the camera. Given that the police today have very many tasks and we expect the police to solve many problems in society, it is highly reasonable to increase the efficiency of the hours spent by the police to ensure that traffic rules and speed limits and other things are complied with. I am pleased, then, that we in the committee, together, welcome the possibility of investigating the transition to ownership in the event of speeding. This means photographing the license plate instead of the driver and thus making sure to close the holes that exist today for those who very deliberately exceed the rules by wearing sunglasses, pulling down a screen or otherwise making sure that they cannot be identified in comparison with the driving licence pictures. We are also in favour of the municipalities being able to make a greater contribution. There has been a great frustration in many municipalities that they cannot be more helpful in police work. Of course, you should have a very clear limit to what is police officers' powers and what other professions can add. However, both in terms of environmental zone regulations and the ability to monitor speed in municipalities as well as dubbing bans and that people park in bus lanes and such things, it would be good if the application that the City of Stockholm has submitted to have the opportunity to allow parking supervision staff and other municipal staff to be helpful in the police's work in detecting crime and in punishing crime. This is an urgent issue, and I would like to stress again that if we consider road safety to be an important issue and combine it with other objectives we have, that is, to reduce the climate impact of the transport system, we can have many cost-effective measures that will achieve the objectives.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-632	Mr President, I would like to Swedish cyclists cycle every day 130 laps around the world. It's something absolutely amazing. Everything we can do to encourage vulnerable road users – pedestrians and cyclists – to stay in the public environment is good. We now see from the statistics that we have to do more. I noted when I went back and looked at statistics that are not contained in the report that 153 cyclists died in 2007-2012 and 44 000 had to go to hospitals because they had been injured. In 2014 – 2015 5 per cent experienced a collision with a car that suffered severe damage. Of course I feel like we have to do more. Much needs to be done with the infrastructure, for example when it comes to sand cleaning and rolling gravel that causes single accidents, but then there are other things that should also be done that cannot be fixed locally. One thing is to get to this blind spots thing. In other countries, warning lights are tested. The Dutch right turn is another example that gives cyclists priority to turn right at the red light in order not to get caught with a vehicle. Then there are the intimidating accidents on the road where it is a matter of protecting cyclists above all. My question to Karin Svensson Smith is: What do Karin Svensson Smith and the government want to do to quickly improve traffic rules? It is not budget-dependent and could happen very quickly.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-637	Mr President, I would like to The Green Party and the whole committee have announced to the government that adult cyclists themselves will choose where they cycle with a responsibility in the built environment. We have also worked towards the introduction of the urban environment agreements, and the municipalities have the opportunity to invest in safe cycling routes and get state co-financing for it. As far as I am concerned, it is a reform that you have deleted from your budgets. The whole purpose is to transform the built environment to achieve environmental and other goals. In it, an increased percentage of safe cycling is an obvious ingredient. I come from a municipality where the passenger traffic in the city to 43 percent consists of bicycle. This is mainly due to the fact that we put cycling and public transport first in terms of people's movement. I share the commitment that increased cycling is a very desirable objective, and the urban environment agreements and rules for cyclists are important for achieving those goals. I know that the Government Office is preparing the matter on the basis of the announcements we have made. The government has also presented a national cycling strategy. I see this as a start to a work for cyclists to be seen as their own separate traffic group that should have greater opportunities to be invited more to safe cycling. Then the state cannot solve all the problems. The municipalities also have a major role to play, especially with regard to maintenance of the municipal cycle routes. It cannot and should not be interfered with by the state.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-642	Mr President, I would like to One measure would be to change the regulations so that other vehicles get red light when a cyclist is going to make a right turn. Some countries do. Another measure concerns roads. Sometimes you ride on a very narrow road, and whoever comes in a car thinks you should be there. But if it is a cliff right next door, you want to be able to lie out in the road road and still be re-run under safe conditions. Therefore, many countries have a so-called one-and-a-half-metre rule. Anyone who drives past a cyclist must therefore keep a distance, so that there is a safe passage for both, and not take a chance when meeting with another vehicle. It's scary to experience meetings when riding on highways. A third example is warning lights used by some countries in red light. A warning light comes up so that the person sitting in a motor vehicle becomes observant that you have a cyclist next to you, even if you have a dead angle and thus do not see if you have someone next to you. These are dead angle situations that can lead to accidents where the cyclist is squeezed to death or injured. Then we have the opportunity to ensure that cyclists get the green light first at crossings and prioritised before the motor vehicles. Then the drivers also see the cyclists. By taking a number of such important measures relating precisely to road safety, and indeed the regulatory framework, we do not have to wait for new budget preparations. There is strong support. Many in the Committee on Transport think it is a high priority to facilitate and increase road safety for cyclists and pedestrians. Mr President, I would like to I cannot understand why there are no proposals. Why can we not take a stand on sharp proposals? It is often said that there is no support in Parliament. But I believe that there is support in Parliament to increase road safety and accessibility for cyclists and residents. When are the proposals coming?
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-648	Mr President, I would like to One proposal that has been made and implemented is rules on mobile use in cars. It is very important for motorists to see cyclists in time. I am in favour of all the proposals that are listed: to have a definite limit on cyclists, warning lights and to protect at the intersections. I have experience with withdrawn stop lines. It is very effective for cyclists to feel more welcome. It also carries a lower risk of being hit by a car, especially by trucks that do not see them at a blind spot. As far as vehicle regulations are concerned, as far as I know, Sweden is working with other countries in the EU to tighten up the regulatory framework. However, it is governed by whole-vehicle directives in the EU. In my experience, reduced base speed is very important for people to dare to ride a bike and for parents to dare to let their children ride. I believe that the government is working tirelessly in the spirit of the cycling strategy and to come back to us in Parliament with more proposals. I also share the view that we in the Committee on Transport are in agreement and in favour of doing more to ensure that cycling is a safe and self-evident way for people to travel.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-653	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the committee's report 11 on road safety. It is a policy area that attracts great political interest. We have dealt with 145 motion requests in the report. I am pleased, and I think that the whole committee is pleased, which thinks it is an urgent matter. I intend to focus on six areas in my speech. I will talk a little generally about road safety work, alcoboms – an urgent issue – communication equipment when driving, winter tyres on heavy-duty vehicles, driver training and, finally, road safety for vulnerable road users. What do we do about it? We have a long tradition of road safety work in Sweden. Since the start of the zero vision, as decided by the government in 2016, a revision of existing resources and work has begun on their proper use. Tools should also be used more effectively. It is now a few years since we adopted this document, which I show to Members of this House. But I was amused to read it yesterday, for the debate today. A lot of this is still on the table. And it is a living document that will also live on in plans, priorities and other things that the government will do in connection with future government decisions on the national plan. In 2017, 254 people were killed on the road in the country. That is, of course, 254 for many. No one's going to die in traffic. There has been a decrease. In 2016, 270 people died. But not for nothing must the work continue with great power. In an international perspective, Sweden is well placed when it comes to road safety work. Nevertheless, it is important that we do not snap our hands on our stomachs and feel satisfied with the work that has been done. In the autumn of 2017, the government decided to introduce alco-bommers at five to seven ports. This is an issue that we have debated a lot in this House. The committee has also given clear support to the government to introduce alco-boms. At the same time, it is important that it be right. We know what our port infrastructure looks like. It's mixed. We have wholly owned municipal ports and ports that are partly privately owned, which means that it takes a little longer to handle this in a good way. The Government has allocated 78 million for 2018 – 2020 to implement this. We expect the first facility to be operational by 1 July 2018. I am excited to interrupt any leave and other things to attend the opening of that facility during the summer. There will be a report of the mission to the Government Office no later than 31 March 2018, in four days' time. Then we'll get a description of what it's going to look like. It'll be interesting reading. I think we have also been successful in hand-held communication equipment when driving. I told my colleague Rikard, when we talked about it, that maybe we should have done this a long time ago. We made changes from 1 February 2018. And those of you who have joined the media know that the first cases have appeared. The first judicial review in this regard has been carried out. I, who do not have very long experience of parliamentary work, may think that we should have done this considerably earlier, perhaps also in a simpler way, instead of holding long debates. But not for nothing– now we have done this. And it will be exciting to see the development. Winter tyres on heavy duty vehicles are also an important issue that we have to deal with. Since 2013, there are requirements for winter tyres on the drive axle for all heavy trucks, heavy buses and class 2 passenger cars with a total weight of more than three and a half tonnes. Let's get on with putting it on all our shoulders. As Anders Åkesson said, this means that we are ahead of legislation in the EU. Then we also have to start a notification. The Government's ambition and our ambition is that d et should apply from 1 December 2019. I sincerely hope that we will finish with that part. The reason is once again that we want to tighten up the requirements and avoid the repetition of accidents that have occurred. This shall apply to all vehicles operating on the Swedish road system, both foreign and Swedish vehicles. There has been a lot of discussion over a period of time about driver training. A number of colleagues here have mentioned this in their speeches. There is a concern here about different parts. What has now happened is that an investigation has been set up to review the system. You look at how to reduce the number of re-tests. There is more focus on training road safety drivers. There we see that there are some shortcomings in education today. Some groups do not have the opportunity to train in order to obtain a driver's qualification. How to limit the number of black traffic schools? We see that they have increased in some parts, but not in all, of the country. How to use the new technologies with digital forms of education? There is a need for a review of what regulates education systems and other things. Of course, it is important that we link this to the zero 2.0 or the new start of the zero vision. Last but not least, vehicle technology is developing very quickly. I changed my own car a couple of weeks ago. It was ten years since I last switched cars, and the technology has evolved enormously in terms of warning systems and other things. We will very soon enter a period in which the proportion of self-driving vehicles increases even more. In that part, a review is important, and that mission is ongoing. We from the Green Party and the Social Democrats think that we should first let that investigation go to the finish. There are today reservations and demands for a new investigation to be launched to review the operation of the transport schools, which we do not think is very wise. The risk is then that the work that is done will be a parenthesis. Above all, the work may then stop. I would also like to remind you that, in a few months' time, we will be taking a decision in this House on the financing of credit for driving licences via CSN. It is also an issue that we from the Social Democrats have pursued as an election promise. There will then be more new groups that will be given the opportunity to take a driving licence. Today it is very difficult to be employed on the Swedish labour market if you do not have a driving licence, but that will be easier. I very much look forward to dealing with this issue in this House. Then I hope for broad support from many here. Finally, it concerns road safety, particularly for vulnerable road users. Several of the debaters have talked about cyclists. It is an important group, and – as many people here have said – it is that group that has the highest proportion of injured and killed per traffic category. This means, of course, that we must focus on cyclists. But there are also other groups, such as motorcyclists who are unprotected and who also have a significantly higher speed than cyclists. We made an announcement just a year ago that has been dealt with. This and visions about it are included in the road safety work. In the new start of the zero vision, it will also be a large and important part of how we will work precisely with the unprotected road users. There we have the task of driving the government that in turn can drive the Swedish Transport Administration and other actors. I do not think any of us in committee will be satisfied with the answer that little is happening. This is a question we'll have to keep under the rooster. There is also some research on this. I had the privilege of visiting VTI for another reason a few weeks ago. I then met some people in Linköping who showed the work going on with the group of vulnerable road users. Mr President, I would like to In these words, I would like to call for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-676	Mr President, I would like to I continue to ask questions about those road users who, according to statistics, are hit very hard, the cyclists. Swedish cyclists cycle every day 130 laps around the world. In transport policy, we want people to walk and cycle more. This means a smaller one in traffic, a smaller one in the subway, a smaller one in the commuter trains and otherwise. It's smart that people should be able to walk and ride their bikes. However, since it is so clear that it is cyclists who excel in these statistics, I think it is important to reflect on this, not least in the light of the fact that we discussed a bicycle report in January. The government parties then wrote that they will come back on road safety issues. The statistics are terrible. In 2016, 15 cyclists were killed in collisions with motor vehicles. Some 76 percent of those seriously injured were injured in a collision with motor vehicles. Among these collisions was the intersection in the densely populated area that was the most common cause. 50 percent of the collisions were thought to be due to the obligation to fly. At a stop light you can't see if you have a cyclist to the right who gets caught because the cyclist can't turn right before motor vehicles. Therefore, my question to Johan Andersson is: In view of the proposals that I have listed in previous lines, when will we get concrete proposals that improve the safety of cyclists and walking in traffic?
i-623T6WMPvTwaH7vDX15HUv	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Nina, for the question. It is quite right that, in connection with the announcement, there were also a number of proposals for regulatory changes. These changes are currently being prepared in the Government Office. I, like Nina, naturally hope that this will be handled in a good way. At the same time, it is also handled in a good way. We receive the views and complements that are needed. The two most attentive proposals that were made when we discussed the bicycle rules in the memo that was then issued were that cyclists aged 15 and over are allowed to use the carriageway. It was also about bicycle streets, not least when it came to crossings and other things. So the answer is clear: it is currently being prepared in the Government Office.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-685	Mr President, I would like to Many people say that a politician's best talent is to be patient. Right now, patience is running out a little bit. I think there is such seriousness in the statistics. We saw the statistics when we discussed the bicycle report. The statistics are now very clear in this report. Somewhere you get both sad and despaired that so many are injured when they do something that is really great, but they are unprotected and injured in traffic. Then I will again list some simple measures as a contribution to Johan Andersson, who represents the government parties. The first is: Make it possible for cyclists to make a right turn when there is a red light for motor vehicles! Then we'll get rid of a factor. Or you can put up a lamp that warns motor vehicles that there is a road user who would have to turn. The second is: Give cyclists all green at the intersections so that they take precedence over motor vehicles! I also think that the rule concerning road transport should be that motor vehicles should hold out one and a half meters from the cyclist, so that you do not get into trouble with the speeds that exist. During the Christmas weekend, I cycled in such a country. It's working fine. You put up signs where it fits. The whole of Sweden does not need to be signposted, but you should do it where it fits. Many of these measures do not cost money. I understand that there is an economic factor in this with better infrastructure, better sand cleaning, etc. This is a matter of regulations that are governed by parliament and government. I very much hope that we will see some suggestions. Now the time for proposals has expired, but I hope there will be something in some form or in a regulation to improve the road safety of vulnerable road users. They make a huge contribution through relief and durability. They're doing what we want them to do.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-691	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Nina, for your contributions to the processing process! Just as Nina herself concludes with, not all things that should be handled in the bill are. There are parts that can also be handled in regulations. Then the handling time is considerably shorter. I am taking these issues with me, and I promise you once again, Nina, and the rest of the House, that we are very much working on this issue and are really keeping it up to date.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-694	Mr President, I would like to The queues for driving are long. At the same time, the proficiency test and driving test for driving licence B are valid for two months only if one test is missed. In other words, if you do not have time to complete both tests with an approved result within that time, you will have to repeat the tests, even though one has already passed. So you have to start all over again. This rule is stressful for many, and it is also a costly issue for many schoolchildren. The Christian Democrats have proposed extending the time span to six months. Johan Andersson mentioned in his speech that there would be a review of driver training. My question is: will this particular issue be included in this review?
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-696	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Robert. I can't promise that part will come along. After all, we are not doing the review ourselves, but it is the Swedish Transport Administration that is handling it. We had a presentation by the Transport Agency in committee, pointing out a number of areas that will be reviewed– I mentioned them in my speech. These include the need for regulatory review and related regulation. I find it hard to believe that the question you raise is not included. Of course, there are also opportunities for us to make recordings. I am happy to take this part with me in the contacts and channels we have with the department, which then goes on to do so.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-699	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Johan, for your answer. I am pleased that you will pursue this issue further and ensure that it may be included in the review. Mr President, I have another question for Johan Andersson; it concerns alco-bommers. We have been pursuing this issue together in committee for a long time. As you also said, there have been test sites for this, and now they will come for real. The idea is that there should be stationary and, where this is not possible, even mobile alcoboms to allow truck drivers and others coming from ferries to be controlled so that they are not under the influence of alcohol. Alcoboms are very effective when it comes to stopping alcohol-affected road users, thereby further increasing road safety. Is it not time to look at other areas where alcoboms can be used to prevent alcoholic road users from entering our roads, such as exits and long-term parking at airports? Is there anything we can think of? I think it is important that we take this issue with us: how we can secure traffic and keep alcoholic road users from our roads. This is a contribution that I would like you, as a government party, to include in the review in due course, when evaluating the alco-boms.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-703	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Robert, for the delivery! I think this is an interesting question. Now that we are introducing the alcoboms in the future, we will not be content with that, but it is clear that there will be a follow-up to this. The question is exactly what it will look like. Technology is moving very quickly in this area too. You can find different solutions and models. I'll definitely take the question with me. As I said, we will receive the interim report from the Swedish Transport Administration on 31 March regarding the introduction of alco-boms. It remains to be seen what will be reported there. But there will also, of course, be follow-up of the investments to be made. There is therefore every possibility of including additional benefits linked to this.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-705	Mr President, I would like to It is important to review cable racks, W beam railings, protruding parts and unprotected poles to ensure that the most vulnerable road user group, motorcyclists, can be better secured. I look forward to the new start for the zero vision that comes and hope that this will be there – that a careful review is made. We need to promote sustainable means of transport and work early on with children learning to choose the right way. Cycling is extremely important, and we all know that many transport their children to the schools by car because it is unsafe in the school yard. It is important to show both that physical activity increases when cycling and provides incentives to build safe traffic environments around schools. We need to press further in this work, interact with municipalities and have a dialogue on how we can strengthen it. We also need to work more with traffic education in schools. Norway is a role model here. We have had a little less financial investment in traffic education and traffic teaching material. The NTF has pointed this out in the Committee on Transport and Tourism. We need to review and strengthen this in the future – it is extremely important. When it comes to alcohol locks, the Left Party has pushed for us to continue using the model we have before. It is positive that more and more municipalities are now looking at whether alcohol locks can be used more. It should really be more or less standard. When it comes to alcoboms, we also need to work more efficiently. We have had that question in the Committee on Transport and Tourism for a long time. We see major traffic problems precisely because of onyktra drivers. This also applies to the traffic police, which need to be strengthened. There is quite a lot of uncertainty on our roads, and many in the haulage industry stress the need to strengthen the traffic police in order to achieve a high level of road safety. Unfortunately, both drugs and alcohol are currently present in cabotage operations, and this is something we really need to do to strengthen and review. I am very much in favour of the fact that we have now made it illegal to hold a mobile phone while driving. This is going in the right direction. Another positive point, which is now under way and addressed in the report, is that the Finnish Transport Administration should adapt the speed limits for a lower base speed across the country. This will be very positive from the point of view of both the environment and road safety. Another important issue raised in the report is the road safety of road workers. It is good that more efforts are being made and that we are talking about better controls. Unfortunately, we have seen that many of the entrepreneurs who are active do not have sufficient margins to ensure that the workers are safe on the road. There has also been a bad culture: you drive too fast past the road workers, and many accidents happen. That is totally unacceptable. We need to talk about this, raise the ethics of all security work and work on this within authorities to make higher demands. Everyone should have safe jobs, including those involved in high-risk work such as road work. Otherwise, I support the committee's proposal.
i-fe9ed1ca269aba9b-715	Mr President, I would like to We are debating road safety. For safety's sake, I am already taking the opportunity to say that we are in favour of all our reservations, but for time-winning, I am only in favour of reservations 5 and 19. Being last in the debate is quite ungrateful. A great deal has already been said. Very good has also been said. Road safety is extremely important. My idea was to stand here today and screw up the government, but I can't do that. The government has introduced a ban on the use of handheld mobile phones when driving. It's very exhilarating. This is something that we Swedish democrats have been pushing for a long time. Imagine that there were parties sitting here and saying that we Swedish democrats were anti-technology – it was about holding a mobile phone in your hand! Then hands-free would have been around for a very long time. The law was correctly introduced, as Johan Andersson said, on 1 February and is therefore quite new. By the end of the same month, over 100 people had been prosecuted — suck on it! It's a big problem that we're sitting in the car and surfing. I choose to raise this today because I want to say how important it is for us to give the police the right tools to prosecute the criminals. Now I hope that those who drive and use mobile phones end up with it, so that fewer people get caught. Mr President, I would like to I'll talk about another problem. We have noted in the media that people drive without a driving licence and that they are not even punished. It is now basically risk-free for foreign citizens from countries without functioning registration to drive a car in Sweden without a driving licence. According to the judiciary, in these cases you cannot prove that the driver does not have a driving licence, and there is no requirement for persons who are not registered in the country to hold a Swedish driving licence. Therefore, they cannot be condemned for illegal driving either. From the day you are registered, you have one year to obtain a Swedish driving licence. In addition to the fact that this could endanger the lives of both the driver and the environment, we believe that these loopholes send a dangerous signal to potential future citizens: that the Swedish law does not apply to them and that the legal system as such is flawed. We need to be clear. If you don't have a driver's license, you don't drive a car either. We would like to emphasise that a driving licence is a licence, and it is hardly unreasonable to prove that you have the licence that you claim to have. There is a reason why we have a system of driving licences, and it cannot be undermined by references to a possible driving licence abroad that the driver cannot or does not wish to display. It shall not be for the police to prove that the driver does not have a driving licence. Mr President, I would like to As long as we're talking about driving licences, we'll figure out how to get a driver's license. As has been said earlier in the speaker's chair, driving licences for many are very important. It is not just about getting to and from a job, getting a job or having a vacation. It is also an expensive expense for many. We have heard appalling examples of how long it may take to obtain a driving licence and of the costs, particularly since VAT was introduced for driving licences in 1997. I took my B driver's license way earlier than 1997. I think the cost then was about 4,500. When I then took my licence for MC after 1997 the cost was increased – it was about 4,500 for the B driving licence. I think I had to pay 7 500 - 8,000 for the MC licence. Since it is such a heavy financial expense, it is very positive that you can practice driving privately to reduce the cost. To be able to practice driving privately, you have to practice driving with someone who has taken a tutor training course. For a long time, we Swedish democrats have thought that 15 permissions for supervisors are too many. We have driven, like Robert Halef, to try to reduce the number of wrist clearances to five. The permissions are valid for five years. So if you have 15 children, it is technically possible to educate them if you have one child per year. The amount of children should not set the limit there. It can then be noted that the driver test during driving is only a sample check. The person who does the actual driving cannot prove how safe a driver you are, but it is up to the driving instructor to see: Does the student have the necessary knowledge? I have received statistics from the Finnish Transport Administration regarding January and February this year. Those are scary numbers. I have only taken an average in terms of driving and skills tests. It is 48.88% of the women who survive. Not even half of them can handle the run-in. When I was listening to Boriana, I heard that the privateists were down as far as 30% – now I don't know if it was the women. But you can look at the men in the statistics I produced. Just under 44% can handle the run-up. You can see that there are long queues when they redo and redo and redo. We need to find ways to make it easier to get driving times. We think it is very important that we find incentives to remove the black driving schools. The professional choir schools which are also black and which obviously bring in millions of crowns are becoming a little harder to grab, but I am absolutely sure that we will succeed. But the first thing we have to do is make it harder to run black driving schools, which also deliver dangerous road users. Then, Mr President, I thought quickly about this with winter tires when it comes to lorries. I know that I have exceeded the speaking time; I apologise very much for that. But this is important. Today we have demands for winter tyres on the drive wheels when it comes to trucks. I think it's a great first step. Just like Robert Halef, it is important that we have winter tires on all wheels and also on the trailer, just like for car. The problem lies in that many combinations have a turntable and a kingpin that is connected, and since many may not drive frequently in Sweden, the oils and fats in between are not adapted for our harsh Swedish climate, which means that the combination can lock itself. If they do not have good tires on the front wheels, the disaster is there, and the trucks glide in the ditch. Again, Mr President, I apologise for exceeding the speaking time.
