i-264f0a754519b8b2-0	Mr President, I would like to Almost four years ago, the government changed its policy direction, and that has produced results. The economy is strong. A quarter of a million more people have a job to go to. Sweden is a leader in climate change. More people are employed in school, health care and care. And the public debt is the lowest since 1977. Ordinary people get a share of Sweden's success – families with children, students, union-organised employees and pensioners, who have built up the country of which we are all so proud. Politics makes Sweden stronger when we choose to invest in the common rather than making major tax cuts for those who earn the most. The growing prosperity can benefit the entire Swedish people if the political will is there. And the government is now taking the mandate's work to goal, with offensive efforts to expand welfare, get more in jobs, take new steps towards a fossil-free Sweden and speed up the establishment of new arrivals. Mr President, I would like to Four years ago, Sweden was in a difficult economic situation. The general government deficit had been allowed to grow to over SEK 60 billion. Despite many job vacancies, unemployment had stuck, and the number of unemployed young people was so high that Sweden received crisis support from the EU. Learning outcomes in school declined. And unfair, unfunded tax cuts were prioritised while jobs, welfare and climate had to stand back. Instead of developing the Swedish model, which builds Sweden strongly and successfully, the bourgeois government began its decommissioning. Step by step Sweden was allowed to become a little smaller as Sweden. Instead, during this term of office, the government has pursued a reform policy that lays the foundations for a better future. Deficit has been turned into surplus of SEK 50 billion. An unsustainable migration policy has been changed. And investment in community-building has reduced the gap and strengthened the economy. At the same time, the government has built shelters for worse times. Sweden is now better equipped to meet the future and its challenges. Mr President, I would like to Progress is moving in the right direction. And the conditions for solving social problems are there. It is the responsibility of politics to take care of them. A responsible government should act when police leave because of poor working environment, when parents are worried that their children buy contraband on a loading dock in the shopping centre, when cancer sufferers do not receive treatment on time because there are no nurses and when pensioners hardly have enough money to pay the rent. The responsibility is to continue to increase welfare, to fight crime by all means of the rule of law and to ensure that more people are brought to work throughout the country. The basis for all investments in the construction of society is that everyone who can work should also work. This applies regardless of whether you are a woman or a man, whether you are born here or have come to Sweden. The EU's lowest unemployment target guides economic policy. The government has introduced education obligations and abolished the custody allowance. Additional services for the long-term unemployed and newcomers are increasing. Because a quarter of a million more people have a job to go to since the government took office, the proportion of people who need support from social security or other compensation schemes is the lowest since 1981. The shortage of skilled labour is still high. 100,000 jobs are vacant. Those who do not have a job must meet both high demands and good opportunities to acquire the knowledge required by Swedish employers. The extension of the Knowledgelift until 2021 will cover 100,000 places in vocational municipal adult education, folk high schools, polytechnics, universities and colleges throughout Sweden. In order to facilitate trade union organisation, tax reductions are introduced for membership of trade unions. The Swedish labour market model requires strong and equal partners, a strong labour law, a high degree of union organisation and working conditions that are equal and sustainable. The jobs that are emerging must have good conditions, and social dumping must be combated. Sweden will compete with knowledge and competence, not with low wages. And in the Swedish labour market, Swedish wages and conditions shall apply to everyone.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-10	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish welfare model uniquely combines economic prosperity with high equality between people. The strength of the Swedish economy should be felt for pensioners who have been involved in building Sweden to the country that we are so proud of. In Sweden, we will honor our elderly, not tax them. The economy of families with children is strengthened when child benefit has now been raised for the first time in ten years. What we see in the future is that improved public health means that we both live longer and become healthier at the same time as choosing to have more children due to good private finances, reliable childcare and well-functioning parental insurance. The fact that both the proportion of children and the proportion of older people is growing is a sign of strength for Sweden, but it is also a development that makes new demands. Health care, school and care should be expanded at the pace of growing needs. And, of course, the staffing needs of the future will be met with more and innovative solutions. But that will never be enough. If everyone is to enjoy high quality well-being, regardless of where you live in the country, at least 200 000 people need to be employed in childcare, school, health care and care for the elderly over the next decade. This will be the biggest task for the next parliamentary term. The government has laid the foundation for this investment in welfare of over SEK 35 billion, which has enabled over 100 000 more to be employed in welfare. In school there are 28 000 more employees, in preschool the children's groups are the smallest in ten years and more are employed in maternity care, thanks to the government's support to county councils. It is on this road that Sweden should continue, with investments in welfare rather than making major tax cuts.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-14	Mr President, I would like to The foundations of a secure society are laid with high employment, a high-quality knowledge school and jointly funded well-being. However, security also requires a strong state that is resolutely fighting crime and upholding law and order. The rule of law protecting the security of citizens is fundamental to our democracy. To this end, security will increase in residential areas, train stations and travel centres, hospitals and schools. The protection of blue-light personnel shall be strengthened. And the fight against terrorism and extremism must be intensified. Border control is reinforced to strangle flows of weapons and drugs, which are the bloodstream of organised crime. That's why customs and the police have increased resources. In the run-up to this autumn's general elections, social institutions are being equipped to face both external and internal threats to the Swedish people's right to elect their own government in free elections. Journalists, teachers and librarians, who constitute the infrastructure for maintaining factual knowledge and free speech, shall be highly equipped. When false news, threats and hatred poison the democratic dialogue, Sweden should be a country in cohesion where freedom of expression is strong. Mr President, I would like to The gender equality revolution under the slogan Metoo shows that politics must be tightened up for an equal society without sexual harassment, violence against women and honour violence. This is why support for women's and women's shelters is increasing, which is why sex and cohabitation education is strengthened and the police's ability to investigate sexual crimes. But Metoo has also exposed what many have known for a long time, that inequality also takes concrete and appalling forms in our workplaces. To avoid being subjected to offensive treatment at work is a fundamental work environment issue. The government is therefore strengthening support for regional safety representatives. Breaking the culture of silence also requires strong union representatives and secure employment conditions. That is why it is almost astounding that there are now voices being raised in the debate in favour of the erosion of labour law. Has there not been any understanding of the testimony given by women throughout the Swedish labour market, industry by industry? How do you expect a young woman to stand up to the male boss if a protest leads to her losing her job? That is where job security is at its weakest, where the vulnerability to abuse is greatest. That is why, as a feminist, I will never accept an erosion of labour law.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-21	Mr President, I would like to The spring budget submitted by the government to Parliament is based on an agreement between the government parties and the Left Party. In the spring change budget, the government proposes summer jobs for thousands of young people, more resources for the police and customs and nearly 1 billion for the elderly to get more secure care and patients to get their care faster. In addition, we are taking new steps not to hand over the climate problems to the next generation. The projections presented in the spring bill extend well into the next term. They are based on the government's established and announced policies for the coming years. Another government with another policy also leads to another Sweden. That is why voters are facing a clear election this autumn. Should we build Sweden safely and sustainably with investments in people and in our community building, or should we make major tax cuts where most goes to those who earn the best? Should we strengthen people's security and build a sustainable Sweden that holds together, or should we legislate on lower wages and higher rents for ordinary people? My message is clear. Politics will continue to solve societal problems. We will build a safe and sustainable Sweden, and we will do it together.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-25	Mr President, I would like to Then we stand here with the conclusion of the four years with the government Löfven and Andersson. In the midst of a burning boom with increased taxes of 60 billion, care queues have doubled. A lot of kids are waiting to get to psychiatry. Police density is lower than in the past, and integration problems have increased. Mr President, I would like to I would particularly like to mention insecurity. The exposure to sexual crime has doubled in two years. A record number of people are now being shot to death. The gross violence is at record levels. During this reign, a whole generation of young women have begun to look over their shoulder as they go home in the evening. They are afraid of the open sexual violence in the streets, concerts and schools. I don't blame all that on the government. It's not Magdalena Andersson's fault. But the responsibility for not prioritising and not addressing the problems that have arisen during the term of office rests heavily on the government. We currently have fewer police officers than in 2014. There are empty seats on police training for the fifth semester in a row, and the drop-out from the profession is still very large. Only last year, Mr President, over 900 police officers chose to quit. The police density in southern Lapland, where I was born, is at night on an area as large as Denmark, a police car and two police officers. It requires strong and unconventional methods to reverse this trend: increased penalties, better conditions for the police and more police officers to stay in the profession. That's why we want to raise the police's wages by $5,000.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-30	Mr President, I would like to Increasing security and building a stronger society is one of the government's priorities. That is why we have tightened the penalties against weapons and violence. We have also increased resources for the police. As a share of the reform space, I think it is almost double as much as during the time of the alliance government. We are now also introducing consent legislation which will of course strengthen women who are victims of sexual abuse. Strengthening young women's opportunities in Sweden is a very basic task for me. This is also why the government is now investing more in sex education at school and strengthening the competence of our authorities in the area of sexual abuse. That is why we have repeatedly invested additional resources in women's shelters. It is very good that Elisabeth Svantesson brings up that discussion. My question to Elisabeth Svantesson is: How do we strengthen young women's protection against sexual abuse by reducing job security? Nevertheless, during the Metoo movement, we saw that many women – not least in sectors where there is a precarious employment relationship n – were exposed to various forms of sexual harassment and abuse. I conclude that we need to strengthen labour law in order to strengthen women's opportunities to stand up in those workplaces. Why do the Moderates want to reduce labour law and thus reduce the opportunities for young women to stand up to their male bosses and coworkers?
i-264f0a754519b8b2-34	Mr President, I would like to I hear the Minister of Finance did not want to answer the question why the police should not receive more money. Let me make it very clear in this Chamber: the Moderates do not want to impair job security and do not undermine labour law. It may be that the government will say so in every sentence until election day. That's still not true. I hope we can raise the level of debate. You're also confusing the cards. After all, it is your government and your colleagues who have been responsible for almost four years in Sweden. You can look at the priorities. You have actively increased expenditure by 100 billion during your term of office. Three per cent of them have gone to law and order and to the police and six per cent have gone to construction subsidies. It's money that goes right into the developer's pockets. In fact, you have not given priority to women's security. Instead, you confuse the cards and say something that is not true. You have the responsibility, and you have not given priority.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-38	Mr President, I would like to We would have liked to have further strengthened women's security in the labour market by strengthening labour law. But there is compact opposition in parliament from the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats to strengthen labour law. As far as the police and their salaries are concerned, it is quite correct that I did not answer the question. It is my opinion that we should not legislate on salaries in the Swedish Parliament. It is something that should be managed by the social partners. What we are responsible for is to ensure that authorities have the necessary resources to carry out their tasks, including the police. We have added more resources to the police and more than they have requested. On an overstatement, it seems that we have put twice as much of our reform space on the police compared to what the alliance government did in its eight years.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-41	Mr President, I would like to The last time I and the Minister of Finance were in a shift in line with these speakers, I asked the Minister if former Minister Ygeman's statement from January 2016 that 80 000 people staying in this country would be illegally expelled. I asked how this promise, this promise, or how to look at it, had turned out. I didn't get a very clear answer then, and in some sense I can respect that. We work with quite a few numbers and having everything in your head with just a moment's warning is of course not simply. That is why the Minister for Finance is now given another chance, and I am asking the same question as last time. Of these 80,000 expulsions – how far have you come? Is it 5,000, is it 10,000 or is it some other number? And at the pace you're holding... when are you expecting to finish?
i-264f0a754519b8b2-44	Mr President, I would like to There should be order in migration policy. Therefore, people who have the right to stay in Sweden, who have the opportunity to stay in Sweden and who have a residence permit, should have good opportunities to enter the Swedish labour market. That is why we have strengthened the educational opportunities, that is why we have abolished the custody allowance, that is why we have made the parental insurance so that we can get to work more quickly and that is why we are introducing an education obligation. That is also why we are making further efforts in the Swedish language in this budget. We know that Swedish is the key not only to the labour market but also to Swedish society. Here it is important that integration works, and we also see that the establishment is now much faster than it did when we entered government three and a half years ago. We also see that more and more foreign-born and newcomers are seeking out on the Swedish labour market. In the same way that people who receive a residence permit in Sweden should quickly enter society, it is of course important that people who are refused their application leave the country. The number of people leaving the country has increased considerably in recent years, both in terms of people who voluntarily leave Sweden and in terms of expulsions. The figures have thus increased in recent years.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-47	Mr President, I would like to So I am talking about people who have been rejected. We now have a situation where the border police put a lot of effort and energy into finding these people. When they have done their job – in a meritorious way, should be added, given the limited resources they work with – it usually happens that people are released into society again because there are no detention places. It's a big problem. The question is: does the government at all see this as a problem? And if so, what is the strategy for solving this problem? The proposal that you are presenting to Parliament goes completely against the principle principle that a no is a no and that if you are rejected you should leave the country. How does this fit in with the approach set out here by the Minister for Finance?
i-264f0a754519b8b2-50	Mr President, I would like to The government has intensified its work on expulsions during this term of office. This is partly about the fact that the police have received a large amount of additional resources, and partly about the fact that we have expanded the detention centres. We have also increased the cooperation that we need to have with the countries that are to receive their citizens; these include agreements with Morocco and Afghanistan. So the government has been working actively on the issues, and I see in front of me that it will have to continue to do so during the next parliamentary term in order for us to be able to ensure that those who are going to leave the country will also do so. I can see that this will continue to be a task. It is therefore, of course, a good thing that the government has made such extensive efforts on the police and has doubled the number of places in the police colleges so that we can ensure that we have the resources and the trained police officers that this work requires.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-52	Mr President, I would like to The 2014 election year, there were ten countries in the EU with lower unemployment rates than Sweden. The government, Magdalena Andersson and the Prime Minister went to elections on and have throughout their term of office said that the goal is for Sweden to have the EU's lowest unemployment rate. Now, four years of tax increases and anti-business policies later, 16 countries in the European Union have lower unemployment rates than Sweden. The question, Mr President, is simple in a debate such as this: does the Minister of Finance think that the goal of the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020 will be achieved?
i-264f0a754519b8b2-54	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish labour market is very strong. It is quite correct that Sweden does not yet have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU. On the other hand, we have the highest employment rate across the EU. In fact, not only that, but Sweden also has the highest employment rate that Eurostat, the Statistical Office of the European Union, has ever measured in any EU country. Emil Källström may not be so far involved in this anti-business policy. On the contrary, we see that during the term of office, 250 000 more people have been given a job to go to. The majority of them are in the private sector. The Swedish labour market is therefore strong. What is positive about the Swedish labour market is that not only are many more people who have a job to go to and one of them has a job and goes to, but there are also many more who seek out the labour market. We have had something of a supply shock during the term of office, where an increasing proportion of the Swedish people are seeking out into the labour market. This means that unemployment has not fallen back in the way it would normally have done when there are so many more who have a job to go to. This is basically something that is extremely positive, because if you are going to work, you have to start by getting into the labour market and looking for a job. The Swedish labour market is therefore strong. On the other hand, unemployment does not fall back as the government would have liked. However, this is not because fewer people get jobs, but because more people go into the labour market. This leads me to conclude that I do not want to reduce unemployment by preventing people from entering the labour market. It is now a matter of ensuring that those who come out also get the skills that Swedish employers demand. After all, we still have 100,000 vacancies that need to be filled.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-58	Mr President, I would like to It's funny that at least the social democrats of the hall obviously thought it was a good answer, given the applause. But the fact is that, despite the many words, it was not a single answer to what was my question, namely whether the Minister for Finance believes he is achieving the goal. The answer is very simple. The Minister of Finance does not dare to say what all sane assessors, reasonably including herself, actually realize: the objective that has been articulated unwisely will not be achieved. And that will certainly not be achieved with the policies that have been in force in recent years. The structural problems that the Swedish economy, and not least the labour market, had brought into the boom, we still have after four good years. That's what the government leaves behind. Even when analysing government policy on the basis of the objectives they set themselves, you cannot say anything other than that employment policy has been a failure. Sweden had 10 countries in the EU ahead of it earlier. 16 countries in the EU now deliver better. Sweden needs a better government.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-62	Mr President, I would like to To call the highest employment rate ever achieved in any EU country a major failure – it could possibly represent Emil Källström and a perhaps a little whiny opposition. We see, however, that we have 100,000 vacancies in Sweden, and we want to fill them. That is why we are making sure to extend the knowledge boost so that those who are unemployed today will be able to take the jobs that are emerging. That's why we invest in the trainee jobs, which are now growing and gaining momentum. That is also why we are saying yes to the social partners' proposals on start-up jobs. It is a way for the Swedish labour market model to take on the challenge of more new arrivals coming to work. There is one thing in which we have a clear dividing line in politics. Structural reform, says Emil Källström. We know what it means when the bourgeoisie talks. It is a question of legislating on lower wages. It's not the government's melody.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-65	Mr President, I would like to Some time ago, I read in the paper about Simon, who is five years old. He has a severe brain injury and was denied assistance by the Social Insurance Agency when his parents applied for it. Simon's not alone. He is one of thousands of people who in recent years have not been helped even though they need it. People are the weakest in society. These are people whose lives are now being ruined because they no longer receive the help they need. People with disabilities and severe disabilities need help in everyday life. Sometimes it is even a matter of needing help to eat or to breathe. The right to help is now denied in Social Democratically governed Sweden. The background to this is the directive that this government and Magdalena Andersson have given to Försäkringskassan to reduce assistance. That directive is very clear: costs are going down, and assistance hours are going down. I am proud that Sweden is a welfare society. I think that the reform introduced by the then bourgeois government in the 1990s around LSS was an important welfare reform for Sweden. But now that I see people denied their assistance – thousands of people who are the weakest in society are denied this – I am ashamed. Moreover, Magdalena Andersson's party colleague, who said in a recent newspaper that she is leaving the Social Democratic Party because of the policy you are pursuing. Why should it be saved on the most vulnerable children, Magdalena Andersson?
i-264f0a754519b8b2-69	Mr President, I would like to Assistance reform was an important reform of freedom. It gave freedom not only to the users but also to their relatives and to the parents of the children who need assistance, and it gave the parents the opportunity to remain in work. Of course, people who need assistance and are entitled to it should also get it. The Mats Persson directive no longer exists. It was in a year that there was such a writing, but it was then changed after criticism. Right? The government has not changed the right to assistance. The assistance is a right law. It says in the law what rights you have. Then the Social Insurance Agency is the responsible authority that applies that legislation. There is an opportunity for the individual to appeal if they believe that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency is applying the law incorrectly. As a result, there have been a number of judgments which have changed the application of the law and which the Swedish Social Insurance Agency is now complying with. There were also recent judgments that changed the previous judges, and this will now again change the application of the Social Insurance Agency's law. It is clear that some of these judges show that we may not have had the assistance reform that we thought we had. It is therefore important that the investigation that is now reviewing the assistance is given the opportunity to work clearly so that we can ensure that assistance is clear and that it creates exactly the freedom that was the original idea of the assistance reform.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-72	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting to note that we have a Minister of Finance who is now actively taking away his political responsibility for the fact that thousands of people have lost their assistance. This has not been the case when this criticism has been the greatest. Then the arguments from Magdalena Andersson have been that you need to do this on the part of the Social Democrats to get to grips with the cheating. I would like to say that I really think that all cheating within the LSS should be removed, but it must not be done at the expense of the most deprived. Magdalena Andersson says: Now we have changed the investigation. It's going on right now. People are still denied assistance because the old rules apply and because there is a great deal of uncertainty as to which rules apply. If political responsibility had been shown, when the criticism was at its greatest, one would have gone in and done something about the problem. You haven't. Thousands of people have lost their assistance. More people are in danger of doing so in the future. Why should the weakest in society suffer from your politics, Magdalena Andersson?
i-264f0a754519b8b2-75	Mr President, I would like to Now it's getting really weird. I have always been clear about what applies, namely that we have not made any legislation that changed the right to assistance, which may sound like listening to Mats Persson. The government hasn't. We were talking about directives, and I thought that Mats Persson meant the instruction given to the Social Insurance Agency, which received a lot of criticism and which we then amended. But this was not what Mats Persson meant, but he felt that the directive for the investigation would have affected the application of the Social Insurance Agency's law. But it's going to be really weird, and I hope Mats Persson doesn't really mean that. I believe that Mats Persson pointed out a directive that no longer exists. It does not feel like a serious way of conducting a political debate.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-77	Mr President, I would like to There was a time when the Social Democrats were proud but not satisfied. It was another time. Instead, they seem to want to forget the term of office, their government partners and their betrayed electoral promises and instead get Sweden to talk about the next term of office with proposals on mobile bans, school bans and job bans for some. It is easy to understand that the government wants to turn the page, because the financial statements do not look good. Despite the boom, more unemployed people in vulnerable labour market positions do not get the chance. There's fewer cops. It's a double line of care, and it's broken promises. The Social Democrats promised that everyone who receives cancer will start treatment within four weeks. But not even half of those affected by the cancer that yields the most lives in Sweden, lung cancer, begin treatment within six weeks. Magdalena Andersson was just on a nursing tour with Stefan Löfven. I thought it was a new S-marked But that was not the case; it was about making new promises and forgetting the old ones. When Åsa Regnér ended her position as Minister of State, she was clearly disappointed that she and the government had prioritised their care for the elderly. That's what she said in an interview after an interview. Now Magdalena Andersson has not stopped yet, but since the government seems to want to leave this legislature behind, I would like to ask: what area does the Minister for Finance think is the government's biggest failure? In what area is it disappointed with their contribution – is it the care, care, the police or perhaps the division into the labour market?
i-LHyyrFsPnG1TWwkA1kFR5u	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for an interesting question, Jakob Forssmed! Of course, as politicians, you should always examine yourself. Of course, there are areas where you wish you had done more. I, who am in politics because I really want to change society and that it should be noticed to ordinary people that society is moving forward, would of course have liked to do more on virtually all policy areas. At the same time, a secure welfare society must also be based on sound funding in the long term, which is why we have clear political restrictions on how much we can spend by having a fiscal framework to deal with. There must be order in public finances. I would have liked to have done more in all policy areas, but, at the same time, policy must strike a balance. That is the heart of politics: you cannot give everything to everyone, you have to give priority. We have clearly given priority to strengthening the economy of those who are in a tough position, reducing taxes on pensioners with the lowest incomes, raising the housing supplement, raising child benefit, which has not been raised in a decade, and strengthening the maintenance allowance for single parents. These are important initiatives, and I would have liked to have done more in these areas. After all, we have strengthened elderly care with a special focus on it and added more resources to the municipalities, county councils and school. Medical care receives 5.5 billion in the autumn budget. All those areas I think would have been good to be able to get even more resources. We have greatly strengthened both the police and customs, but here, too, I see that we will need to continue our efforts but also to invest in the other parts of the legal chain. The answer to Jakob Forssmed's question is probably: I would have liked to have done more of the most of the things, but at the same time, of course, as Minister of Finance, I also stand up for order in public finances.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-84	Mr President, I would like to I understand that it was incredibly difficult to choose. These are areas where statistics and financial statements do not speak for the government. If I'd been in the Secretary of Finance's clothes, I might still have thought that the care would stand out. Health care under the responsibility of the government has become increasingly insecure with doubled care queues and with staff who are working hard. But the government doesn't have the ability to prescribe the right medicine. Care queues have more than doubled in just three years. There's been a dramatic increase in the e.r. clocks in the E.R. Every ten older people are allowed to sit and wait for more than eight hours in an emergency room today in Sweden. At the same time, there is a lack of proper reforms to overcome this. The existing structural reforms were phased out. At the same time, you made it considerably more expensive for the municipalities to keep their doctors, experienced sociologists and experienced specialist nurses when you raised the special salary tax for older workers. Now, at the eleventh hour, you are trying to fix it by throwing some money into the spring change budget. It won't solve the problem.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-88	Mr President, I would like to Of course, the nearly SEK 1 billion that we invest in elderly care and health care in this spring change budget will not solve all the problems. But it is clear that together with the other initiatives that we have made in previous budgets – including 5.5 billion to health care this year – this will be felt out in the county councils. One thing that would not help, however, is the Christian Democrats' proposal for very substantial cuts in the local government sector in your motion on the budget proposal last autumn. For this year you want to cut municipalities and county councils by 4 billion – a cut that doubles by 2020, if I remember correctly. It does not hire nurses, teachers or nurses, especially not the way they want to use the money instead to reduce taxes most for those who earn the most.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-90	Mr President, I would like to The government has presented its last spring budget. The term of office is coming to an end, and it is time to take stock of Stefan Lövven's government. We are doing this in a situation where growth is good, where interest rates are record low and where employment is increasing. After a long and prolonged recession, global demand is now strong. It benefits Swedish export companies and thus also the Swedish economy. The economy is strong, but the government is weak. Sweden's growing problems have not been addressed, and let alone solved. This is a government that has not had the ability to make the decisions that equip Sweden for the future. It is a government that has squandered the fine opportunities of the boom and sent the bill straight into the next recession. The government has raised taxes by 60 billion. But what has the Swedish people got back? Mr President, I would like to Sweden is fantastic in many ways. Our country has been built up by generations before us through effort, ingenuity and libertarian values. We Moderates are convinced that Sweden can be even better for the next generation. But at the same time it is clear that Sweden has problems, and they are bigger now than four years ago. The government likes to talk about challenges, and so do we. But do not confuse challenges with problems. The fact that gross violence is at record levels and that killings have almost become everyday is not a challenge, Mr President, that is a problem. The fact that care queues have doubled and that not even half of cancer patients receive treatment on time is not a challenge, it is a problem. The fact that there are 130 districts where less than half of the adults go to work and that there are moral policemen often in the same areas that govern girls' and women's lives is not a challenge, it is a very big integration problem. Challenges are something you choose to take on. Problems, however, must be solved. Problems can be solved, but it requires a different policy and it requires another government.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-97	Mr President, I would like to In Sweden, we have medical world-class healthcare. However, too few people get access to care on time. Stefan Löfven promised that no one would have to wait more than four weeks for cancer care. Today we know what that promise was worth. Children and adolescents with anxiety and depression have to wait month after month to get in touch with psychiatry – this in the midst of a burning boom. But all of this can be done about. It's about priorities. We Moderates prioritise measures to shorten the care queues and halve the queues to psychiatry. In Sweden, Mr President, there are many who both want and can work, but who do not. Despite a strong boom, there are more long-term unemployed today than in 2014. Many of those who have immigrated to Sweden never come to work, and for many others it takes far too long. Unless this trend reverses, the costs of local government social assistance will explode dramatically over the next few years. More people who have immigrated here must get into work and into society. In Sweden, there are many children who inherit the alienation of their parents. But it is possible to correct a policy that expects more of everyone who lives here, which provides tools for people to influence their own situation. We want to provide better conditions for those who have immigrated here to enter the labour market. We prioritise higher demands for those who live on subsidies. Mr President, I would like to Learning the Swedish language is the key to getting to work. Our party leader usually says that perfect Swedish is overrated, but being able to understand Swedish is underestimated. But then the requirements for learning to understand Swedish need to increase. Sweden has no such requirements today. We Moderates want to change that. Today there are children who speak much better Swedish than their parents. Instead of being met with high expectations for school results, they are expected to be interpreters for their parents and maintain contact with authorities for their mother and father. Such a responsibility should not be imposed on children. More children should see their parents go to work. More children will have the opportunity to attend preschool. More children will succeed in their schooling.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-103	In Sweden we also have police officers who want to be able to do a good job and who risk their lives for the rest of us to be safe. I and many people with me are proud of how the police handled the terrorist attack on Drottninggatan. I know I speak for many Swedes when I say that the police must feel that we stand up for the important work they are doing. At the same time, gang crime is spreading. Rape cases are being piled up. International theft leagues are spreading around Sweden, and this situation is getting worse. But it is possible to reverse developments, Mr President, with a policy that gives priority to better conditions for the police to do their job. We Moderates invest in resource supplements to the Police Authority so that the police can become more, but also so that each police officer can get SEK 3 000 more in salary every month – this for more to stay in the profession and for more to want to become police officers. Mr President, I would like to Anyone who is able to deal with the problems in society is also in a very good position to address the challenges, and not least to take advantage of the opportunities that we have. Imagine, if we had been able to stand here today with several years of strong economic activity in our backs and instead have to focus on the challenges of the future, on technological development and AI digitalization – all of this that facilitates our everyday lives and changes our way of living and working in the future. Demographic trends show that we are living longer and healthier up in the years. This is the challenge of how our Swedish companies, small and large, can grow and employ. We cannot take entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship, job growth and Swedish competitiveness for granted. Mr President, I would like to I really wish that we could have gone into the depths of this debate with the challenges of the future instead of discussing and focusing on emergency emergencies because this government is unable to fulfil its core tasks. I do not blame all the problems on the government, but the responsibility for not taking hold of the problems rests heavily on the government. It is the one who has allowed the care queues to double, allowed the security crisis to escalate and the integration problems to increase. In addition, a sufficient buffer has not been built up for falling and for worse times. And believe me, it's coming! Instead, the Minister of Finance has increased expenditure by 100 billion, expenditure which, in the fall, will require even greater priorities in the next parliamentary term. And despite Magdalena Andersson's speech in the election campaign that she would absolutely stick to the surplus target, it only took a few days at work before she wanted to lower it. She has also already said that she wants to lower it further. Mr President, I would like to I am convinced that progress can be reversed, but it requires politicians who can prioritise and who can make tough decisions. We Moderates will present our draft budget to Parliament in a few weeks' time. In this we focus on that it always pays better to work than to stack contributions on each other. That is why we need lower taxes on low incomes and a premium ceiling. We will prioritise that those who enter the country also have their own responsibility to enter society. Therefore, language requirements for citizenship and higher expectations of immigrants are needed. We will give priority to the fact that the police really get the support they need and that more serious crimes have greater consequences. There is a need for more police officers with higher salaries, and more severe penalties are needed. Anyone in need of care should not have to suffer in long queues. The person who gives birth should be allowed to do so at the BB and not in a car or have to be flown to Finland. We need an advanced queue billions and more specialist nurses. Mr President, I would like to The problem solver can also face up to the challenges. We in the Alliance have done it before, and we can do it again.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-114	Mr President, I would like to In the coming years, Sweden is facing a major task. We live longer and more and more children. This is a positive development, but it also means that welfare will have to be expanded. There are at least 200 000 more welfare workers in the coming decade. More nurses, teachers, nurses, child care workers, home care staff and all others who work for the safety of our children and the elderly must be trained and employed. Training and hiring 200,000 employees is not free. But it is possible if we set priorities and opt out of major tax cuts. Remember what happens if you don't invest in welfare: the children's groups in preschool are getting bigger. Home care staff will have to run even faster and stress even more. The teachers in the children's school are getting fewer. Last autumn, the Moderates announced that they want to reduce the tax by over 30 billion. Ulf Kristersson has now announced that the Moderates also want to lower taxes for those who have really high incomes. As a result, the monthly earner would receive $1,000 more in the account each month. Elisabeth Svantesson! Why is cutting taxes more important to the Moderates than investing in welfare?
i-264f0a754519b8b2-118	Mr President, I would like to I'm proud that we Moderates always want to make it more profitable to work. I am proud of the suggestion that the hardworking single parent can keep $500 more in his wallet each month. We do this because we know that it is right and because we know that it leads to more jobs but also because it is fair and that it will pay off to make an effort. We do not put welfare against tax cuts. We have shown that it is possible to do both. What you have shown, on the other hand, is that, despite increased taxes, well-being has been cracking in many places. It's about priorities. We will show in the budget that we are presenting at Parliament's table that we are giving priority to what is right. It also means giving priority away. For example, it may be building subsidies that go into the pockets of the developers or inefficient labour market policies. A moderate government will always put the core of welfare at the centre. Everyone should know that you can get good service and feel safe with the police working. This is our task. Mr President, I would like to Now Magdalena Andersson again wants to confuse the cards and not really take responsibility for the situation that has arisen during these years. However, one should know that a moderate-led government will invest in welfare, just as we have done in every budget during this term of office. We've invested as much as the government. In addition, going to work will pay considerably better.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-122	Mr President, I would like to When you listen to Elisabeth Svantesson it sounds like she thinks it's free to lower the tax, that it costs nothing. Of course, that is not the case. We also have eight years with an alliance government as a fact that it cannot be done. Over eight years with the moderate-led government, the number of employees in the welfare sector, i.e. municipal-funded employment, per thousand inhabitants actually decreased more than in the 1990s budget adjustment. This was despite the fact that 260 of the country's 290 municipalities had to increase the municipal tax because they did not receive enough support from the government. That was the result of eight years of alliance politics. Now, after four years with this government, however, we see that the number of employees per thousand inhabitants has risen again. We've employed more than 100,000 more people working in welfare. That's what happens when you give priority to welfare. This is about the choice: reduced taxes or welfare with which we can all be safe.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-125	Mr President, I would like to Magdalena Andersson and some other Social Democrats here in the hall seem to think that everything in Sweden is working pretty well right now. But when I meet voters, I face something else. I can only agree: it is not free to lower the tax. It discovers every person who's working. They have noticed that when Magdalena Andersson has raised the tax for a lot of income earners. It cost them something; with Social Democratic politics you get less left in your wallet. Magdalena Andersson wants to go back again and talk about the years of the alliance. Then I would like to remind you that during the deepest financial crisis since the 1930s, jobs increased by 340 000. There were more policemen in Sweden during that time, and the care queues were considerably shorter.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-128	Mr President, I would like to On 20 March this year, the Government submitted a proposal to the Riksdag to introduce a special tax on private health insurance, a health insurance tax. Usually, this is signed and paid for by employers. My view of this is that it is positive for employers, because they can get their staff back to work more quickly in the event of illness or accident. This is also positive for the employee, as it is possible to get treatment faster. This is also positive for other patients, as this reduces the burden on county health care. So we get a win-win situation. The matter has now been prepared by the Parliament's Tax Committee. Exercise time expired on April 4th. The Moderates, including their alliance colleagues, chose not to vote against. A tax on health care will therefore be introduced. Unfortunately, we Swedish democrats are alone in protesting against this. Member Svantesson! Please explain to me and to all the voters why you think this is sensible and sensible policy!
i-264f0a754519b8b2-131	Mr President, I would like to I do not think it makes sense to increase the tax on such activities. But this is part of the government's budget, and unlike what the Swedish Democrats and the Social Democrats did during the previous parliamentary term, we believe that the budget should be adopted in its entirety. The framework that we have had since the 90s is basically good. However, we do not have any such proposals. I think the proposal is bad. However, I wonder if you think this is the worst thing this government has done. Does Oscar Sjöstedt think that this is the biggest social problem we have to solve right now, or can the Swedish Democrats see any other major social problem?
i-264f0a754519b8b2-133	Madam President, I would like I did not claim that this was the single biggest social problem. However, that is a particularly weak argument. I am absolutely convinced that neither our electors nor yours can be persuaded by this argument. I mean this: if there is a proposal, as it does, if we agree that it is directly harmful and if we can stop the proposal with a very simple push of a button, why on earth do we not? It can hardly be the job of Mr Svantesson to help that other gang, the government, to push through harmful policies. If one has chosen to sit in a minority government, which they have chosen, one can reasonably come to Parliament with well-established proposals that are supported in this House. I can only conclude that the December agreement is very much alive.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-136	Madam President, I would like I note that the regulation of the 1990s existed well before the December agreement. I agree that it was completely harmful. But this is a budget as a whole. This bad proposal is part of a budget. We do not have that proposal in our budget. But it's taken as a whole, and I think that's right. It keeps order in the Swedish economy and creates stability in here. I do not know who will form the government next term of office, but I hope that this framework will be honored, because basically it has served Sweden well, even when it is politics that you do not like.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-137	Madam President, I would like I have previously debated the state budget on several occasions with Ulf Kristersson, who is now the party leader of the Moderates. When I once asked him if the Moderates don't think it's reasonable for the polluter to pay, I got a pretty clear answer. He felt that he was proud to be the guard who always seems the opposite, the guard who stops tax increases. While the Moderates are doing everything in their power to stop increased environmental taxes on, for example, aviation and fossil fuels, business is at the forefront. On 9 April, representatives of Volvo and Scania wrote an article about the importance of the state supporting innovations in order for Sweden to be at the forefront and become fossil-free. They address the importance of climate governance taxes and support for innovation in reducing emissions and meeting the climate target. When the industry talks about what examples they want to scale up in order to make Sweden a permanent world exhibition for fossil-free transport solutions, the Moderates respond with proposals on reduced tax on fossil fuels, tax exemption for aviation and extensive cuts in support Climate change. More and more people are now seeing the extent of the shortcomings in Moderate climate policy. It is not just the Green Party that is tired of Moderate politics. The only environmental policy of the Moderates seems to be to say no to the environment. More and more right-wing editorials are now also criticising the inability and unwillingness of Moderates to grasp the destiny of our time. My question to Elisabeth Svantesson is whether she, too, sees it as her role to be the guard who stops all environmental taxes and support efforts for climate change. It is an important question for all the companies and associations that are now planning to switch to reduce emissions with the support systems that this government has built up. Will Elisabeth Svantesson put away the legs of those who now want to be part of the transition if she can decide?
i-264f0a754519b8b2-141	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. The short answer is no. Of course, good investments and good climate investments are absolutely right and proper to do. Many of the Swedish companies are now also at the forefront to streamline and really take lead in the field of climate change. We think that's a good thing. What we say no to, both Ulf Kristersson and I and the entire moderate party, are ineffective climate initiatives. Now this government has been in office for almost four years. The Economic Institute is clear that seven out of eight of your climate proposals are ineffective. Sometimes you make it sound like if you say no to the Green Party's proposal, you are not an environmentalist. But that is not the case. There is much we can and will do to improve the climate, both in Sweden and through climate investments abroad. But the fact that we do not say yes to all the environmental party's inventions – and there are actually some inventions in both this budget and the former – does not mean that we do not protect the climate and the environment.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-143	Madam President, I would like The environmental policy of the Green Party has quite strong support. The Government's expert authority The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency points out that it is precisely this policy that will end the climate gap, something that there were not enough resources for during the alliance period and with your climate policy. It's great that you say that you will invest properly in the climate and environment, Elisabeth Svantesson. These are fine words, but so far they have also been empty words. There is still a desire to increase fossil subsidies by proposing a reduced tax on fossil fuels and to continue subsidising aviation. Elisabeth Svantesson said in her speech that one must equip Sweden for the future and prioritise what is important. I wonder whether in the moderate budget we will see efforts to prioritise the environment and climate, so that we can meet the climate challenge we all have to respond to now.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-146	Madam President, I would like Let me mention some of the things that the Moderates want to do and do in our budget. We are tripling the funds that the government is spending on international climate investments. We are making a targeted effort to expand charging infrastructure along our roads. I believe that will be essential in the future. We are committed to reducing the emissions of the base industry, while at the same time doubling the government's investment in environmental research. Finally, we want to make it easier to take the train. We're not against trains, we're against trains. That is why we want to expand the railways, and we match every penny that the government puts in, which also means increasing the funding for railway maintenance by 50%.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-147	Madam President, I would like Last Thursday, this year's sale of Mayflowers began. This year they choose to focus on children's access to leisure activities, which are very unevenly distributed. Children's access to leisure activities affects their confidence in their own ability and in society, how they feel that they are being listened to and whether they have any impact in society. If a mother or father is disabled, long - term ill or unemployed, it often means a financially poor situation for the family that obliges children to live in financial vulnerability. This affects their health, their school results and, of course, their access to leisure activities. You can't afford fees or to hang out with your friends for a coffee. Going on vacation is just a dream for a lot of people. This is one of the reasons why we and the Left Party have pushed through the increased ceilings in the unemployment insurance fund, increased flooring and increased maintenance support, removed days in unemployment insurance, increased health insurance benefits and reduced the tax rate for long-term illness. We have also introduced state grants for free holiday activities, free public transport this summer, free medicines and free swimming for six-year-olds. We want to equalize class differences, as opposed to the Moderates, which anytime reinforces them. You reject all these reforms, but you are not content with it. You have a systematic policy that strikes the sick and the unemployed. For example, you are proposing savings of SEK 3 000 per month on the unemployed. You're lowering the sickness allowance. You're lowering the medical allowance. You raise the treasure. Why? How does it improve the conditions and conditions of these children's upbringing? What analysis have you made of the impact of your economic policy on children's growing-up conditions?
i-264f0a754519b8b2-150	Madam President, I would like I understand that it was wrong when Ulla Andersson claimed that we should raise the tax on people. But I hear exactly what she says and I hear her question. I think it is so special in politics sometimes when one's intentions are called into question. I've heard Ulla Andersson before. We entered Parliament at the same time. In every debate since then, I understand that she is distrustful of the Moderates and my intention with the policy that we are pursuing. I mentioned at the press conference earlier when I met journalists that it is worrying that so many children live in households with social benefits. When it comes to children born abroad, there are more in 2017 than in 2014, despite the fact that you have been involved in supporting budgets over the years. It's troubling. My way, my tools and our way forward for those children to have higher margins and a better future is for their parents to get to work. We want to ensure that children born abroad, but also the long-term unemployed, come into preschool earlier and learn the language. We want to give foreign born women who never get into work – it is often mothers – support to learn the language and enter the labour market. That is the way forward. This is where our policies differ. We do not want gaps to increase. But we see that the best way to reduce the gaps is for parents – the mothers and fathers – to have a job to go to. That is also why we will focus precisely on it in the budget that we are presenting in a few weeks' time.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-155	Madam President, I would like Yes, there is a difference in economic policy. You're reinforcing class differences. We're trying to even them out. There's a big, big difference. While we are trying to create a situation for people who have worked so that they get sick where they can feel financial security, you save almost 18 billion, it is well, on the sick and unemployed in your budget. It means something to every family living under such conditions. Every child in those families has a worse financial situation and a worse financial security. It affects their entire lives, all their conditions and their access to leisure activities. Why should the sick and unemployed have worse financial conditions, Elisabeth Svantesson? And how does this affect the children in those families? You won't answer that. They live in enormous financial vulnerability, and you think they should be even worse off. Why? Yes, so you can lower the taxes for those who earn the best. And you actually want to raise the tax rate for the long-term sufferers.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-157	Madam President, I would like What we Moderates and I want is to make sure that the way back from a sick leave is shorter. What we Moderates want is for the path from unemployment into work to be faster. That's why we want to shut down Arbetsförmedlingen, because they're not doing their job. What we want is to ensure that children living in vulnerable environments receive the support they need, but their parents will receive the support they need to get to work. Here is an essential difference. I recommend Ulla Andersson to travel around some of the moderate-led municipalities in Sweden where they work actively with people who have income support and where they shorten the way from income support to work so that these children will get real margins, not low income support. It is a clear moderate policy, and it will also be forward. We will always give priority to what leads to more jobs, both for those with low levels of education and, of course, for those with a high level of education.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-161	Madam President, I would like This is the last budget proposal that will be dealt with by this particular Parliament. This means that on no less than eight occasions we could have put an end to this government's economic policy – yes, actually put an end to this whole government. You from the alliance parties can talk about a wasted boom best you want. You can criticise the government and its damaging reforms in never so loud terms. But the fact is, you haven't lifted a single finger to stop them. If you leave the walkover and release such a government, supported by the Communist Party as well, you cannot reasonably be too surprised by the outcome. You have not lifted a finger to stop them, and I will be careful to remind the voters of that as we enter a new electoral movement. Instead, this government has been able to wage a veritable war against small businesses and private business. It is not just about the harmful proposals themselves. It's the whole rhetoric that's harmful. We have a finance minister who is waving away large tax increases, specifically targeted at small and growing companies, because it only affects those who hang on Stureplan. One of my closest friends is small business. He runs a small trucker. He works far more than the majority in this House does, I can say, and earns far less. He usually says to me something like this: Can no one go to a choice not to do anything at all? Just leave it alone! Don't change anything! It's not because it's very good now, but at least it won't get any worse. It says something about the confidence that we politicians have in small businesses. We have lost all hope that we will make things easier and better, but we hope that we will not make them worse. It is a sub-grade to this government, and it is a sub-grade to that part of the opposition that allows them to be held. Big tax increases on ordinary people's already estimated savings are casually waved away by that it only corresponds to si or so many chip bags. Yeah, but if you put all those chip bags together, there'll be a lot of chips in the end. You can then fill the entire chamber with chips. Madam President, I would like It is not just the actual and concrete measures that matter. The rhetoric also matters. When a very ill-examined proposal on an exit tax, in practice a re-inherited inheritance tax on family entrepreneurs, is presented and the Minister of Finance immediately goes out and speaks cheerfully and positively if it all reacts to the companies. Although she later backed a few steps-- fortunately-- the damage is already done. The entrepreneurs have been worried. When the head of government himself goes out and expresses a positive opinion on the reinstated wealth tax, it damages it. People are worried, and anyone who happened to play with the idea of moving capital from abroad to Sweden will of course not be more inclined to do so. So your rhetoric matters. This whole term of office could have been used to develop public and private welfare and to raise quality standards, so that we politicians can meet citizens' expectations of what their tax money is spent on. Instead, however, the only thing you have succeeded in scaring the lives of private companies and in putting an end to start-ups and investment. For who wants to invest their time and money in such a political climate? Your taxation of private employers who take out health insurance for their employees, for the simple reason that they care about their staff, will lead to fewer such insurance policies, which means that more people will be burdened with county health care. But county health care is already on its knees. Have you carried out any impact assessment of what it means for public health in county councils to introduce such a tax? Madam President, I would like The government's claim that it has taken responsibility for an unsustainable immigration policy is as far from the truth as it can be. The fact that the Alliance's policy in the eight years they were in power was totally disastrous seems to most people today to agree on, possibly excluding the Center Party. But the Social Democrats pushed for exactly the same irresponsible and absurdly naive policy and did not lift a finger to change it once you came to power. Last year, 2017, 135 000 residence permits were issued – 135 000. The vast majority were distributed to asylum and family migrants. These are not sustainable levels. This is not taking responsibility. This figure should not just be down to zero – it is not enough. It should be negative, that is to say: we must have a complete stop to asylum, and we must put in place an effective return policy. The majority of the unemployed now consist of foreign born, and the trend is increasing. So we would have had more than halved unemployment if you had not pursued this senseless policy. And the other side, we really don't know anything about. How you are going to put together a policy in this area is for me and, I suppose, for all the other voters one big mystery. Is it a stop to asylum, or is it the 30 million new arrivals of the Center Party? No one knows. Madam President, I would like I think it says something about the state of Swedish politics today that the main vision of the largest opposition party, the Moderates, is that we should literally work ourselves to death. Just like his predecessor Fredrik Reinfeldt, the moderate leader Ulf Kristersson, has stated that we should work until at least 75 years of age. Minister for Social Security Annika Strandhäll spoke in positive terms when we became 10 million inhabitants of this country. Strong immigration, which has led to a greater population growth than in the rest of Europe, was important in securing welfare and pensions. A year later, it sounded different. The government, together with the alliance parties, now wants to force people to work longer and longer. I think you miss a lot of things here, but above all one: People are different. There are 70-year-olds who are just as industrious, and there are 55-year-olds who are worn out by their jobs. What should be our job as politicians is to give the right tools to citizens to plan for their pension and to encourage and provide incentives to those who can and want to remain in the labour market for a couple of years. It is therefore about flexibility and voluntary rather than whipping and coercion, for example, giving older tax relief if they remain in the labour market for a couple of years, giving them the legal right to reduce working hours and work part-time, and making it cheaper for companies to retain or employ older workers. With our proposal on the right to full-time employment in public employment, employees, who are very often women in health and social care professions, will be relieved and hopefully not as worn out as they are today. With our proposal on apprenticeships, older workers in the construction sector, for example, can remain in the labour market as mentors to the younger workforce but perhaps avoid the most heaviest lifts. There are a lot of things you can work with in this, and the issue of increased retirement age we will be running in the election movement. You should be aware of that.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-180	Madam President, I would like That the Swedish Democrats want to cooperate with the Moderates is well known to most except possibly the Moderates. Oscar Sjöstedt has even launched a platform for cooperation with the bourgeois parties. It proposes the abolition of investment in rental rights with reasonable rents but also the reduction of taxes on high-income earners, the abolition of military tax and the reintroduction of job tax deductions for high-income earners. However, the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates have more common denominators than that. Oscar Sjöstedt has said that he is prepared to discuss market rents, which the Moderates want and which would lead to significantly increased rents for ordinary people. The Swedish Democrats want to make it easier for employers to freely dismiss employees by introducing more exceptions in the order rules. Here, too, there is a great deal of agreement with the Moderates, even if they want to go further than you do and in practice undermine employment protection entirely. Now we can read in the paper that the party leadership of the Swedish Democrats is preparing a list of demands for future negotiations with the Moderates. In view of this, I have a few questions. Firstly, when will the voters see this list? Secondly, will there be a requirement for a reduction in job security on that list? Thirdly, are the Swedish Democrats in a government negotiation ready to go further and dismantle employment security in the way that the Moderates want?
i-264f0a754519b8b2-183	Madam President, I would like I'll try to answer all the questions. The secret list, which has been prepared for a long time, is available on our website, www.sd.se, under the heading There, the Minister of Finance and anyone interested can go in and see. That's how secret it was. As far as labour law is concerned, we are right to propose an increased number of exemptions for the smallest companies with up to ten employees, that is to say, that five people can be excluded instead of two. We think it's necessary. It is simply a matter of protecting small businesses and making it a little easier for them. This is not as unproblematic as the Minister for Finance wants to make it sound, but there is another side to that coin. The rights and opportunities of small entrepreneurs must be balanced with those of employees. But it is quite rightly understood as the Minister for Finance says. With regard to the debate article that I wrote a while ago, I think we all agree that we have a somewhat half-crazy parliamentary situation in this parliamentary term, and there is really nothing to suggest that this situation would change to any significant extent for the next parliamentary term. Then I think that everyone has a responsibility to try to find openings to get rid of the locks that have existed, and this was my way of trying to say that we can consider compromising on these things. After all, no party will have its own majority, and then it will have to negotiate and compromise with others. I do not think this is particularly remarkable, but rather a rather responsible approach. For example, the things I outlined in the debate article, we would be prepared to discuss mainly with the alliance parties, but by all means also with the Social Democrats.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-188	Madam President, I would like That the Swedish Democrats are prepared to change their position we have seen a great deal of during this term of office. SD members have testified that there are venture capitalists running in the corridors of the Swedish Democrats' Party Office. How it has come out in practical politics we have seen in this House. The Swedish democrats went to elections to abolish the profit hunt in school, but then they changed their mind and now think it is important to safeguard the right of venture capitalists to earn money in school. There has also been a change of opinion with regard to the requirements for collective agreements in contracts. Here is another view. Oscar Sjöstedt now says that we need to balance the conditions for entrepreneurs and employers. It is clear that the Swedish Democrats are not on the workers' side in Swedish working life here. It is good to hear it clearly from Oscar Sjöstedt. Should I interpret this list as requiring the Swedish Democrats to get through their entire election platform to cooperate with the Moderates?
i-264f0a754519b8b2-191	Madam President, I would like Yes, the starting point for any future negotiations is our election platform. That's correct. As far as changing the position is concerned, I would like to say that if no party has its own majority, it must compromise, and then it does so with other parties in order to seek a majority. It's nothing weird. So do the Social Democrats. After all, you have two cooperation parties, and I suppose they will at least get some of their policies through. That's how it has to be done. You can't just lock up the situation and say a: V i should have through 100% of our policy, and we're not going to change our mind on any issue. If everyone does that, it will be quite difficult to rule the country. It is simply a matter of showing a willingness to compromise. I don't know which venture capitalists the Minister of Finance is talking about. I have not had meetings with any venture capitalists; it is possible that there are others who have.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-195	Madam President, I would like One of the major failures of this term of office is the dualisation of the labour market, where more and more people are standing further and further away from a job. According to Arbetsförmedlingen, 271,000 people are in a vulnerable position in the labour market, and the exclusion they experience often goes on year after year. This applies to some native born but not least foreign born – people who want and need to get a foothold into the labour market, into a working community and get the chance to contribute as well as an opportunity to support themselves. The government has made choices here that have not solved the problem. It is true that some efforts have been made in the field of education. Too little has been done there. In addition, efforts have been made to expand places in labour market policy programmes without success. However, it has consistently refused to lower the thresholds into the labour market by lowering requirements or reducing entry wages slightly during the time you learn the job at work. The expert advice is clear. Professor Lars Calmfors, John Hassler and the Financial Policy Council say that we need to take down the sky-high Swedish thresholds and that we need to find more jobs with lower qualifications. In their budget motion, the Swedish Democrats state that there are mainly two proposals to get things right with newcomers who do not come to work. One is more education, and the other is lower thresholds. You reject both of these solutions. You say that we cannot expect these people to be able to contribute to the Swedish skilled labour market by means of training. As far as thresholds are concerned, you write that, in the case of reduced thresholds, the Swedish Democrats are strongly opposed to them. At the same time, however, you are putting many places into labour market policy programmes. Which experts do you support with this policy?
i-264f0a754519b8b2-201	Madam President, I would like This is very interesting, and this is and will be a major task for the rest of this term of office and the next term of office. We need to do several things. First of all, we need to set up some sort of system of apprenticeships, which is very much aimed, as we have proposed, at all those who do not have a high school degree. True, there is a discrepancy between native and foreign born, but if you replace and look at those who have upper secondary school degrees and those who do not have a degree, the big discrepancy is there. Such a system must be in place, and it can possibly be seen as lower thresholds. Secondly, there is the lack of functioning of the Public Employment Service as a whole. I think that the Public Employment Service should be closed down as it stands today, instead of opening up to more actors. A drastic reform was carried out in Australia. This reform was evaluated and it turned out that the groups furthest from the labour market had benefited most from the reform. In fact, there is parliamentary support in this House for such a thing, and we should be able to act. I strongly urge Jakob Forssmed and his colleagues to do this, and it must be done together. Without us, there is no support for that reform. Thirdly, I believe that small businesses are the key. Reducing employers' contributions is of the utmost importance, especially for the smallest companies. It will stimulate employment, and it will solve the problems a little bit along the way – as Mr Forssmed rightly points out.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-206	Madam President, I would like This is Sweden's major challenge in the labour market area, and I think it is clear that the Swedish Democrats have no policy for this. It rejects training measures and rejects the lowering of thresholds. Now, the honourable Member himself says that it welcomes the lowering of thresholds, but in the budget motion, which the party has gone forward with in the Swedish Parliament, and which the party wants support for, it says that, in terms of reduced thresholds, the Swedish Democrats are strongly opposed to them. Do you see the problem? Is it taken seriously? Where is politics? It is not enough to close the Employment Service unless there is otherwise a wide range of measures to tackle the problem. Ensure that people have a chance to contribute, and ensure that they have the chance to participate in a working community. If we do not do this, we will not be able to meet the integration challenges facing Sweden either.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-209	Madam President, I would like I am convinced that Mr Forssmed cannot have read our entire budget. The things I am describing here are definitely included in the budget exercise we are talking about, i.e. real apprenticeship jobs so that it is possible to capture the very ones who do not have a high school degree. That's the group that's lagging behind. Domestic and foreign born do not matter – they are the same measures. That is the group that needs to be raised. I fully agree that this cannot be a case of individual reforms; it is a collective package of measures. However, I find it difficult to sum up the whole labour market policy in one minute. Let me give another example. I am talking about reducing employers' contributions for small businesses, reforming Employment Services and real apprenticeships. Of course, we're going to restore the RUT deduction and we'd be happy to expand it a little bit. The RUT deduction has created many jobs, and it is forecasted to grow even more. It is an example of such a measure that, taken together, will enable us to remedy the situation.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-212	Madam President, I would like Last time I stood in this speaker's chair, I was proud to tell you that the government has presented the largest environmental budget ever in Sweden's history. This term of office that the Green Party has been involved in the government has taken considerable steps to reach the climate targets. Last autumn we presented major investments in the modern, green construction of society. We set aside money to get the plastic out of the ocean and clean up old wrecks that release environmental waste. We invested heavily in biogas, solar cells and charging poles throughout Sweden, and we invested for a sustainable industry in the long term. I am just as proud now that I can tell you that the budget we are presenting today contains even more investments in the environment and climate. It is a budget that gives hope and confidence in the future at a time when we are facing major challenges. Because we have to act now. The climate can't wait. We are now making sure to increase support for biogas production. We offer holidaymakers an electric motor premium for the boat, and we make sure that even more people can decorate their roofs with solar cells. We enable people to be climate-smart in an easy way and to take the joint responsibility necessary for our planet to feel good. In this way, we will also start with the next term of office with a high level of ambition for our country's climate and environmental work. In this way we can achieve our goal of a fossil-free Sweden, and Sweden can continue to be the forerunner in showing the world that it can actually be changed. Madam President, I would like It is not only the planet that should feel good, but also the people who live on it. While we are investing in the green transition and a fossil-free future, we are expanding the welfare of the whole country. Sweden is doing well. The country has a strong economy and unemployment is falling steadily. There are many who want it to appear in a different way, which by painting reality in dark shades puts groups against each other and strain feelings of fear and insecurity. Of course there are great challenges. This shows not least the efforts the government is making to strengthen welfare and school and cope with the climate crisis. But we in the Green Party do not believe that fear helps us to solve the societal challenges, but we take on board the hope and the faith in the future that exists in our country. We ensure that municipalities receive more resources to increase housing construction, and we strengthen security for the elderly, including through safe care in the right place, and work to get more staff into care. Our hope and our faith in the future lies with our future generations. It is important that every young person is given the tools to continue to be a part of the important work of caring for our society and our planet. Our children and young people must feel good and have a meaningful life and leisure time. That's why the government spends 170 million dollars on young people in the budget. More young people will come to work and have the opportunity to work in the summer, recreation centres will also be open during the summer holidays and more young people will be able to engage in culture and sports in their leisure time. These are things that give meaning and make us feel good. Sweden has in recent years received a large number of people who have been on the run, and now we are ensuring that the new inhabitants have the opportunity to learn the language and get education and jobs. We are now also increasing support for those municipalities that allow unaccompanied minors over the age of 18 and are waiting for asylum decisions to remain so that they do not have to be torn up from the life they have begun. It benefits both the individual and society at large. Madam President, I would like Sweden has a feminist government that over the last four years has driven through numerous feminist policies. But this autumn's powerful metoo call, where brave women around the world have witnessed widespread abuse, shows that we need to work even harder for an equal society where everyone, regardless of gender, should feel safe. In this budget, we therefore invest more than SEK 1 00 million in preventive and competence-enhancing work related to metoo and men's violence against women. There are a number of measures in place, such as increased resources for women's shelters, police investigations and social services. Students will gain more sex and cohabitation knowledge at school, and greater demands are placed on a working life free from sexual harassment. That's what I call a feminist budget worth the name! Madam President, I would like Four years ago, we changed the direction of politics. We have come a long way and made major reforms to achieve the climate goals before it is too late. We have worked for an equal school and turned the school results around. All we have to do now is continue on the same track. We need to take major, determined steps towards a fossil-free future so that we can reach the climate targets before it is too late. The climate can't wait. We have to act now.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-226	Madam President, I would like After three years – three and a half years, reasonably – with an environmentalist holder of the position as Minister of Housing, construction in Sweden is reduced. It is a trend break – an ominous one. Since the alliance years and the work carried out then, not least by Stefan Attefall and the Christian Democrats at the ministry and at the department, the construction in Sweden has increased quite substantially. This is very gratifying. But as gratifying as the increase has been, it is ominous that we are now seeing a clear reduction for this year. It is a clear trend break, which is worrying, and it is one of the signs that leads me to the conclusion that the top of this boom is probably behind us as soon as possible. Those who ask questions similar to this to Minister of Housing Peter Eriksson have, I hear, likened him to Baghdad Bob. He does not really want to be aware of these obvious setbacks, and perhaps the strategy is simply not to talk about the reduction of construction before the elections. I hope and believe that Janine Alm Ericson looks more soberly at the issue and is as concerned as I am by the signs that the Swedish housing market is going down and construction is falling. We are still in a situation where Swedish housing construction has to keep at a high pace. Now comes ominous signs of a trend break. How does Janine Alm Ericson view this, and how will we meet this in order to get a better functioning Swedish housing market?
i-264f0a754519b8b2-230	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Emil Källström is raising this particular issue, because, as he said in his question, housing construction is extremely important for Sweden's development. It is very important that people have a place to live so that they can take the jobs where they are. We have seen many different figures regarding the development of the housing market in recent years. There may be a declining trend in construction. It's troubling. We need a lot more housing in order for people to live where the jobs are. We are now spending more on investments to build more homes. The investment support is also aimed at small and climate-smart housing so that we can get more of that kind. So far, there are a lot of residential apartments, which people with very good finances have been able to take. A shift there is also important for us to achieve. Housing policy is one of those areas where the government wants cross-block agreements precisely because it is important. It is just as important as energy supply and defence, on which we have also agreed well during this parliamentary term. In the area of housing policy, we did not come all the way because the alliance representatives chose to leave that negotiation. My question to Emil Källström is, of course, what you want to do. We have investments. We have an expansive housing policy. We have a 20-point program that the government is following. But what does the Center Party want to do to get to the folding building act if it exists?
i-264f0a754519b8b2-235	Madam President, I would like How are we going to get to the declining trend, if it exists? I'll let you know it's there. We are talking about a real problem here. Swedish construction is declining right now, and it is very ominous. It is clear that political action is needed here. I sat in the negotiations that broke down during the term of office. The goal was a new Swedish housing policy, but it was clear that there was no political breeding ground to take the strong hold needed for a better functioning housing market in the long term. With regard to the question of what we want, it is very clear: we want much simpler and fewer rules, which means that we get cheaper construction and more construction. We want greater mobility in the housing market, which means that it is easier to sublet and that we can make better use of the system. We must also have more reasonable tax rules in the long term. Here we must dare to grasp, for example, interest rebates. That's what it takes. The government's subsidies do not lead anywhere, and now Swedish construction is folding downwards.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-239	Madam President, I would like Yes, the interest rebates are something that we have in common. We, too, in the Green Party, see that we need to have a reduction in interest rebates – also in order to cope with, among other things, the large household debt, which is one of our major problems. On the other hand, we do not believe in reduced beach protection, which is an example of what the Center Party is pushing for increased construction. We do not believe that this will lead to much more housing of the kind that we lack. Nor do we believe that raising rents for people who cannot afford it would solve the housing shortage. Then there's a lot to do. The government is following the 20-point programme that was developed. We have also reviewed the existing tax rules. With this, I hope that we can continue to have a good dialogue on housing policy, because it is an important area for Swedish development.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-242	Madam President, I would like Now the Green Party's last economic bill is being presented. It is a good thing that it is the last, because we have pursued a tax search on what we want to see more of, on virtues such as work, savings, progress and generosity. Higher tax on working for everyone over 65, higher tax on saving for their pension, higher tax on giving to the needy. What did the government do for the money? Well, public commitment has been built up with a series of misguided reforms and, at the same time, passively faced with the problems of health care, jobs and security. But I hope you've had fun! It is clear that once the Red-Green Government has fiscal and cyclical resources, they will burn in their pockets. It might be hoped that the Green Party, with its Minister for Consumer Affairs, would have introduced an open buy-in for reforms, a cooling-off week for some of these reforms. It would probably be necessary when prioritising free admission to state museums in Stockholm, while people are becoming increasingly difficult to enter a retirement home, when prioritising free genealogy while keeping small fleeing children from their parents, when you spend billions on building subsidies that the construction companies do not even want, when we do not have a society with enough police to build security and when prioritising lower prices on nature guidance as crown deer reconnaissance while the Care Guide refers older people to longer waiting times in the emergency room, where they can look for doctors. My question to Janine Alm Ericson is: Which of these reforms would be most appropriate to return?
i-264f0a754519b8b2-246	Madam President, I would like If it is our last budget, then I suppose it remains to be seen. It is the voters' choices that apply. Of course, I do not agree with Jakob Forssmed that we should have a term of office full of misguided reforms. We have also invested a great deal of resources in those areas that the Christian Democrats think are important. We have put welfare billions, invested heavily in the police and made it considerably easier for the elderly to get a place in, for example, a nursing home. I do not see how reduced tax, which seems to be the starting point for criticism, would lead to more places in retirement homes or better care. On the contrary – tax cuts cannot be made for free. It is also clear from Jakob Forssmed's question that culture is not high on the Christian Democrats' priority list. We believe, however, that culture is important in order to have a society where people can grow and where you can feel good, not only physically but also mentally. This budget and the efforts we have made throughout this term of office on both welfare and climate, but also at school are those of which I am very proud. Then there is much more to be done. Sweden is certainly not without problems, and I hope that we will have to come back to and continue to deal with this.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-250	Madam President, I would like I am not criticising reduced taxes but raising taxes on things that I think we need to see more of in society. The problem is not that you invest resources in health care, even if you fail when the care queues double, or that you invest in the police, even if we now see fewer police officers with your policy, but that you make all the efforts I have pointed out instead of tackling the problems we actually see. I understand that it is difficult to choose which of these reforms you want to withdraw, but I have a suggestion: free bus cards for all secondary school students on summer holidays. When we know that children and young people need to move more and that one in seven high school students do not move enough, the government wants to pay out SEK 350 million to stop cycling and walking and instead take the bus to its activities on summer holidays. How could it go so wrong?
i-264f0a754519b8b2-252	Madam President, I would like It has different starting points for its economic policy – it is quite clear. We want to promote public transport. You start when you're a kid, you also get better at it when you're an adult. I know that Jakob Forssmed knows that we need to have a traffic transfer from car to train and public transport, for example. This is part of it. Not all children live close enough to walk and ride. Many live in very dangerous traffic environments, where I personally as a mother would rather put my children on the bus than let them ride in traffic. Having said that, there are, of course, different priorities to be set, and I hope, as I said, that they will be able to come back to in the autumn budget, where we can see more of the efforts on the care of people's bodily and, with the help of culture, soul development.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-255	Madam President, I would like We are debating today the last budget that this government is presenting to this House during this parliamentary term. For Sweden's sake, let us keep a thumb because it is also the last budget put forward by the Green Party and the Social Democrats with the support of the Left Party for a long time. The parties I mentioned would feel good to rest up and train a little on political development in opposition in the coming years. This budget day is also a time for reflection and evaluation of the past years. The questions you have to ask yourself are: Is Sweden fundamentally stronger today than four years ago? Are we better equipped for the future today than four years ago? And is the basic functioning of the economy stronger today than four years ago? I can say at an early stage that the government's time in power and Magdalena Andersson's time at the Ministry of Finance will not be remembered as a time when there was a great deal of grip that we can feel grateful for for for a long time, which, however, can be said both about Social Democratic governments in the mid-1990s and above all about the Alliance's first time in power. Both in the 1990s and early 2000s, structural measures were taken to improve the long-term functioning of the Swedish economy. This has not happened in recent years. We have not seen any major structural reforms. The labour market which for a long time has had too high thresholds, not least for those who find it difficult to enter because of their recent arrivals or because of a history of illness or unemployment or because they are young and have insufficient upper secondary school qualifications, remains too much. Hundreds of thousands of people don't get into real jobs on top of a historic boom. We have a housing market that has worked badly for a long time. During years and decades we have seen housing shortages and long queues for housing in the big cities and their vicinity. In recent years, this has stuck, while more and more parts of the country see the same problem. Soon every central town in our 290 municipalities has the same problem. There are waiting times to get the first apartment. It is difficult to enter the housing market if you do not have contacts or know which roads you can take alongside the municipal housing queues. With regard to a fourth area where we need to take a greater structural approach, the need for a future major investment in Swedish infrastructure, we can also note that for many years this is a lost year. Of course, the Alliance's contribution to the Swedish infrastructure budget has continued, and the government has actually, to be honest, increased its investment in Swedish infrastructure. That's good, because it's necessary. But when it comes to the real structural concepts and the future project that the Alliance initiated, what is now called Sweden's negotiation, with new main courses, we can note that Sweden stands and rammers. Over the last four years, the government has done many things, but it has not put its foot down either way in this one of Sweden's real future issues. Regardless of what you think in substance, there is an intrinsic value in clarity and that we are making progress with the major efforts needed in Swedish infrastructure. As I mentioned earlier in the debate, the government's main electoral promise when it took office was to reach Europe's and the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. This was already a strange goal at the outset. It's more reasonable to measure other things. But now it was this goal the government set for itself. It is also obvious that there was never a plan to get there. The first thing that was done in the first budgets that the government put forward and got through was to increase taxes on everything that moves, especially on the jobs of young people and on the employers' contributions of small businesses. It is as clear as it can be, at least before it is time for Magdalena Andersson to write his memoirs. But the message we received today from the Minister for Finance is clearly that even the government does not stand up for the goal it went to elections on and promised the Swedish people. This is also evident in the government's own forecasts. In this last budget of this term of office, the government is forced to revise its own unemployment figures. The tax increases we have seen are historic. It has been a long time since a government raised taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship to the extent that this government has done. Total tax increases of around 60 billion, of which just over half in jobs and entrepreneurship, speak clearly. In fact, future governments must back down here and ensure that, not least, job creators are given more reasonable opportunities to operate and develop. We can note that after the election day, if the voters so wish, there is potential for a much stronger and more united government alternative, which addresses some of Sweden's major challenges. The Alliance has already, in good time before the elections, presented common ways into the labour market for those who do not come in today and a common picture of how to reform the Employment Service, which today does not deliver. We have a common understanding of the housing market and the labour market, and also of the need to restore the rule of law, police and defence. This is where we pushed the government in front of us during our term of office. Some of the additions we have fortunately seen with regard to the rule of law and defence would not have been as great if it were not because of an alliance that in negotiations with the government made sure that we got the initial bids we received from the Ministry of Finance. But here we do not need a government that is reluctantly pushed forward, but a government that actually sits in the driver's seat and ensures that we re-establish some of the absolute core tasks of the state. It is important to point out that although the government has historically increased the tax on everything that moves, it has failed to deliver on some of the real core tasks of the state. Police density is decreasing, and care queues are increasing. As far as LSS is concerned, we hear too many testimonies about how that part of the Swedish Welfare Society is not delivering because of government policy. Despite large tax increases, the core of welfare and the core tasks of the state are not delivered. This is bad. Sweden deserves better. The Center Party stands for the new leadership that our country needs. Our analysis is that despite the last three years, Sweden has a fantastic starting point. We're in a strong position. We have excellent Swedish companies, both large and small, and we can address the challenges of globalisation, automation, digitalisation, artificial intelligence, sharing economy and much more. These are challenges that we can do great things out of if we take the grip that the Swedish labour market and economy need. We will address the structural needs that I have talked about: the labour market and the housing market. These are difficult and heavy things that we need to reform. We shall not be afraid of that task. The combination of this and the other that we will deliver, namely concrete proposals that can be implemented here and now, already in the first budget of a future alliance government, is a good combination. We have already presented this weekend, among other things, our green deduction, where we are renouncing and clearing in the government's flora of subsidies that at best lead to green conversion but where there is great uncertainty about when money is paid out and in what way. Instead, we propose that we draw lessons from ROT and RUT deductions and transfer them to the green sector through what we call a green deduction. We put an end to the threat to rural areas, property rights and forestry, which today hinders investments in the multi-billion-dollar class, because nobody knows how to use the Swedish and northern forest raw materials. This uncertainty will end after the elections. Instead, we are demanding new technological and environmental leaps. We're going to use resources to counter young people's mental ill health. It is one of our greatest societal challenges. Our most important promise is to address Sweden's future issues. We stand for a new leadership that brings Sweden forward.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-275	Madam President, I would like Sweden is doing well. We are expanding the welfare of the whole country. More people get jobs. We are taking new steps towards a fossil-free Sweden. We're speeding up the establishment of new arrivals. Now we can invest in green conversion and a Sweden that stays together. That is our plan, and we show it in our budget. Reducing emissions from aviation is an important step in reducing emissions in the transport sector. The airline tax came into force recently. But there are many other bodies where we show that we are serious about reducing emissions throughout society. Against this is the Center Party, which claims to be a green party but has made it its most important question of choice to subsidise aviation. This is such an important issue for the Center Party that it has threatened with censure on ministers and said that this is the first tax to be torn up if the opportunity is given. Investing in renewable fuels, which is the response of the Center Party, is something that we both want. So it is really only that flights should pay for their climate costs that seems to be the problem of the Center Party. But most of the Centre Party's voters are in favour of a flight tax, reasonably because they think that aviation should also bear its environmental costs. It is sad that the Center Party has landed in that position, and I hope that Emil Källström and his party dare to reconsider here. But there are other interesting areas to talk about in tax policy. I was going to ask Emil Källström about another tax surcharge. Now we are not putting any new proposals into this budget, but we in the Green Party have recently presented a proposal to tax meat in which antibiotics have been given preventively to healthy animals. After all, the World Health Organization classifies antibiotic resistance as the most serious threat to humanity. At the same time, more antibiotics in the world are prescribed for healthy animals than for sick people. I was simply going to ask Emil Källström if the Center Party is prepared to support such an economic instrument in this matter.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-281	Madam President, I would like This spring, the Green Party has made a veritable offensive in presenting new proposals that have apparently not been implemented during their more than three years of government. Some weeks have soon been said on a daily basis, proposals that have not been reconciled with the Social Democrats but will be put to the elections. That's good. That's how you get to work sometimes. With regard to the proposal for a tax on ugly meat, which the Green Party is talking about here, I have not yet heard or read that anyone who knows these questions believes that this is in any way feasible. There is a great risk in this. The risk is that there are those who think this sounds pretty good and think that in this way we can benefit healthy Swedish meat at the expense of bad foreign. However, it is also important for political representatives to make proposals that can actually be implemented. Until proven otherwise, I think it is wiser to ensure that the farmers who produce the healthy Swedish meat end up being Europe's highly taxed and hardest regulated farmers. In fact, the Green Party has often been most committed to presenting new charges in the form of mileage taxes and new regulations for how Swedish farmers can operate. We want instruments that benefit good and healthy Swedish food, but they must be feasible. We can start by removing the very own Swedish devices that have led Sweden's farmers to be Europe's most heavily taxed and most heavily regulated.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-285	Madam President, I would like This proposal has been worked on more than that. Of course, there will have to be more investigation, but there are also ways of introducing a late tax, including the electronic tax and the chemical tax, which are introduced. It could be a way forward. There are those who are in favour of the proposal, such as the LRF, which the Center Party usually has a lot to do with. Speaking of this by aligning their proposals with other parties, I would like to say that one may not do so to the same extent when entering an electoral movement. Then it is interesting to hear that the Center Party has therefore sued all its election proposals with the Moderates, perhaps even the PV proposal, although Elisabeth Svantesson did not mention it in her reply about what the Moderates want to do. Emil Källström beat himself in the last shift for the chest for the low emissions during the alliance government. I wonder if Emil Källström can give examples of what offensive things he was referring to there.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-289	Madam President, I would like I do not know if I really understood the question, but I take it as an invitation to talk about the Center Party's environmental policy, which I will also do. What we are doing now is putting forward proposals aimed at returning to what was in force during the alliance period, namely sound economic development, coupled with reduced emissions. We are looking at the increase in Swedish emissions in recent years with great concern. We need to move from talk to results. This week we have presented the idea of a green deduction, which means, among other things, that more will be able to set up electricity poles and solar panels. We have proposals to convert the Swedish car fleet and the truck fleet into sustainable fuels. Let me also answer the initial question, with which I did not quite have the time before: we also have proposals for changing flights in a green way, because that is what is needed. Global aviation will increase as Asia continues to develop. Our task is to review how we can make this more sustainable. Green fuels are needed and efforts are needed. We're going to take that hold.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-293	Madam President, I would like Emil Källström is happy to talk about new leadership and structural reforms, but he does not like to speak clearly, so I was going to help him with that. I'm a left-winger, so I want to help my fellow human beings. What you, Emil Källström, mean by structural reforms is really that you want to raise people's rents – you want market rents – lower people's wages and tear up LAS. In addition, the Center Party wants to save huge sums of money on the sick and unemployed, even more than the Moderates want. I was also going to help you explain to citizens why you want to save so much on health care, school and care in your budget option, Emil Källström. The vast majority of people I meet, such as a host of nurses with whom I practice, feel that there is too little resources in the care of the elderly. Stress is needed, and working conditions are not good enough. When I practice in health care, they say: We get on our knees – we need to be more. I have not heard anyone say that less resources are needed. Most people also think that welfare employees need better working conditions and even higher wages, so why do you save so much money on health care, school and care, Emil Källström? You cut government subsidies by approximately SEK 9 billion and also reduce tax revenues by approximately SEK 3 billion in the local government sector. In total, you are reducing the municipal sector by approximately SEK 12 billion this year. This corresponds to the salaries of 25 000 teachers or 30 000 nurses. It is people who are really needed – we need more employees in welfare, not fewer. Moreover, many are forced to stress so much in welfare jobs that they get sick. We need more resources, not less, so why are you making such huge savings in your budget option, Emil Källström?
i-264f0a754519b8b2-298	Madam President, I would like Such a rapsody of conscious misunderstandings I have probably not heard since the last time Ulla Andersson and I had a different line with each other. What I mean when I talk about structural reforms is social change, which means that the people who today do not enter the labour market but are forced to rely on low contributions get their first job and can make a wage career. Regardless of the model and whatever tools are used for people to move from support to a way into work, it is a matter of more or less doubling disposable income overnight. I think that's good. I think it's good for families with children and young people, not least for children of new arrivals who, when they go to school themselves, see Mom and Dad going to work rather than staying at home. I think it is a warm and people-friendly policy. I see a housing market where people don't get into their first real home. Not least the rental market has completely broken down, not only in Stockholm. In increasingly large parts of the Swedish housing market, the world is upside down. If you want a place to live quickly, you can buy it. If you have time to wait for years or decades, you can aim for a tenancy. It must be reformed. We need to reform the housing market, not least in order to save rental rights as a form of housing. Finally, the question was why I reduce so much on a lot of different activities; I don't have time to mention all of them. What we're doing is prioritising. We prioritise the general state grants of municipalities and county councils, which you can use yourself. It is true that we are cutting back on a number of Ulla Andersson's specially-destined contributions that we see leads to inefficiency. Ulla Andersson wants to raise taxes on everything that moves. What is your dream level for the tax burden, Ulla Andersson? How much should the Swedish people and Swedish companies pay in tax when the Left Party gets its way through?
i-264f0a754519b8b2-303	Madam President, I would like It is quite fascinating to listen to Emil Källström. He wants to save the lease by introducing market rents. The fact that housing is folding today is, of course, a matter of building too expensive. People can't afford to live there. Then you want to remove investment aid and introduce market rents, Emil Källström. My question is about the savings in welfare. You're cutting welfare by 9 billion in state subsidies. In addition, an additional EUR 3 billion in reduced tax revenues, i.e. a total of EUR 12 billion. That is equivalent to 30 000 nurses' salaries. It's huge savings, Emil Källström. Do you not realize the enormous consequences that would have? You have too tough working conditions today; you get on your knees. Then you come and say: Hello there – we want to save even more on you than has been done so far! We need more resources for welfare, not less. But, of course, you always prioritise reduced taxes over welfare, over the financial security of the sick and the unemployed and over housing.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-306	Madam President, I would like I note that I did not get an answer to the question of how high the tax burden actually is when the Left Party gets its increases on everything that moves – people and companies. Perhaps that figure exists but is too terrifying to talk about, and if that is the case, I understand why Ulla Andersson is sneaking with the goal of her many tax increases. Let me tell you what I am aiming for in terms of the municipal resources for welfare. During the time of the Alliance, my municipality of Örnsköldsvik received 20 percent more resources from people who worked and paid taxes. This happened for a time with very low inflation and a population growth that was not close to those figures. This is based on a job policy that meant that more people got a job to go to and that more people paid in money for their welfare. That is what I and the Center Party's offer is like: a job policy that leads to more resources for welfare. Ulla Andersson wants to tax everything that moves and distribute money here and now. I want to work long-term.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-309	Madam President, I would like Under the bourgeois government, tax revenues per capita and relative to price development fell by 5 per cent – about SEK 9 000 per person. It is of course of great importance for what conditions the country will have to stay together and for what investments it makes in welfare. During this term of office, the Left Party has taken a major responsibility to ensure that the country can be governed. When we have chosen to negotiate the budget with the government, we have done so in order to increase economic equality and strengthen welfare and joint investment in order to push down unemployment and keep society together. For us, it has been important that the single mother should be able to feel that she has been financially better and that parents should not have to choose between paying the rent and buying glasses or medicine for their children. Therefore, maintenance support has been increased in three instalments, and free medicines for children have been introduced, as well as eyeglass benefits for children and young people. Students should be able to feel financial security, and more from unpaved homes should want to study further. Therefore, the study facility will be increased by SEK 300 per month in August. We've been working to expand the welfare system to envelop new areas. For too many years people have been told that it is only possible to cut back. Therefore, we have invested in young people up to 23 years of age having free dental care. Mammography and cell screening should be free of charge, because no one should have to miss a cancer tumor because the wallet is empty. We have invested in free medical visits for the elderly in outpatient care, and we have achieved the greatest investment in welfare in history through the 10 so-called welfare billions. Childbirth care has been strengthened, and the health care system has been provided with considerable resources. This year there will be 2 billion to improve working conditions in health care. We've been working on redeployment. We've taken a few steps forward. Today, more people are paying government income tax. It evens out income gaps and adds more resources to welfare. The job tax deduction is phased out from SEK 50,000, to the great horror of the bourgeoisie. Long-term sickness has been reduced and the right to deduct trade union contributions has been reintroduced. As a result, millions of wage earners have been taxed less, but above all, a strengthened trade union organisation is made possible. And it is necessary when strong forces – the bourgeoisie and the Swedish democrats together with the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise – move forward in order to reduce the wages of people. In the Swedish model, the income loss principle is central. If you have the misfortune of becoming ill or unemployed, you should not have to change your whole life financially. You should be able to feel financial security. That is why it has been important for us to raise the ceilings of health insurance, as well as the floor and ceilings of unemployment insurance – not least after the large reductions of the citizens. People should not have to insure themselves alongside the common security systems; then the Swedish model will be broken. We would have liked to have seen more increases in the ceilings, but unfortunately we have not got the government with us in it because it has not wanted to finance such reforms. In the negotiations on our amending budget, it has been important for us to allow the metoo to break through. Metoo rolled up and touched us all. Suddenly the experiences we women and girls have lived with became visible throughout our lives. The power of these calls and stories must lead to change. The bodies of girls and women are their very bodies, and no one else should be entitled to – or consider themselves entitled to. There, all parties that stand for the equal value of all people have a responsibility to take. Now 170 million is being added to seven metoo reforms. The money will include improved sex and cohabitation education in schools, a new focus on women's and girls' shelters, training measures for the judiciary, an information campaign on consent legislation, competence development for regional safety representatives and increased resources for the Swedish Work Environment Agency. But much more is needed. There is a need for more secure working conditions, shared parental insurance and full-time entitlement. Women's work must be valued and given the value it should actually have. The pension system needs to be redesigned, and more people need to speak out when women and girls are being violated and subjected to sexual harassment. Madam President, I would like Every young person must be able to have hope and faith in the future. All too often in the political debate, they appear to be problems, especially if they live in vulnerable suburbs. More policemen, harder hands and more batons is what you hear the most. Of course, there may be a need for more and more police officers, but above all, efforts are needed in the areas of work, housing, education and richer leisure time. There, the Left Party's justice emigrators are of great importance. More money is now being added to increased opening hours in leisure centres, to young people's sports and cultural activities and to 10,000 more summer jobs. To be seen, to feel important, to be involved in taking responsibility and to earn your own money is of course of great importance for each of us, not least for young people. Your life should not be allowed to be determined by your parents' background, education, finances or contacts. Madam President, I would like I could stand here for a long time and tell you about all the important reforms that we have achieved during this parliamentary term and how they have affected the lives of many people – for example, driving licence loans and efforts against mental illness among young people. But I won't. The 90 reforms that we have achieved speak clearly. If you want to fight inequality and increase security and trust in society, you do it best with us. Looking at the distribution of income in these reforms, it can be seen that it is above all people with low or medium income who have had an improved economic outcome while those who are the best off have had to pay. That is what left-wing politics should be like. But yes, we would have liked to have done a lot more. Something is wrong, of course, when the main features of bourgeois tax policy remain. Of the EU's 15 core countries, Sweden is now the country whose tax system is the least redistributive between high- and low-income recipients. Capital income is an increasing proportion of the causes of growing income inequality. In 2016, property income amounted to SEK 376 billion – half of these went to the richest per cent. If we were to take it out on each of us adults in the population, it would be $25,000 per person. How resources are allocated and used in a society or in an economy is, of course, of crucial importance to the future of all of us. Are we investing them in education, health care, housing and infrastructure, or are they going to individual consumption or speculation? Therefore, it would have been good to introduce progressive capital taxation or a wealth tax. Equality has an economic and social value in itself, and as long as this is not done, the economic divides will grow. We haven't brought the government here. There is now a choice to make before the elections: either you strengthen welfare and economic equality with us or you go right out. And what about it? Well, with the Centre Party you can make huge savings in welfare – because they save most of all bourgeois parties in the local government sector. In addition, the distribution policy of the Liberals can provide a reverse distribution from the poor to the rich, since it gives the same amount to the 10% which has the highest income that they give to the other 90% of the population. They also give twice as much to men as to women. With the Center and Liberals, you can tear up LAS, raise rents and lower people's wages. In addition, this can be seasoned with savings on the sick and the unemployed. It's a choice to make. For us, the choice is simple: we want to see economic equality, improved welfare, redistribution, joint investment, enhanced job security and improved working conditions. That's how we build a country that stays together. That is what you get with the Left Party – honest left-wing politics, quite simply.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-331	Madam President, I would like I think there were many of us who jumped into our benches when you, Ulla Andersson, were so happy to describe how you have taken the initiative – and got through – that more people are now paying government income tax. You then described it as being about bank managers, but in fact it is about midwives and well-educated people who often work in health care, school and care. You have increased the tax for hundreds of thousands of ordinary Swedes, often people with academic education. This is really remarkable, because Sweden is a country where education pays very badly. When the organisation Saco has made measurements regarding a number of courses and checked if it pays to get educated in Sweden, the measurements have shown that it is not worthwhile to get educated in the majority of the courses that have been viewed. It does not pay to go to universities for three, four or five years and take out student loans. Is this reasonable? Do we want a society where education, diligence and responsibility do not pay off? Of course we don't want to! Ulla Andersson paints this as a picture of gaps and that it would be about her wanting to reduce the gaps in society with this. But the problem is not that we in Sweden have Zla tan Ibrahimović, which earns 200 million a year when he plays in Manchester United? That's not the problem, is it? The problem is that we have people who do not have a job and who are not part of the community of the workplace – people who have small economic margins, who do not enter the labour market and who cannot support themselves. The problem is also that the gap between the person who has a job and the person who does not have a job has become clearer. This is the problem we are going to solve! We're not going to raise taxes on midwives. Ulla Andersson : Is it reasonable that education does not pay off in Sweden?
i-264f0a754519b8b2-337	Madam President, I would like Precisely because we want to reduce unemployment, we are investing in public investment. It is much more economically effective than tax cuts – it shows research, and it shows the reality. But I am well aware that this is a picture which the Liberals do not share. I would also think that this is precisely why your distribution policy – where the richest 10% get as much as the rest of the population – looks like it does. That education would not pay off is still a truth with modification, Mats Persson? People with higher education live longer and have better health and greater impact on social development and political debate. Of course, it is very important that we invest resources to make sure that more people can educate themselves longer if you want to. That is why, among other things, we are raising the funding for studies. That is also why we are investing more in welfare rather than saving it. But it is also the case, Mats Persson, that even those with higher education can work so that they get sick. People simply wear themselves out. They could be nurses, they could be midwives, and they could be nurses. Everyone I have met so far says that they would like to have more colleagues and that the stress is too obvious. I have not heard anyone say that health insurance is too safe or that welfare needs less resources. So I would like to ask you, Mats Persson: Why do you save so much on sick and unemployed people? Why is this a priority? You're talking about midwives who would get higher income tax. I have looked at the salaries – the average pay for midwives is not in line with the average salary of those who pay the lowest level of government income tax but quite far from it. The same is true of policemen and nurses, but I would like to raise their salaries.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-343	Madam President, I would like It becomes very clear that this is about ideology. It is not I who claim that education does not pay off in Sweden, but it is Saco, the trade union organisation, who shows it in his reports. Then Ulla Andersson says: I don't believe that. I think that politicians should beware of that, because it shows that it is very much about ideology and nothing else. It is obvious that it pays poorly to train in Sweden, often to women-dominated academic professions. Occupational therapists and midwives are two examples. What you are doing now is raising the tax so that six out of ten midwives this year will cross the state income tax line. It doesn't make sense. Training should pay off, and working should pay off. What social problem do you really want to solve when you raise taxes for midwives? What have they done to you, Ulla Andersson, when you raise taxes and make it less profitable to educate yourself? That doesn't make any sense.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-347	Madam President, I would like Yes, we want to hire more midwives. It's necessary. We want to invest more in maternity care and on more employees in health care, police and school. We do not want to make huge savings in welfare. It is so, Mats Persson, that if you have higher education you live longer, have better health, greater impact on social development and also higher income, so of course it pays to get educated. You get better pensions, and you get better benefits from health insurance, for example, if you have the bad luck of getting sick. I think we should invest in improving working conditions and raising people's salaries, because I would like midwives, police officers and nurses to receive significantly higher salaries than they do, but also nurses and child care workers. That is how we save welfare in the future, by hiring more and improving working conditions. And that's what we fund through tax revenue.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-350	Madam President, I would like Ulla Andersson often claims to protect the elderly in society. At the same time, together with the government, she is responsible for a policy that I do not think see the elderly's need for retirement homes and not least places in special housing. Many people want to move but remain in loneliness and insecurity at home without social intercourse, perhaps without adequate care, with fear of falling and hitting themselves without anyone knowing about it and so on. The shortage of retirement homes has increased during the term of office. It is now 125 municipalities that state that they have a shortage of retirement homes compared to 77 at the beginning of their term of office. Last year there were 4,646 people who, after having received a decision on retirement homes, were not allowed to come there for three months, and in some municipalities you have to wait for almost a year after a decision has been made on a place. This also means that dementia sufferers get sicker and sicker before they get a place. They have time to experience many health problems when they should actually be in a place in particular housing. This worries me. I think you have failed to solve this problem, which has instead increased during your time in the corridors of power. I am also worried when the National Board of Health and Welfare now warns that there is a great lack of competence and knowledge about dementia in home care. After all, you were involved in closing the Alliance's training effort for senior care personnel. My question is: if we agree that there is a serious shortage of retirement homes, why is Ulla Andersson so keen to close 23 000 places in retirement homes run by private owners? Is it not reasonable for it to put aside the ideologically motivated demand when we have this great flaw?
i-264f0a754519b8b2-356	Madam President, I would like I would like to turn the question around and ask why Jakob Forssmed wants the tax money to go to large private profits instead of more retirement homes in the care of the elderly. That is what is actually happening. In the profit-making companies, there is an enormous return on operating capital, 47% compared to 10% in the other services sector, so it goes without saying that a great deal of the tax money we pay goes to other things than what they are intended for. We have been involved in getting through historically great efforts on welfare, much greater than during your time in power, when the number of employees in welfare actually fell. We invest 10 billion in welfare, of which 2 billion in care for the elderly. In addition, there is investment aid for the construction of more retirement homes. I'm also worried about care for the elderly. More nurses need to be hired. We need, as Mr Jakob mentioned, to invest more in education and training. We need to improve working conditions and wages. There is a need for increased welfare billions in the coming years. It will simply be crucial for how we manage to keep society together. That is why I do not want to reduce taxes, which Jakob Forssmed seems to think is the solution. I do not get it all together how reduced taxes will finance more places in retirement homes, more education in dementia care and more nurses. But maybe Jakob Forssmed can explain that to me.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-360	Madam President, I would like First of all, we need to prioritise very strongly if we are to manage to reduce taxes on labour and at the same time make major welfare efforts. We Christian Democrats spend more on health care and care than Ulla Andersson's party does, even though we lower taxes on labour. We also raise some taxes on environmental pollution and consumption to cope with these efforts. I may not be so surprised, but it is obvious that Ulla Andersson's concern for the elderly in the 23 000 retirement homes does not go further than that she is prepared to use them in her struggle to remove diversity and choice from the care of the elderly. My reason for wanting alternatives in care for the elderly is that older people, who are in a fragile situation, should also be able to opt out of what is not working. Ulla Andersson does not want to give that opportunity to the elderly. She also wants to take away their retirement home, where they may feel more secure than they have done elsewhere.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-363	Madam President, I would like In the care of the elderly, venture capital companies are the major dominant players; they have over 50% of private activities. It says something-- you're there to make money. We also want diversity, and that is precisely why we want to limit the opportunities for venture capitalists, for example, to be in elderly care. We want it to be serious actors who are there for the sake of the elderly, because they want something with the business. Anyone who is there for the sake of elderly care will be able to continue to be there. Jakob Forssmed says that one should prioritize very hard in order to reduce taxes and invest in welfare. But in your collective budgetary options from the bourgeois side, Jakob Forssmed, what you are prioritising is huge savings on the sick and the unemployed, and even these people have children. How will their growing-up conditions be affected if their mothers and fathers are to have their financial situation so severely deteriorated?
i-264f0a754519b8b2-366	Madam President, I would like Sweden is in many ways a fantastic country. I am among those who really believe in Sweden. I believe that we can create a society in which enterprising entrepreneurs create new jobs and equality is increased by school functioning and that we can create a sustainable society by reducing climate emissions – a society that stays together. But to do this, we need to have the right picture of reality. Therefore, I am very worried when I hear how the government looks at how Sweden goes. There is always a risk that, as an opposition politician, you black paint everything with black brush strokes, but I will not do so. Sweden is a good country, a fantastic country. But there are plenty of social problems to deal with. One in six young people leaves comprehensive school without being eligible for upper secondary school. The dependency on benefits is deepened when people get stuck in benefit dependency year after year. Selflessness, in turn, is the breeding ground for the criminal gangs that strengthen their presence in our vulnerable suburbs, which plague with their presence in the vulnerable suburbs. The fact that the police density is the lowest since 2007 shows the seriousness of the matter. The healthcare queues are growing, and it is becoming increasingly difficult to get in touch with the health centre. We see that the welfare state and the rule of law do not work, and our social contract is being challenged. Madam President, I would like What exactly do we get for our tax money, a citizen asked me recently. Sweden has the world's highest marginal taxes on labour, but we do not have the best welfare in the world. My conclusion is that Sweden does not need to increase taxes but more taxpayers, and if we are to have more taxpayers, we must start by investing in building Sweden strongly both now and in the longer term. Madam President, I would like It's about school. The fact that every sixth student leaves comprehensive school without being eligible for upper secondary school is a historically high figure. Every sixth student! It is part of a society where gaps are growing, not least between the one receiving school support from home and the one leaving school in the afternoon to support their parents at home. As this draws to a head, we see the emergence of a new lower class. It creates a breeding ground for a society that is torn apart and a growing crime. We'll have a community where it'll be more important where you come from than where you're going. It is the opposite of the liberal vision of society. Your future should not be determined by your background; where you come from should mean less than where you are going. Madam President, I would like It is distressing to see that although one in six pupils leaves comprehensive school without being eligible for upper secondary school, there is a total lack of spending on school in the budget that is on Parliament's table. Even money is spent on electric boat engines as much as at school. It is ridiculous, but it is also worrying because it sends a clear signal that the school's problems are not being taken seriously. I see before me that Swedish school needs substantial reforms for knowledge and study and to raise the status of the teaching profession so that more students want to become teachers. Liberals are investing in extended schooling requirements for newcomers and more first teachers in exclusion areas. We focus on order, and we give priority to teachers. We know that the class trip begins in the classroom and that knowledge is power. Madam President, I would like A new unemployment is emerging in Sweden. In the midst of the boom, the number of vulnerable people in the Swedish labour market is 300 000. We see increased gaps between the person who has a job and the person who is outside and is not allowed to take part in a workplace community. We see that the dependency on subsidies is deepening. Two out of three are still dependent four years after they first received social assistance. When idleness gets stuck, the hope of a better future is extinguished, and when the dependency on benefits inherits for generations to come, Sweden becomes weaker. This is not least evident in our immigrant suburbs, where unemployment is spreading. It becomes a breeding ground for religious extremism, and here the criminal gangs collect their nourishment. When it is booming in Sweden it is not booming in Rinkeby, Rosengård or Bishopsgården. It is a question of creating a labour market where everyone is needed and where there are more simple real jobs for those who are currently outside. We're supposed to have high expectations of people. Everyone can and must contribute, and the person living on grants must carry out a traineeship or action to receive grants. It is a policy that lifts people and also lifts Sweden. Madam President, I would like Education should pay off. Liberals stand up for the hard-working Sweden. Education, responsibility and diligence should pay off in a society. This is not the case in today's Sweden. For many, it is a bad business to choose to spend three, four or five years of your life on education and living on student loans. That's completely unreasonable. A liberal justice approach is about everyone having the same conditions but also about education, diligence and diligence to pay off. Madam President, I would like How can we afford our common welfare? That is a question that many people I meet ask themselves. In the debate, Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson paints it as if all the money used in Sweden goes to reasonable and productive things. It's not like that. The government spends money on a wide range of things that do not solve any social problems. Let me take a few examples. First of all, the Employment Service is being expanded. Labour market policy receives SEK 80 billion, which is twice as much as the Swedish defence. You're building up in a boom. Secondly, even though housing is booming and housing is being built, it is being supported by developers to build housing. Thirdly, there is a placard policy that puts signal policy ahead of what actually produces results. The clearest example is that you give a special bonus to those who buy an e-bike. I myself am a cycling person who bikes more than I drive, but, with all due respect, subsidies for electric bicycles do not solve the common global climate problem. We can only solve this with a European carbon tax and joint efforts. Madam President, I would like I am among those who believe that the reforms we are making in the coming years must be fully funded. If you do not dare to make this priority and do not dare to cut the expenditure I have described here, we will see increased taxes in the future. Madam President, I would like Magdalena Andersson will increase the tax in the coming years, but Sweden does not need higher taxes but more taxpayers. Madam President, I would like There is a risk that the boom will obscure the outlook, but the recession will soon come. Every day Swedish companies feel the murderous competition from Chinese, Americans and Germans. What the Swedish entrepreneur knows is that he or she must be a little better than his German or American competitor. The same approach should shape economic policy in Sweden. We are a small, open economy on the outskirts of northern Europe that needs to have better economic conditions than our competitor countries. We're not supposed to have higher taxes than they have. It should be more attractive to be an entrepreneur in Sweden. It should be more attractive to locate your head office in Sweden and not like now that Nordea leaves Sweden and Spotify chooses to be listed on the US stock exchange. These are signs that Sweden does not have better economic conditions than other countries. Madam President, I would like Last of all, the Liberals put the school first. If we are to make Sweden stronger in the future and build an equal society that stays together and where we also have the sharpest entrepreneurs in the future, the school must work. In our budget exercise, we give priority to the school. We prioritise knowledge and studyo and to raise the status of the teaching profession. When the school works, Sweden works.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-391	Madam President, I would like Four years ago, we changed our focus on Swedish politics, away from unfair tax cuts to investments in the construction of society. We are now making a collection of forces to make society better together, and that is our choice. With the Swedish Green Party in the government, Sweden has got a tougher climate policy and taken big steps to reach the climate goals. Last autumn we presented the largest environmental budget ever with a record number of investments in the climate and the environment. With the spring budget, we invest even more in the environment and climate. After four years in the government, the Green Party has ensured that Sweden has introduced the world's most ambitious climate law, taken international leadership for the oceans to become cleaner and changed direction so that the industry moves in a more sustainable direction. We have also made it possible for more people to travel more fossil-free and choose to decorate their roofs with solar cells. In addition, more people can choose the bike over the car with our, note well, acclaimed e-bike premium. I will not just talk about the environment and climate, because it is also about the direction of politics in other ways. For us, the choice is simple. Are we going to move forward together, or are we going back to falling taxes and growing divides? Distribution policy with social sustainability is important for the Green Party. It is an issue that is also important for many people who call themselves social liberals. However, the most recent Liberal budgets propose a particularly poor distribution policy. The big investment is on tax cuts for those with the highest income. My question to Mats Persson is: Are you satisfied that liberal politics greatly increases economic disparities and that Liberal politics benefits men more than women?
i-264f0a754519b8b2-397	Madam President, I would like I am not ashamed that in our budget we clearly say that education should pay off. It is a principle that I want to stand up for, and it is reflected in the budgetary option that the Liberals have put on the table of Parliament. This is an important focus for Sweden. For example, Astra's manager and management say: When we recruit people from other countries to Sweden, they say that it is not our taxes that make them want to move here, even if Sweden has clean water and good childcare facilities. It is clear that taxes are a problem for Swedish companies, and above all they make education pay poorly. We are also reducing the tax in our budget for those who have the lowest incomes and those who go from subsidies to work. We have a policy that is very focused on reducing the widening gaps. The big gap in Swedish society is not about midwives having higher taxes, but about the fact that there is a gap between those who have work and those who do not have it. When people listen to you in the Green Party these days, they are reminded that there was a time when you did not sound like Social Democrats. With all due respect, but the rhetoric is incredibly left-wing, which concerns me. What happened to the view of small businesses? What happened to the view of choice? What happened to the idea of believing that entrepreneurs build Sweden? You don't hear anything about it anymore. When you criticise our budget and say that it has no environmental policy, I am very concerned. I think you and we want the same thing, but we have different ways of doing it. Liberals believe in the 'polluter pays' principle, which is why we have a green tax shift in our budget. We raise environmental taxes, and we lower taxes on labour. However, we do not believe in placard politics. We do not believe in targeted subsidies for what the policy believes will have an effect. We don't believe this. Sometimes different assessments are made in politics, but do not try to give a picture that we do not protect the environment! We are incredibly active on the climate issue.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-404	Madam President, I would like I do not think I was trying to give any idea of the Liberals' environmental policy at the moment. Let's get back to that one. Regarding the fact that the Liberals and Mats Persson do not believe that our environmental proposals lead to what we say, we can listen to, for example, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which says that it is these measures that will end the climate gap that the alliance government left behind. But I look forward to the Liberals' offensive environmental proposals. I would also like to comment that Mats Persson often uses the word diligence – that it will pay to be diligent. I think that this shows a human view that I do not share: that one thinks that one who goes to university is more diligent than one who is a cleaner and tries to get a job and support his children. I notice that Mats Persson did not answer the question of whether he likes his economic policy, which increases the differences in society and which gives men considerably more than women.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-408	Madam President, I would like Then I'll have to be very clear, even though I thought I answered very clearly. I am incredibly proud of our economic policy, because it says that education should pay off. That is a principle that I think is important to stand up for. The Green Party had comments on the word diligence. I find it very sad when, in debates, you deliberately misunderstand the intention, as if I were a bad person. Of course I look up to all the people who are doing their best, whether they are educated or not. But I also think it is reasonable that a person who is educated or who becomes a manager at work and thus takes a little more responsibility than others and gets more bark should not be taxed for it. I am not ashamed of our economic policy at all. I think it is reasonable that education should pay off, that those who take responsibility should reap the benefits of it and that diligence should pay off. I hope we don't have to misunderstand each other. I think we want the best. I hope so. We all want to build society well, but we have different techniques and visions to do so.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-412	Madam President, I would like The World Economic Forum measures competitiveness in different countries. Since the Liberals left the government, Sweden has climbed 30 locations – I think that says quite a lot. Bloomberg measures innovation power, and that's where we're second. Forbes measures the business climate, and that is where we are at the top. I thought it might be useful to inform Mats Persson about this. Mats Persson talks about responsibility and diligence to pay off. Then Mats Persson saves huge amounts of people who have worked sick and have simply worked so that the body and the brain have run out. Furthermore, Mats Persson says that the school should come first, but that's not true. What comes first in your budget, Mats Persson, is tax cuts. If you look at how they are distributed, you can see that the 10% that already have it is by far the best get as much as the other 90% of the population. Do you believe in the Liberals that these 90% are not making sufficient efforts, are not diligent and do not contribute to the development of society, because your distribution policy is that way? Is it the case, Mats Persson, that men make so much effort and are much more diligent than women, because you give twice as much to men as to women in your budget policy? I would like an answer to this, because I think it is very relevant information for the citizens. Mats Persson! If you're going to put school first, you're going to have to spend 20 billion on school next year, because there's about so much you're cutting taxes by.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-417	Madam President, I would like We are fully financing our tax cuts, including in a green tax shift. We do not have the extensive expenses that Ulla Andersson has for example for Arbetsförmedlingen or grants for developers. That is why we can make that priority. We'll put the school first for a reason. We do this because we believe that it builds Sweden strongly, that it gives all children the opportunity to grow and that it allows all children to learn something in school, but then you have to assume that all students are different. That is what we do in our budget, where we invest in knowledge and studies. We also clearly say that the status of the teaching profession must be increased. Ulla Andersson is angry – you feel it – that a party can put forward a proposal that says that education, diligence and responsibility should pay off. It illustrates the difference between socialist justice and liberal justice. For a socialist, equality is always about taking from the rich and giving to the poor and about income equalization. For a liberal, it is about everyone having the same conditions, but also about those who, for example, train and refrain from working for four or five years reaping the benefits of it. It's different views. I think it is important to stand up for the view that education should pay off. I'm not ashamed of that at all. Does this mean that the midwife receives lower taxes? Does this increase social divides? No, it does not, because we are making parallel efforts to get those who are currently outside the workplace's community into it. As more people get into work, the gap narrows, for the biggest gap is between the one who has work and the one who doesn't. There are two completely different ideological approaches that meet here. My interesting question to Ulla Andersson is: Where is the limit for how much tax you want to charge?
i-264f0a754519b8b2-422	Madam President, I would like In our latest budget motion, before we started budget negotiations, we had a tax rate of 46 percent, much as it was when Göran Persson ruled in this country. During your reign, the economic gaps increased most in Sweden of all OECD countries. I think it's clear. For a liberal, it seems to be the 10 richest percentages that will benefit. Why else do they receive as much as the other 90% of the population? Liberals usually say they're feminists, but why do men get twice as much as women? Don't women try hard enough? Are the other 90% of the population not trying hard enough either because they do not have the same opportunity to take part in the Liberals' income gains? And no, Mats Persson, for you school does not come first, but for you tax cuts come first. Otherwise, the school in your budget table would have been 20 billion above the government's and Left Party's budget options, and it does not.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-425	Madam President, I would like If we Liberals talk about our proposals, Ulla Andersson can tell us about his proposals. We have that order in the debate. Then I want to tell you that what we have already done in our budget is to spend 16 billion more on the school than Ulla Andersson and the government do. We do this because we put the school first and because we really want to prioritise it. We know that if there is something that gives equality in a society it is when the class journey begins in the classroom– that is where it begins. We are clear about that priority. Are we discriminating against women in our tax policy? We certainly do not. Of course we don't. What is at issue here is that men in our society earn more because men often work in the private sector and because we politicians have been too bad at getting wages up in women's dominated professions. We want to do something about that when we say, for example, that teachers' salaries must be raised. It's a way for us to take on our feminist responsibility. It is very clear that we have very different ideological starting points. It would be nice if you didn't accuse the other person of wanting something bad with society.
i-264f0a754519b8b2-429	Madam President, I would like Dear Hearers! This spring proposal confirms that Sweden pays a high price for the government's passive policy. Those who pay the highest price are the increasing number of unemployed who are in a vulnerable position, who do not get a chance in a working community, who are not allowed to show what they are able to do and who do not get a chance to support themselves. Those who also have to pay a high price are those who do not get a place in a retirement home, where the shortage has increased during their term of office. It is also those who are victims of crime, not least in our suburbs, and it is all fragile people in need of care who have to wait in ever longer care queues. These people pay the price of passivity, and Sweden cannot afford another term of office with the same policy. We have heard Magdalena Andersson from the government paint life in relatively bright colors. It is not difficult to see that the cyclical weather is beautiful and that Sweden's conditions to meet also major challenges are fundamentally good. That's good. These include a high level of education, natural resources, innovations, successful companies, enterprising entrepreneurs, a strong commitment to civil society and many who go to work in the dark. Work is the foundation, the forest is our green gold and trust our invisible diamond. Great trust between people is also the hidden asset of the national economy. A long boom and the Alliance's job reforms have also filled Sweden's pantry with good raw materials. It has been many good years in a row, but the government has wasted the boom. There have been considerable resources at their disposal, but the talents have been buried. Structurally correct reforms have shone with their absence. This passivity makes necessary repairs more difficult and expensive, and it affects the needy here and now. Instead, the government has used our common resources and even increased taxes on labour, savings, improvements and even generosity to be able to scatter a number of reforms out of a kind of candy bag – both small and big candy, one might say. It is clear that some are good, but there is also what really deserves to be criticized: electric motor premium, electric bicycle premium – even me as a bicycle constantly think it's a strange reform – lower VAT on nature guides, free bus cards to school students, five billion subsidies to construction companies that don't even want them, free genealogy, free entrance to museums and free one and the other. We need, first and foremost, substantial reforms for the housing market, the labour market, competitiveness, jobs, health care and long-term care. The body needs nutritious and fiber-rich food, like broccoli. But many reforms are instead characterised by sugar, gelatine, dyes and various types of E-numbers, like raspberry licorice skulls. It's low-nutrition, fibre-free and relatively chew resistance weak, you might say. It is perhaps the new Swedish model – the plate model. The Social Democrats promised the lowest unemployment in Europe by 2020. It would be a gold medal, but we are far from the podium, held by the Czech Republic, Germany and Malta. Sweden comes a long way down the list. We would slip out of the Olympic programme if we showed such results. The most important electoral promise of the Social Democrats thus fails. Stefan Löfven even promised that no minister would be allowed to make a single proposal that did not contribute to achieving this goal. In the spring bill, the government is now making the assessment that it misses this goal. It is, of course, a huge failure, especially for those people who do not get the chance in a working community, who cannot contribute in a workplace and who do not get the chance to support themselves. Running people in need of care also pays a high price for the government's passivity. In the 2014 elections, the Social Democrats promised absolute world-class care. Fewer and fewer now agree with that description, soon four years later. A strongly decreasing proportion of Swedish patients think that the healthcare system works well. When the population of eleven countries get a rating on the quality of health care, Sweden is the second last among comparable countries. It is no wonder when the government has been passive and allowed the care queues to grow from about 40,000 to 90 000 people who have had to wait more than 90 days. Care queues have more than doubled. The government has not focused on this, and it has not been able to reverse developments. Instead, the queue billions were abolished. A special wage tax has also been introduced on older workers. I have warned, in debate after debate, how this will affect the ability of municipalities and county councils to keep key people – experienced doctors, social secretaries, specialist nurses and teachers who could work for a few more years but who have bigger problems when the government imposes a special payroll tax. Now – indeed at the eleventh hour – in the last amending budget, the government is investing 200 million in a small attempt to stop this flow of blood. Too little and too late is a worn-out expression, but rarely has it been more appropriate. In the area by area, the price of passivity is high. The shortage of retirement homes has increased. There is now a shortage in 125 municipalities, compared with 77 in 2014. More elderly people end up in loneliness and isolation, with purely physical consequences. Health is deteriorating in the wake of insecurity. Security is also deteriorating. One might think from the government's rhetoric that we now have thousands more police officers patrolling our streets and squares. But the conclusion is that we have 439 fewer than when the government took office. An authority responsible for law and order, directly subordinate to the government, with 439 fewer police officers. What a failure! I think it takes a lot more than just police officers to reverse the trend of increased insecurity. I believe in civil society. But I am also convinced that if the state does not do its thing, and if the police cannot protect entrepreneurs and citizens, then trust will be reduced. Unless the perpetrators of serious crimes run a very high risk of getting caught, we can hardly expect civil society to be able to cope, like the night-walking mothers in Husby, Rinkeby and Gottsunda who night after night go out into the Swedish dark colds to support and set limits. This passive policy needs to be replaced by an active reform agenda for Sweden in order to prioritise and reform the basic welfare functions to meet people's needs, to strengthen the economy and to strengthen competitiveness. Reforms are needed to boost job growth. Then trust can increase. We have the conditions: We have entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs ready to unleash their creative power. We have those who have come to our country and who want nothing more than to contribute. We have parents who want the best for their children. We have healthcare professionals who are making enormous efforts. We have so many assets. And we have an arsenal of Christian Democratic reforms and of alliance reforms ready to be launched. There are reforms for jobs, more vocational training, tax relief for work, so that more jobs can emerge, start-up jobs where you get the chance to learn the job at work with a slightly lower starting salary. We have reforms for security and more police. It's called entry job. It's good that you're down there on the alliance bench. We have reforms for security and more police, but not only more, but with better wages and better conditions and with clearer local anchoring. The Christian Democrats have reforms for the families. It is about flexible parental insurance, parental support and better finances. Not least, we have reforms for our elderly. There are substantial improvements in the economy of the most deprived older people, so that social needs do not have to be given priority. It is support for municipalities that build retirement homes and periodic penalty payments for those who only prolong gender. We will give power and authority to all over 85 to choose for ourselves when it is time to move to a retirement home. They should not be dependent on authorities, but should be able to break loneliness and isolation themselves. We have the reforms for health care. We prioritise the most resources for health care and care. But it is not just more money, it is money to increase quality and structural reforms to shorten queues, to get more care places and to expand primary care, so that we do not have to go as often to hospitals' emergency rooms and so that the care really does come to the sick and fragile ones. We want to do this. We want to put forward these reforms in order to build a society of freedom without egoism and with solidarity without socialism. We've stepped in before when it's been empty and tired in the Government Office. We have done so together with the reform force spelled the Alliance. My view, Madam President, is that this spring bill shows that it is time to replace this government.
