i-927a4619b555a0f0-4	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm has asked me whether I intend to take action on the proposals of the Climate Congress and, if so, what. He has also asked me what new decisions and instruments I intend to take the initiative for Sweden as a country to take responsibility for achieving our national climate goals and our commitment in accordance with the Paris Agreement. I would like to start by thanking you for the interpellation. Climate Sweden is an important meeting place for raising and discussing the climate issue and suggestions on how we can reduce our emissions. I think that the proposals made by the Climate Parliament are interesting. As far as several of the proposals are concerned, work is already under way, and it is excellent that climate change is confirming that we are on the right track. If we are to meet the climate challenge, all parts of society must be involved in the transition. During the term of office, the Government has been keen to involve various actors in society in order to gain new knowledge and suggestions on how to strengthen our climate work. One example of this is Fossil-free Sweden, which involves a large number of actors. Recently, nine industry sectors have developed and submitted to the government their own roadmaps to achieve fossil freedom while strengthening their competitiveness. In April, the Government submitted a letter with a climate strategy for Sweden to the Riksdag. The letter was based on the strategy proposed by the Parliamentary Committee on Environmental Objectives. The climate strategy points out the direction of the continued climate work to achieve our ambitious, new climate goals. It is gratifying to see that a number of the winning exercises of the Climate Parliament concern measures and areas of action that the Government highlights in its climate strategy. Just as Jens Holm points out, greenhouse gas emissions need to be reduced faster. In order to reach the 2030 milestone for the activities covered by the EU ESD, emissions need to be reduced by more than 15 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent. To achieve the transport target, emissions must be reduced by more than 10 million tonnes. The government has already taken important steps to reduce emissions through new and strengthened instruments such as the Climate Cell, the Malus bonus system and the fuel exchange. Last autumn, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency presented an initial follow-up to the new milestones. According to this, these three efforts contribute to reducing the gap to reach the ESR target to around 2 – 4 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent by 2030. In order to reach the 2030 targets for domestic transport, the gap is estimated at around 1 – 3 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent. Further efforts are needed, as the Government has also highlighted in its climate strategy. The climate law introduced at the turn of the year, with broad support in the Riksdag, requires each government to present annually a climate report to the Riksdag and the year following the ordinary parliamentary elections to present a climate action plan. The new Climate Act will therefore require the post-election government to report its planned emissions reduction measures by next year and the extent to which decided and planned actions in other areas of expenditure also affect the ability to achieve national and global climate targets. I am convinced that this will put pressure on the government to deliver further measures to accelerate climate change.
i-927a4619b555a0f0-11	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Minister Lövin for her answer to my interpellation. I welcome the fact that the Minister for Climate Change acknowledges the need for many more decisions and measures to reduce emissions in Sweden. We see that emissions in Sweden are not decreasing at the rate they should be doing so that we can stay within a sustainable framework. We also know that in Sweden, which is an industrialized country, we have a greater responsibility for climate change. We should go ahead and reduce our emissions faster than developing countries which are actually entitled to development and perhaps for some time also the right to slightly increased emissions. This was also the clear message, namely that we must speed up the pace in Sweden, from Sweden's climate holiday, which handed over these twelve winning motions, which I now hold in my hand, to me and representatives of the other parliamentary parties. Among these exercises are a number of concrete suggestions on how we in Sweden could speed up the pace of climate work. A motion refers to the need for a deadline for fossil fuels. Another exercise concerns the financial sector and that our pension money and other capital should not be placed in things that increase emissions. There is also a motion that touches on the importance of a long-term strategy to reduce aviation emissions. Another exercise concerns the importance of a global food strategy so that we can continue to produce food but without increasing emissions. There is also a motion that is labeled Based Sweden's climate law on a carbon dioxide budget for the two degree plantation. I think that these are very important contributions from the perhaps fastest growing and most interesting climate movement that we have in Sweden, namely Climate Sweden. Mr President, I would like to What I miss little in the climate minister's answer is to relate specifically to these motions that both the climate minister and I have received, such as the motion concerning the importance of a fossil-free financial sector. We know that our pension funds are located in half of the world's 100 largest fossil companies – I'm talking about Shell, Texaco, Lundin Petroleum, Gazprom, Chevron and so on. There the government, together with the bourgeois parties, has put forward new investment criteria, but there is still no requirement for divestation, i.e. that one should deinvest from the fossil. Is the Minister prepared to take such an initiative? In the motion concerning a carbon dioxide budget within the framework of the two-degree target, we are not talking about emission reductions of 1 per cent, where we put them now, but about Sweden having to reduce emissions by 10 – 15 per cent each year. It also concerns the emissions of consumption. There are no concrete objectives and instruments. How does Isabella Lövin view it? As far as aviation emissions are concerned, aviation taxes are good, but much more needs to be done. Right, Isabella Lövin?
i-KjmSpyuw68LmtZwPmF5qNs	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the questions, Jens Holm! Unfortunately, the boxes at the Ministry of the Environment were empty when the government took office in autumn 2014. There were no studies and no progressive work on how to achieve the Paris Agreement's goals and reduce emissions in Sweden. I agree that emissions are decreasing far too slowly as it is now. They decreased by 1.3 per cent last year. We need to speed up. The Environmental Protection Agency has looked at the radical reforms that we have carried out during this term of office. I am pleased that they see that we will reach the climate targets by 2020, and we are quite close to achieving the 2030 targets as well. But if we look at the earth's climate and the need to reduce emissions faster – just as Jens Holm says, we are a rich country and have a greater responsibility – we see that we need to speed up. And we're going to step up the pace further. I fully agree with both the climate parliament and Jens Holm that we need to do it. It is also important to say that the climate law that we have adopted this parliamentary term is probably the most ambitious climate law in the world. It forces future governments to report to the Riksdag how to proceed in this work. It should not be empty of proposals in the boxes, but every government needs to do more. This government has done a great deal in most of the areas proposed by the Climate Parliament. We have adopted targets of 100% renewable energy. We've adopted a flight tax. We have also added a study on how aviation emissions should be reduced by other methods, for example with the involvement of biofuels – Maria Wetterstrand is the leader of this investigation. We have doubled the support for the protection of forests and conservation-worthy nature. We have an urban environment agreement and climate change. We are investing in the railways, and we have significantly increased investments in both the maintenance and initial investment of railways during this time. We have also announced an investigation into negative emissions eventually and many more things. As far as the financial sector is concerned, it is true that it is important to switch investments so that we move from fossil investment to renewable and sustainable investment. In the case of the AP funds, about 1 percent of the total market value of the First – Fourth-AP fund is still in the fossil companies. That's 13 billion, which is a very large amount. But in view of the overall picture, it is still a very small part of capital. This government has ensured that, for the first time, it is clearly stated in the legislation of the AP funds that they will manage their money sustainably in line with international agreements, i.e. the Paris Agreement, Agenda 2030 and other binding commitments we have, for example with regard to human rights. This is the first time it's ever happened. In addition, during our term of office, we have done a number of other things to require a carbon footprint accounting standard with different industry stakeholders. Also at European level, we have taken the initiative, together with France, for an EU directive on sustainability reporting. Climate risks are a new supervisory area for Finansinspektionen, which we have pushed through. We also have a proposal for a referral that only funds with sustainability work should be allowed within the premium pension. And an investigation into green bonds has been handed over. A great deal has been done, and we need to do more.
i-927a4619b555a0f0-26	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for those answers. If we start with the flight, I and the Left Party really welcomed the flight tax. Although it was slightly lower than originally proposed, it is good that we have it in place. Now you can turn it on. It is very likely that this will be necessary. And that is exactly what is proposed in one of these exercises. It simply requires a tougher grip on aviation emissions. It is not just about air tax but about airports in our country being subsidised with tax money. The question is that aviation fuel is entirely tax-free. In this respect, I would like to ask the Minister for Climate Change a direct question: has the government taken initiatives at international level to remove the tax exemption for aviation fuel? Foreign flights are also completely VAT-free here in Sweden, and domestic flights have the lowest VAT rate. These are things that the government could change here and now. Are any such initiatives under way? As far as the financial sector is concerned, it is true that the new investment criteria state that investments should be made in line with international agreements. But it does not say that it should be done in accordance with the Paris Agreement. That agreement is not mentioned at all in the new investment directives. That's too bad. You should change that. I am a little surprised that the Minister for Climate Change does not think it is about very big money that is tied in with fossil fuels. We can turn it around and ask ourselves how much of the AP funds' capital has been actively invested in renewable investments, i.e. in companies that invest in wind energy, solar energy and so on. I asked that question to the parliamentary investigation service and received the answer that it is so small that it is not possible to quantify. The government could give the AP funds a concrete task, to actively invest in environmental companies and other rescheduling operations. No such proposal has been made. But maybe it's coming. I'd love to hear from the climate minister. Mr President, I would like to The infrastructure and its planning are also addressed in one of the exercises. The Minister for Climate Change mentions that we now have a climate law and that all policy areas must remain within those limits or relate to climate objectives so that they are not exceeded. That's great. At the same time, however, this government has given the go-ahead to the construction of Bypass Stockholm, which is Sweden's most expensive motorway building, contrary to the recommendations of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency warns that this will lead to increased emissions. In the Government's proposal for infrastructure planning, I could see an increase in rail investments, which is a good thing, but there are also a number of named road projects, such as Tvärtändning Södertörn here in Stockholm. It is also a large-scale motorway project that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency advises against building because it will increase our emissions. How do the infrastructure projects rhyme with our Climate Act, Isabella Lövin?
i-927a4619b555a0f0-36	Mr President, I would like to With regard to aviation and the international dimension of aviation, both I and Jens Holm know that it rests on the Chicago Convention, which is at least 50 years old. At that time, aviation was not seen as an environmental problem, but it was ensured that aviation fuel would not be taxed nationally. Here we have now taken a step forward in the ICAO negotiations in order for aviation emissions to stop at 2023, I think it is – I do not remember exactly what year and reserve me for the date. At least there has been a step forward. But it's going too slow. There's Jens Holm and I in full agreement. During this parliamentary term, we have taken a major step forward nationally by introducing a flight tax. It is distressing that there are parties in this Parliament who were willing to even threaten to remove ministers if this air tax were to be introduced. We took that fight and we've implemented a flight tax. It is absolutely essential that aviation bears some of its climate costs. And we've taken that step now. I fully agree with Jens Holm and the environmental movement in general that flights must gradually reduce and bear their climate costs. We must also ensure that we simply have a different type of technology so that emissions from aviation are reduced and do not increase at the same rate as today. There must also be alternatives. That is why we are pushing for high-speed trains. Unfortunately, we have not had a cross-block agreement in order to move forward with this before the elections. I'm sorry about that. But high-speed trains can replace much of long-distance travel with a much more comfortable and environmentally sustainable alternative for the future. It is an investment that needs to be made. When it comes to the governance of the AP funds, the government is responsible for the government, but the funds are governed only by law. The Left Party has chosen not to be part of the Pensions Group and has therefore not been able to influence. It is the Green Party that has pushed this forward with sustainability, which was something that other parties were initially not interested in. What we can do is to appoint board members and evaluate the management afterwards. But by introducing into law, for the first time, that one should relate to international agreements and that sustainability is a stated goal, the government expects AP funds' boards and managers to relate to this. The discussion on stranded assets and profit opportunities if you continue to invest in non-sustainable forms of energy, for example, should also provide sufficient motivation for AP funds not to go there and to continue to increase their investments in renewables. Swedish infrastructure investments include a historically large budget for investments in rail. This applies to both maintenance and initial investment. It is 77% of new investment in the infrastructure bill that is about rail, and it is historic. It enables a long-term sustainable transport sector.
i-927a4619b555a0f0-45	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to infrastructure investments, I do not really share Isabella Lövin's positive picture. Of course, it is good that there is more to the railways, but there will also be major motorway investments. That is why we in the Left Party chose not to support that proposal. There is a great deal to be done here to ensure that the entire infrastructure policy relates to the climate targets, so that it is not the other way round that we build a lot of new motorways and then try to fix the climate targets. It's not working. As far as the AP funds are concerned, we in the Left Party call for clearer investment criteria and a more active government policy. Just as the Minister was on the subject, it is possible to change the investment criteria, and the government has done so. The problem, however, is that the Paris Agreement is not explicitly mentioned, that there are no explicit targets for investments in renewables and other things that change and that it does not call on the funds to actively deinvest from fossil fuels. As far as the ICAO agreement is concerned, it is unfortunately a bit of a chimera to believe that the agreement, which is entirely voluntary and based on countries buying emission credits, will lead to the removal of the tax exemption on aviation fuel. I think it is important that we say as it is in this context. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by thanking you for this debate and once again stressing the importance of the twelve motions of the climate holiday. They have helped to push my party, and I very much hope that the government will study all twelve movements carefully and use them as active tools in the transformation work of Sweden, because that is needed.
i-927a4619b555a0f0-50	Mr President, I would like to Thank you Jens Holm! I would like to emphasise once again that, of the investment framework for infrastructure that we have put forward by 2029, 77% goes to rail and a very small part to roads. It is a paradigm shift that we increase investment in rail so much. The increase is 32% compared to the previous planning period, and that is a good thing. That, of course, is not enough, and that is why climate law exists. Each year, each government has to report its climate work. We have a climate policy council that is an independent authority with the task of reviewing, criticising and proposing how to achieve the climate goals. It's going to be necessary. When the IPCC comes up with its 1.5-degree report this year, all the countries of the world will realise that you need to move forward even faster. Although Sweden has the world's most ambitious climate law today, it may need to be updated with even more ambitious targets based on the 1, 5-degree target. The Climate Policy Council is the guarantor of a transparent climate policy in the future. The Climate Act is also a guarantee that all ministries, all ministers and the entire government have a responsibility to reduce emissions at the rate that we jointly set in this Parliament as targets for bringing emissions down to net zero by 2045. So I sincerely hope that everyone will take responsibility for that. I totally agree with Jens Holm that climate change is an amazing popular movement. I and the government are looking at the proposals, and there are many where we are already in the pipeline and other proposals that we need to analyse further.
i-927a4619b555a0f0-55	Mr President, I would like to Markus Wiechel has asked me why the government expresses its support to the same group responsible for the offensive in Afrin Province, how the government believes that support for the Turkish-supported so-called Syrian interim government improves the situation of the Kurds in northern Syria and how the government believes that support for the Syrian interim government facilitates the ceasefire goal throughout Syria, including Afrin. As I replied earlier to Markus Wiechel, the government has been clear in its criticism of Turkey's military operation in Afrin Province and in our expectation that Turkey respects UN Security Council Resolution 2401 on ceasefire throughout Syria, including Afrin. This has been communicated to representatives of the Turkish Government, the UN Security Council and the EU. Not least, this criticism is found in the EU Council conclusions on Syria to which Mr Wiechel refers. The conflict in Syria has caused enormous suffering to millions of people. For this, the Syrian regime and its allies bear the main responsibility. Despite repeated requests from the UN Security Council and the international community, the regime has consistently stalled and prevented the UN-led political talks with the political opposition. Instead, they have chosen to continue for more than seven years the gross and indiscriminate violence. In the absence of a political solution, the EU has chosen to support efforts in opposition-controlled areas related to training and job creation, as well as the maintenance of civilian structures and authorities. Ultimately, this is about giving people in Syria an opportunity to support themselves and to live a dignified life despite the terrible conflict that is going on. In this context, the so-called Syrian Interim Government is one of many actors with which the EU cooperates. The groups and actions supported by the EU and the government are therefore not armed but civilians. Once again, I would like to emphasise that sustainable peace in Syria cannot be achieved as long as the regime and its allies maintain their ambition to implement a military solution. Violence can never give the legitimacy needed to heal the wounds and overcome the divisions caused by the regime in particular since the outbreak of the conflict in 2011. The only way to do this is through a UN-led political process. That is why the government supports both politically and financially the UN-led political talks in Geneva and the Secretary-General's Special Envoy Staffan de Mistura.
i-927a4619b555a0f0-59	Mr President, I would like to Jeff Ahl has asked me whether, in our relations with the United Kingdom, I or the government intend to take diplomatic action following the arrest of Robinson, and whether the actions of the British court can be considered undemocratic. British law, in some cases, prohibits reporting on an ongoing trial, in order not to interfere with the trial. This seems to have been the case in Leeds, where Tommy Robinson, when filming in a court of law, was judged by the British judiciary to have violated this rule. We see no reason to call into question the application of British law by British law enforcement agencies, on which we can rely, in line with international commitments on human rights, including freedom of expression.
i-927a4619b555a0f0-62	Mr President, I would like to The Foreign Minister reaffirms this government's anti-democratic agenda. What we see in Western Europe is a wave of censorship and repeated attacks on both freedom of expression and democracy. This is the view of the strongly growing party Alternatives for Sweden seriously. The globalists, whom this government and the so-called bourgeois opposition form part of, defame and oppose democratically elected leaders in Eastern Europe, especially in Hungary and Poland, while turning a blind eye to genuine abuses of freedom of expression in Britain. Together with the EU bureaucracy and other globalist governments across Europe, our government uses methods commonly used by dictatorships to prevent the fresh wind of nationalism spreading across Europe. Tommy Robinson has been thrown into British prison after he tried to report a Muslim gang guilty of a sexual assault on a girl. Globalists want to stop any criticism of the effects of the multicultural experiment. It is an experiment intended by the globalists to destroy previously well-functioning nation states. Why Tommy Robinson is interesting to us in Sweden depends on the spillage effect this may have. This is happening in our absolute vicinity and in a country that we have a great deal of exchange with and with. In Sweden, for example, the current government has put pressure on private companies to censor dissidents. In Sweden, as in the UK, a witch hunt is taking place on ordinary citizens who dare to speak out critically on issues relating mainly to immigration and Islam. The entire establishment of non-state actors, the state and the regime loyal media contribute to this witch hunt. The so-called incitement-to-people-legislation seeks to scare critical citizens into silence. Hets-to-people-legislation is used more or less as a blasphemy law in Sweden, which is otherwise characteristic of a dictatorship. Mr President, I would like to It is remarkable that the government is trying to undermine real democratic governments in, for example, Hungary and Poland, but it cannot even extend so far as to a formal protest against the UK Government when a genuine abuse of freedom of expression has taken place. Tommy Robinson was sentenced to prison after a summary and surprisingly rapid trial. In addition, the British media were gaged under this farce. This is revealing, Mr President, to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and our anti-democratic establishment that governs Sweden.
i-927a4619b555a0f0-68	Mr President, I would like to I think Jeff Ahl has his own definition of democracy. Perhaps he is also living in his own little bubble, where Poland and Hungary are apparently role models. I now choose to respond to the interpellation that I have received. One should know that Tommy Robinson is a well-known British right-wing extrem who has been convicted several times before. He is co-founder of a right-wing and immigration-critical organization called the English Defence League, which he is reported to have now left. What has happened is that Robinson has confessed to and been convicted of contempt for justice after filming outside Leeds Crown Court. The court then issued a temporary ban on media reporting on the judgment against Robinson. However, following the appeal by the British media, the temporary ban was lifted. I do not share the questioner's assertion that the judicial process would be an example of undemocratic behaviour. We have no reason to question the application of British law by the British judiciary or the courts. Therefore, there is also nothing that causes diplomatic reactions from the Swedish side. The rest I think is so bad and strange claims that I choose not to comment on it.
i-927a4619b555a0f0-72	Mr President, I would like to I understand that Mrs Wallström and the government do not want to respond to this, because the context we are talking about and which we see is the truth. You are attacking democracies while turning a blind eye to genuine abuse of freedom of expression. That is why the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not want to respond. It is interesting that the Minister for Foreign Affairs uses the word, which is critical of immigration, about the organisation that Tommy Robinson used to belong to. It shows that the Minister for Foreign Affairs understands that she and the government actually flatten those who have critical votes against a particular political issue. So she confirms what I have just said. EDL was an organisation that resisted multiculturalism and used its democratic right to do so. Let me take some examples of when freedom of expression is threatened in Sweden. For example, a few years ago, the regime-loyal P.K. Expressen carried out a witch hunt on ordinary citizens because they used their civil right to speak anonymously in various forums in alternative media. These were revealed in cooperation with violent left-wing elements. The same newspaper has worked with the government to exert pressure on private companies to censor dissidents in Sweden, to which my party has been subjected. A 71-year-old female pensioner has been convicted by the Borås District Court for having had opinions about Islam, among other things. Another woman, 50 years old, has been convicted of incitement to ethnic groups because she had a critical attitude towards the reception of immigrants from Somalia. That's why the case of Tommy Robinson is interesting. He has now been sentenced to 13 months in prison. Moreover, he is now being transferred from the prison where he began to serve his sentence, which has a lower proportion of Muslim prisoners to a prison with a significantly higher proportion of Muslims. Everyone with some sort of logical ability to think understands what this can mean for a profiled Islam critic like Robinson. What the British globalist government and its minions in the British judiciary are prepared to do is, on the one hand, to give Robinson a long prison sentence for exercising his civil right to freedom of expression and to act as a citizen journalist. On the other hand, he has been deliberately transferred to a prison where he is more likely to suffer fatal violence at worst. It is only a matter of time before Sweden is where Britain is today. We have already seen how the government allows Islamists as ministers and that Islamists can influence Swedish politics and the Swedish judiciary. Swedes are convicted even though they have only used their constitutional right to speak. The government is blackmailing private companies to censor. At EU level, the government is involved in building institutions to counteract free speech. Public service is used as a propaganda channel rather than a knowledge channel. The government has also announced anti-democratic constitutional changes. Mr President, I would like to I find it horrifying that the Swedish Government is passively witnessing what has happened in the UK. But I understand why because Sweden is also moving in this direction.
i-927a4619b555a0f0-80	Mr President, I would like to Respect for human rights is something that unites Sweden and the United Kingdom. We work closely together in the EU on human rights issues, for example in relation to the human rights situation in a number of countries. Together, we are pushing for a common and clear voice on the serious civil and political rights situation in a very large number of places. The UK is often ranked high in international investigations on the principles of the rule of law, corruption and press and freedom of expression and has an independent and professional legal system. I do not believe that the legal process referred to by Jeff Ahl demonstrates that the fundamental principles should have been abandoned. It is consistent with British law to impose a reporting ban on media in specific cases where reporting could affect ongoing court proceedings. It is not exceptional in British law enforcement to impose restrictions on the media to report certain cases. If Jeff Ahl now has Poland and Hungary as role models, with their limitations on the media, their new legislation and so on, and believes that they are the real democracies, I think the Swedish people understand that this is a debate that is moving in some other kind of reality that Jeff Ahl lives in.
i-927a4619b555a0f0-83	Mr President, I would like to Tommy Robinson used his constitutional right to act as a citizen journalist. He was out of court. He didn't interfere with the trial and didn't affect the trial. He only reported on the trial. He was arrested and then sentenced record time to 13 months in prison. So he has done nothing but use his freedom of expression. This is what the Swedish government thinks is something to shrug its shoulders about. .................................................................................................................................... Human rights sound great, but you are abusing the concept. You are also abusing the word. Democracy, because you do not understand the meaning of it. You use that word to justify your anti-democratic tendencies and to motivate the things you do to restrict freedom of expression and democracy. I can see that the panic of the globalists is complete. For those of us who are interested in history, what you are making follows a known pattern. The repression of opinion will be more widespread. But the more ugly the methods you take, the stronger the democratic and nationalist movement will be. You will be judged hard by history. You will be remembered as anti-democrats who fought against your own people. You will be remembered for letting people into Europe who do not belong here. You will be remembered for launching massive system collapses in different countries and for trying to dismantle the nation states. But I note that the wind cover is complete. We democratic nationalists are winning, and you anti-democratic globalists are losing – hence your panic. Tommy Robinson and others will be remembered as those who dared to stand up and even were prepared to be thrown into prison for the right of the people to democracy and freedom of expression. In the end, the people will also regain their right to democracy and freedom, because democracy always wins.
i-927a4619b555a0f0-87	Mr President, I would like to I will do everything I can in this election campaign to ensure that those who have the kind of opinions expressed here by Jeff Ahl will have no influence. These are racist and extremist views and a completely distorted view of what democracy and human rights are. I think this is scary. Right now there are people with a different skin color who are not to come in or who are to be thrown out. Maybe next time it's people who look like me who don't fit in anymore and are going out. It's a dangerous situation we're in. A democratic society depends on respect for freedom of expression and opinion. As few other countries, we are at the top of these things, just like Britain. That's it. If Jeff Ahl instead thinks that Poland and Hungary are role models, that demonstrates my point. Respect for freedom of expression is a prerequisite for individuals' opportunities to participate in political processes and engage in societal issues. Respect for freedom of expression and opinion is also a prerequisite for enjoying a range of other rights and freedoms. For us, people have equal value. All people have human dignity and should be respected on that basis. The Government has also made clear its intention to pay attention and act against unlawful restrictions on freedom of expression. We do this both in multilateral fora and in bilateral relations. We will continue to stand up for human rights – within Sweden, in the EU and in all other multilateral contexts.
