i-0e52bb4270e420b7-6	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by calling for the proposal to be rejected and for reservation 1. Then it is here, this parliamentary year's last debate on economic policy. It can be said that we are in a great position in many ways. The economic cycle has gone up strongly in Sweden but also around large parts of the world. Swedish export companies are going at high speed. Tax revenue is falling in and at a high rate, partly because people have work to do and partly because companies are doing so well. This development is amazing and something we all in here should be very happy about. But there is another development that does not point upwards but points downwards. I would like to remind you of this, because economic policy is basically about being able to do what is essential in order to solve the social problems that exist so that we can live in a secure society that stays together and that can continue to grow. Mr President, I would like to Only the other day we again received reports of gang shootings, where several people fell victim to the senseless violence. Today, parents cry that their children have passed away. We have almost gotten used to these reports, these events, but we must never do that. We see that many girls in Sweden today feel vulnerable, insecure and worried about the gross sexual violence and harassment at festivals or when they go home one late night. Insecureness has increased in Sweden in recent years. We see major integration problems. There are many things that work; there are many who are born in another country who go to work every day and contribute to the common. But much points in the wrong direction. Honorary oppression is increasing. Moral policemen are more than they were a few years ago. The language is still a big problem for many women who have been in Sweden for 10, 15 or 20 years, as men often dominate their everyday situation. These integration problems have increased and are something to be taken seriously. Unfortunately, we also see, Mr President, that the results for many children and young people in school are going in the wrong direction and that many are not eligible to go to high school in the autumn. I do not want to black out or paint, but I note that we have major problems. And our exercise, which we put on Parliament's table just a few weeks ago, prioritises tackling the acute problems. It is about resources, but it is also about reforms. Let me tell you something about our proposals. We want to increase the security of society. This requires more police officers, and if we are to have more police officers, we must be able to finance that reform. It's not enough to talk about it. We want the police to have more money and the important work of the police to be upgraded. We also want to do the police training again. We want it to be paid for, but we also want it to be divided into more parts so that we can find police officers in external service more quickly. It will increase security. We want to get rid of penalty discounts for rape. I do not know if you have read the many sentences that have come recently, where men who have committed many different rapes actually get a lot of discounts. The words penalty discount and amountrab that we should delete from Svenska A kademien's glossary, if they are there. Unfortunately, they are in society. We need to deal with the problems that exist, and we do so in our exercise. We also spend a lot of resources on the school. All children in all areas of Sweden, whether they live in Vivalla, Dorotea or Bjuv, will gain the knowledge they need to survive. This requires more hours in mathematics and more hours in English and Swedish. Children must bring what is needed. We will also have high quality in school. Therefore, we have a knowledge contract that gives all children opportunities – the same opportunities. Equal for all! We are clear about tackling integration problems. Let me stay here for an extra minute. There is no quick fix to solve the major integration problems that Sweden is now facing, but there are four important things that need to be done to make integration work. The first is to have a tight migration policy for the years to come. We cannot accept as many people as we are right now. Sweden today receives as many asylum seekers as we received on average every year from 2000 to 2012. We're just below it, but it's basically the same level, plus a large family migration. We will not be able to do that in the years to come if we are to achieve integration. That's the most important thing for integration, according to the Moderates. The second is about demands. Secondly, the requirement to learn the Swedish language. This is the key for women to be able to live free lives in Sweden, and that is the key to getting into the Swedish labour market. On the one hand, it is required to adapt to the requirements of the Swedish labour market. We have to expect more of everyone who comes here. The third is more roads to work. We in the Alliance want to expand the RUT. It was and is an important reform, and we can make more of it. We in the Alliance also want to introduce apprenticeships. We call it an entry job. You could call it something else. The point is that more people can get the first job through an apprenticeship. They receive slightly lower wages for a limited period of time but also a chance to move from grants to work. The fourth, which is very important for achieving integration, is that it must pay better to work. From the Government Office, a report just a few weeks ago showed that it still does not pay for families where both parents are unemployed and have income support to take a job. You just go back on going to work. We cannot have that in a country that has been built strongly out of effort. Therefore, we moderates want to reduce the tax on low incomes but also introduce a premium ceiling that prevents contributions from being stacked on each other. These, Mr President, are some of the reforms that we are prioritising in the coming years. We show in the Spring Movement how we intend to finance this and that we have the resources for it. I think that all parties should do this – explain how to finance the investments that are now being promised for the elections. We are convinced that the negative trend can be reversed. We do not just need strong economic development. We also need a development in which integration is moving in the right direction, where school results are moving in the right direction and where security is increasing. But resources and reforms are needed, and we are prepared to do that. Finally, a brief brief on government policy. Now, after four years, we have come to the conclusion: EUR 60 billion in increased taxes, EUR 100 billion in increased expenditure, fewer police officers than in 2014, despite the dramatic increase in insecurity, longer care queues and – particularly worrying – longer queues for children – and youth psychiatry, even though we know that so many young people feel so bad. Fewer police officers lead to a lack of security throughout Sweden. Finally, the problems of integration have increased in these years. It is possible to reverse the trend, but it will require a new government and a new Prime Minister.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-27	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats' budget options address three issues that are extremely important for us and for voters: migration, security and health care. We have seen how the migration-related costs during both this and the previous parliamentary term have increased and increased and increased. It is of course the case that this policy, which the other seven parties have deliberately chosen, has pushed away and continues to crowd out other urgent efforts. Everything always has an alternative cost. We have seen in the ordinary budgets as well as in the amending budgets that there are no sacred cows at all, with the exception of the Migration Agency and their activities. The right of asylum does not imply a right to choose the country of asylum itself. Sweden should stand up for the right of asylum in cases where Sweden is the geographically closest safe country, not otherwise. We are not going to distribute permanent residence permits at all. We are going to put an end to the hugely costly, and so inefficient, so-called labour market policy measures. We shall have a means-tested labour migration of qualified workers, or to jobs where we have a shortage of labour, of people who want to come to our country and work and do the right thing. There should be clear paths to Swedish citizenship for those who so wish and who make an effort, but it should be a privilege, not a right. If you are not a Swedish citizen, you should not have access to Swedish welfare. Social security schemes and state transfers shall not be used by nationals of other States. It is not a reasonable order we have today. The Swedish state has primarily a responsibility for the Swedish citizens. In future mandates – nota bene, periods in plural – Sweden will need to conduct an active and ambitious return policy. Mr President, I would like to Police density in Sweden has decreased gradually over the last ten years. So, as the government does, focusing only on more training places, when we are not filling up the training places we already have today, is, of course, inadequate. Anyone should be able to understand that. If we are to attract more people to the police profession, we must strengthen the working conditions and attraction of the police profession. Yes, it costs some money, but the alternative — letting insecurity and lawlessness spread — risks becoming even more expensive. It can be expensive to be cheap. We, the Swedish Democrats, are budgeting for tangible wage increases. This is, of course, a matter for the social partners, but perhaps it is the experienced officer in external service, who, during inconvenient working hours, is serving in a risky area, who should have the lion's share of that salary increase. We will, of course, abolish the so-called youth discount. We will abolish the automatic parole after two thirds of the sentence. Overall, we're going to have a longer sentence. And we need to strengthen the whole chain of justice: police, prosecutors, the judiciary and so on. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is at the bottom in terms of the number of care places per capita, far behind comparable countries. The result is growing care queues, where people literally die waiting for treatment or surgery. We need to establish a patient rights guarantee that strengthens the patient's legal status vis-à-vis the county council to which we belong and increases the county council's obligation to offer care and treatment to someone else – preferably not but also abroad if necessary – if our own capacity is lacking. To achieve this, the government governance of health care needs to be stepped up. We need to strengthen health and care professions, invest in staff and allow employees to further train themselves on paid working hours in order to strengthen their own position in the current workplace as well as in the labour market overall and, of course, in the long run, also their salary. We need to eliminate involuntary part-time and involuntary shared tours for civil servants. Unlike some other parties, which claim to pursue these issues, this is something we are also budgeting for. This costs money-- that's it. We are prepared to make that priority. The government isn't. Mr President, I would like to This afternoon's vote gives the so-called opposition parties in the Alliance a very last opportunity to put an end to this government's economic policy. Then the election movement begins. I, for my part, will devote a not insignificant part of this electoral movement to explaining to the voters exactly how disastrous this government has actually been. Criminal taxation has been introduced on ordinary people's already valued savings. They have stood and watched as the care queues grow and grow and then introduce a tax on health care, which will lead to the care queues growing even more. The assistance allowance for disabled children has been cut to finance further mass immigration to Sweden. It has abandoned everything that even comes close to order in migration policy by granting residence permits to 9 000 adult Afghan men, who lack protection needs and who also lied about their identity. The whole term of office has been devoted to an attempt to dismantle large parts of Swedish welfare by closing down well-functioning and popular schools, with devastating consequences if it had become a reality, which fortunately did not happen. I will tell you about this, and while I am doing so, I will tell you how you, who do not belong to the opposition or to the government base but simply put yourselves on the sidelines, have not lifted a single finger to stop this government throughout this term of office. For my part, I can make no other assessment than that none of your old blocs is to be regarded as a government-worthy alternative. You simply have not acted in a way that inspires trust. September 9th will be exciting. The days thereafter will be even more exciting. Having said that, I would like to take this opportunity to wish a pleasant midsummer to the President, the members of the committee and anyone else who might listen and look at this. Of course, before I forget, I would also like to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-48	Mr President, I would like to Government competence, Oscar Sjöstedt talks about. I think like this: a party that wants to be taken seriously must also have a policy that can be taken seriously. Most may not read the Swedish Democrats' budget from last autumn, and perhaps not the spring exercise either. But it's a hocuspocus budget in a lot of ways. What do I mean by that? Well, it is unrealistic and contains savings that are unrealistic because it would be completely impossible to implement them in the short term. If you come to the Swedish Parliament and you thunder and fight with all parties, except your own, of course, you must at least have a policy that holds together. When I read your budget, Oscar Sjöstedt, I see a few things that still amaze me. I thought you might be able to explain a few simple things. I have every sympathy for criticising this government's labour market policy. But to cut off all labour market policies to finance all the promises that you and your party make to the Swedish people is in the short term completely unreasonable. It is not possible to remove all labour market policies in Sweden in one or two years. I know that you have a few billion more skills, but it will not meet the needs that exist. You are removing all labour market policies and new start jobs. According to your budget, you cut employment services by 70% in three years. I agree that Arbetsförmedlingen is inefficient, but then someone else has to do a certain job. So it will cost money. This is unreasonable funding. These are just a few examples; I can take another one. You will remove the establishment allowance. You can certainly do that, but what happens then? The people who have been granted a residence permit must have something to live off the first few years. So they will have to live on support, so the cost remains. My question to Oscar Sjöstedt is therefore: when is it time for the Swedish Democrats to present a budget that actually holds together and can be feasible?
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-55	Mr President, I would like to I do not share, perhaps not surprisingly, the assessment that these would be unrealistic savings. We're making big savings– that's right – but I'm a little surprised to get a line from the Moderates about our criticism of government labour market policy. It's a little surprising. That's why I'm looking for the words here. I wasn't really prepared for this, because I thought we were a little more on the same track. Labour market policy has been extremely costly. I think we share that assessment fundamentally. For me, it would have had to cost quite a lot of money if it had delivered results in the end. The problem is, it doesn't. If you look at all the programmes that we have – start-up missions and so on – you can see that there is an extremely small proportion of those who participate in those who end up in a real job afterwards. I think the figure is somewhere around 5%. If the figure had been 85 or 90 per cent, it would have had to cost money, but now it is only 4.5 or 6 per cent– somewhere there, but I will not swear on it. With this in mind, we are making huge savings. I do not think it is unrealistic. I think we should close the Employment Service as it looks today. I would like to sit down with Elisabeth Svantesson and her colleagues and discuss this. There is, of course, a majority in favour of this policy in this House. If we are to implement this in the next parliamentary term, we will have to gather a majority for it. I would like to discuss the details of this. I think we should shut down Arbetsförmedlingen. I think we should close down the majority of the programmes that only cost money and do not deliver in the end. I thought we were in agreement there, but it seems that we may not be, unfortunately.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-59	Mr President, I would like to Oscar Sjöstedt not only wants to make small savings and cut some, but wants to close everything. He wants to close 100% of new jobs, which have proved to be the most effective of all the efforts we are making in labour market policy. These are people who, for various reasons, may not come back after a sick leave. They will then receive support to come back in. It's the most effective thing. You know, taking away what works, it's stupid. Removing 100% of labour market policies is about as stupid. There are plenty of things you can do again, but the resources will be required. You can do better things, but the resources will be required. But you're taking the resources away. What do you put them on instead? Let me give you a few examples. It sometimes sounds like you want to strengthen the work line, but you make it less profitable to work. You raise unemployment benefit, housing allowance, sickness benefit and maintenance allowance. You want to reintroduce the custody allowance and introduce a cash allowance to everyone who gives birth. They're going to get 20,000 kroner each. All these elements together will reduce employment. This doesn't make any sense. You're making savings that are unrealistic. They would not be implemented on 1 January 2019 if your budget were to win. In addition, you have a budget that weakens the work line. It does not stick together in the long run either, because if you weaken the work line, there is no money for what you want to talk about so much: security, welfare and so on. No, it's a hocuspocus budget. Come back to the Swedish Parliament with a serious budget with serious reforms and serious funding! The budget we are discussing now is certainly not serious.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-64	Mr President, I would like to Let's just calm down a little bit. Elisabeth Svantesson claims that we make it less profitable to work. We are doing a massive tax cut of SEK 20 billion on labour income to make it more profitable to work. So it is 20 billion in tax cuts for mainly low and middle income earners. For those who also pay government taxes, it becomes a smaller sum. This will make it more profitable to work. I do not understand where Elisabeth Svantesson's conclusions come from at all. I do not buy the claim that tax-funded forms of employment – call them entry-level jobs, new start jobs or anything else – are the most effective. I think that the most effective thing is to invest in small businesses, because they are the ones who are hiring. Then we make it cheaper to hire by reducing the employer's contribution. We'll do it, and then we'll get more jobs. Then we'll get real jobs, too. Then we will not have these tax-subsidised fake jobs. I am absolutely convinced that it is more effective than spending taxpayers' money on subsidising fake jobs. I'm sure of it. The forms of what you call start-ups or entry jobs, which we call apprenticeships, are not entirely agreed, but I think it would still be possible to get a majority in this House for such reform. I think that would also play a major role. Then I seriously think that we should do something about Arbetsförmedlingen. It's a dysfunctional authority. It's a colossus that costs tens of billions every year and doesn't deliver in the end. We can't have that order. We must have more respect for taxpayers' money. In other countries different types of reforms have been made to their respective employment services, and we know that they have been quite successful. We can learn from others, look at their example and open to several actors. I believe that such things are far more effective than these tax-subsidised fake jobs.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-69	Mr President, I would like to All young hearts beat for the future that is ours. When too many people in Swedish society contribute to spreading pessimism, anxiety and blackwashing, even in this House, one has to turn to the most popular of all popular culture. The ones I quoted are the unthreated kings of Swedish preschools, Samir and Viktor, and their World Championship song Put Your Hands Up for Sweden. There is every reason to feel optimistic and confident in the future in Sweden – don't let anyone beat in you anything else! Sweden is in many ways in a fantastically interesting situation, because we have for a long time been a combination of a welfare country and an economic success story. We are well equipped for the future that is ours in view of our technology optimism, our education system and our entrepreneurial spirit. There is reason for optimism. We have done too little in the last parliamentary term to take advantage of this basic positive situation for Sweden. We have increased the tax on the companies that create the jobs of the future. We've raised the tax on soon to say everything that moves. We have avoided taking the large and broad structural approaches that our country needs. But this does not change the fact that we are in a very exciting position in an international comparison. When I look back at the term of office, I am reminded not only of Samir and Viktor but also of an old Social Democratic election slogan. Although this has been a term of office where important progress has not been made and important steps forward have not been taken, there have also been things in the last four years that there is reason to be proud of. It is good that we have an energy agreement in place. It would have been even better if we had also had long-term rules for biofuels and the like, but it is good that the Energy Commission came to a conclusion. It is good that we have now agreed on the reinforcement of defence appropriations. Five parties together have begun that journey. But much more would be needed. It is also good that we are now in fact agreed, from the Swedish Democrats to the Left Party, that we need to invest more in the Swedish police as part of making the country safer. Here, too, much more is needed. It's been talk but not as much workshop. Nevertheless, policy is now heading in the right direction. Nevertheless, we need a number of structural reforms where we have not taken steps forward. The only proper attempt that has been made in recent years was the housing negotiations that ultimately did not lead to much at all. It's bad. After the election, it would be good if one could agree on a long-term and modernised Swedish housing policy, because the poorly functioning Swedish housing market is increasingly a real problem that costs in economic development. The same can be said of the tax system, which is increasingly out of date, and the labour market, which, although we are at the peak of a boom, does not allow in hundreds of thousands of people, not least new arrivals. We need to create new ways into work. In the motion put forward by the Center Party – I take the opportunity to call for approval of the Center Party's reservation 3 – there are a number of proposals that we have presented in the spring, in addition to the structural approaches that we see necessary. In addition to broad agreements on future taxes, the labour market and the housing market, we believe that we need to implement a number of reforms that can be rolled out as early as this autumn. We want rural freedom reforms that remove obstacles to building and obstacles to development. It is about forest owners being able to use their resources to create the jobs of the future. It is a question of completely removing the beach protection as it stands today in large parts of the country and thus contributing to local development power. We want to see results for the environment and have made proposals during the spring for a green deduction for households so that it will be very easy for homeowners and others to contribute to green conversion. It is about them having access to subsidies for certain things in a very simple way – solar panels on the roof, batteries in the basement, charging poles in the driveway and the like. We also have offensive proposals for green aviation fuel and green conversion of Swedish aircraft. The most effective way to make a change here and now is to make sure that the fossil fuel that we think almost 100 per cent of Swedish aircraft is gradually replaced with the green aviation fuel that, with a wise industrial policy, could also be produced here in Sweden. We also see great needs in making healthcare more accessible. We want a primary care reform. Swedish nurses deserve new career paths. It should be possible to develop both in terms of responsibility and in terms of salary for nurses in Sweden. When the Center Party talks about hope and belief in the future, it applies to all parts of Sweden, also places where many seem to have given up. With regard to what we call vulnerable and particularly vulnerable areas, we note that the Swedish Democrats want to demolish these areas. The Prime Minister could not even rule out the use of Swedish military to overcome the problems. The Center Party sees another way. We have presented what we call the Falkenberg model, where we start from the only area in Sweden that has been on the list of vulnerable areas but is no longer there because we have seen improvements. It is a holistic approach that focuses on urban development, urban development, education, pathways to jobs and civil society. It sounds simple, and it is also if you take the holistic approach and make sure that people living in these areas cease to feel excluded. We have shown this in an area – the municipality happens to be centered. But this must be spread. Hope and faith in the future should be the way forward for all of Sweden. Mr President, I would like to There are a number of risks in both the Swedish and international economies. We see the early signs that we may be at the top or even have the top behind us when it comes to the Swedish boom. Construction decreases relatively substantially. Small business and entrepreneurial barometers have emerged saying that those who create the Swedish jobs, those who have been rewarded with higher taxes in recent years, are starting to feel increasingly worried. Women's start-ups are significantly reduced. This, together with the construction, changes that we see in unemployment forecasts and so on, indicates that we are likely to have the economic peak behind us. Internationally, there are a number of risks. Perhaps the worst thing globally is what happens to the trade war and how it affects a small and internationally exposed Swedish export industry and Sweden as an export nation. A little closer, at the European level, it is clear that Brexit is the greatest cloud of concern. We don't know what's going on. The deadline for the negotiations is ticking ever closer. This is something that is more or less paralysing British society. You can read British newspapers. That is soon the only thing people are talking about. How to act on Brexit's different stages and aspects? I read a long article, Mr President, which was just about how to deal with pets transported between France and the United Kingdom. Only that would probably require a number of years of negotiations. This is a big mistake. When you ask the British in opinion polls, a majority says they are in favour of what you call a soft Brexit. If the British had had the chance to vote again, they would probably have voted in favour of remaining in the Union. All the sane assessors say that this is something that is very dangerous for a country. Even Great Britain, with perhaps the most competent civil servants in the world, does not seem to be able to cope with it. That's what all sane assessors say. The Swedish democrats, on the other hand, say: That seems nice. Shouldn't Sweden do the same? The outer party in Swedish politics, the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party, want to leave the EU, despite what is now being seen in the UK. At least the Left Party and Ulla Andersson have sensed to be silent on the matter. The Swedish Democrats, on the other hand, played this as one of the most important electoral promises as late as this week. We would like to see a svexit vote in the next parliamentary term with all the soup that it would bring. Sweden would become a playing field for Russian Internet trolls and other foreign interests. It would, no matter how it goes, be a very painful process for Sweden with a lot of uncertainty and uncertainty. And we would paralyze, unclear for how long. How, Oscar Sjöstedt, can this be proposed in the right mind as one of his strongest electoral promises? How can that be the offer you make to the Swedish people? We got a long rapsodi from Oscar Sjöstedt about what he was going to talk about in the election campaign. Svexit was not one of the points. But your party leader has just said that this is one of Sweden's most important election promises. This would be totally irresponsible for a party that aspires to remain in the Swedish parliament. Yet the Swedish Democrats choose this way – why?
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-94	Mr President, I would like to I can't help asking for a line. It has been a long time since we had an EU discussion. You and I were actually sitting as late as yesterday at the same meeting, Emil Källström. We had discussions with a couple of government secretaries on the grounds that the European Commission has presented its proposal for a so-called long-term budget. In this proposal, they think that it is a great idea for the Swedish EU fee to increase by SEK 15 billion annually. I think it's a bad idea. There you have some of the answer to your question in your speech. It costs money. Sweden is one of the single largest net contributors. So we first pay a large amount of money, which will grow even further if the European Commission gets what it wants, and then we get a little money back at the other end. It's a pretty bad deal for the Swedish people. That's a partial answer to the question. It goes deeper than that, because this is of course more complex. We can look at a country like Norway. I don't know what the picture of Norway is like. Is it that the people are on the brink of ruin, that it is famine, pestilence and total misery, and that the country is completely collapsing? After all, they pay a much smaller fee than we do to be a member of the EEA, the internal market. But they otherwise have unlimited and as free trade with the EU countries as Sweden does. I do not know if Norway is the nightmare country, as one thinks of in the first place. At least I don't.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-98	Mr President, I would like to First, let us state that the Swedish people are wiser than the Swedish Democrats. We have therefore voted on EU membership once. A majority voted in favour. Since then, the image of the Swedish people of the EU has only improved. We have very strong support for Swedish EU membership. It has also increased in recent years when there has been some turbulence, to say the least, in Europe. This is a dead end for the Swedish Democrats. We heard two arguments. That was partly the cost, partly Norway. Let's take them in turn. Of course it costs money for a rich country, such as Sweden, to be in a Union. Someone has to pay the bill. It looks like rich countries pay more than poor. I think that is a rather sound principle. This was the case when we entered the European Union. We went into it with open eyes. But of course we will try to reduce that cost as much as possible. That's why we're negotiating. That is why we broadly agree in Swedish policy to try to build alliances within the EU to bring down the cost increase. That's how you work as a member. You're acting from the inside. I just said in my speech that every healthy thinking person realizes that the Brexit soup is nothing for a country like Sweden. It is also obvious that every healthy thinking person should be critical of what Brussels makes up, as every healthy thinking person should be critical of what the Swedish Parliament in Stockholm is up to. It is about defending the bottom-up perspective, and we need to push those issues more strongly. But leaving the EU means nothing more than a painful divorce with uncertainty for a very long time. What Norway gets is to pay the cost while having zero percent influence. I think it is much better that Sweden continues to be involved. Svexit would be extremely dangerous for Sweden.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-104	Mr President, I would like to That is quite right: we have voted on EU membership once 20-25 years ago. However, the European Union that we are seeing today is not quite the same thing that we saw when Sweden went to a referendum, which would justify looking at it one more time. The EU was basically set up as a free trade area. That's very good. If it were only possible to continue with it, that is to say to have a trade union, a free trade area, without adding to this whole ambition to build a political union and a supranational political federation, neither I nor my party would have had any objections. But there are those who are pulling in another direction. If the basic idea had been retained and the EU kept as a free trade area, I would have been very positive about it. That also applies to my party. However, we are very critical of the tendencies and forces that are striving for a supranational political union that should have more and more to say about, while we elected members of the Swedish Parliament should have less and less to say about. It is a development that I am critical of. Mr Källström says that he thinks it is a sound principle that we have a redistribution in the EU. I think it's a very unhealthy principle. I think it is very unsound to take money from the Swedish taxpayers and give it to other states. I do not think that is respecting the Swedish taxpayers. The EU budget has swelled and swelled. Now they want it to swell even more, while I want it to reduce to the absolutely minimalistically necessary. The whole idea of redistribution, that is, that we take money from Swedish taxpayers and give it to other states, should be removed. I think it's unsound.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-109	Mr President, I would like to Fake news is something that is discussed a lot, but what Oscar Sjöstedt is trying to do may well be regarded as fake history – or forgery of history, they say well. The EU is a peace project. It began with a deep and very wise effort to build peace on a continent torn apart by war for centuries and millennia. It may seem far away now that we are writing 2018. However, it is only to be noted that with regard to the problems and potential conflicts that we see between the EU Member States today – minority issues in Hungary and Slovakia, what is now happening in the Balkans and so on – it is EU membership or the hope of EU membership that keeps the violence and differences down. The EU is, and has always been, a peace project, and that is still the basis. Free trade is very good, and the EU is also a huge free trade project. EU membership gives us access to and influence over the world's largest market. It is very good for Swedish companies and, by the way, the whole of Swedish society. Should the Swedish Democrats get through their demand for svexit, it would mean that Sweden this year and probably decades to come will be paralyzed exactly in the way we now see in the UK. Oscar Sjöstedt is concerned that the Swedish membership fee to the EU is increasing. It is a concern that I share, and we are politically broad in agreement on trying to reduce it. However, no membership fee increase would come close to the multi-billion-dollar amounts that it would cost to try to beat out how Sweden would leave the EU. That is why the Swedish people say by a large majority that we should remain and continue to develop our membership, and that is why the Swedish Democrats are wrong.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-114	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 4. Summer has been amazing, and when you look out on Sweden on a June day like this, you see a fantastic country. It is a country that is modern, equal, rich and prosperous in every way. Then at least I do the reflection: What has built Sweden so strong? In Social Democratic rhetoric and in Magdalena Andersson's world, it is the Social Democrats and workers' movement that has built Sweden strong. In my world, it is individual entrepreneurs who have built up companies, often in the post-war period, which are still international export successes. That is what has built Sweden strong. These are hardworking people who have risen up early every morning and gone to work who have contributed to our well-being. This is what has built Sweden strong. It is about openness to the outside world, that after the Second World War in the 50s and 60s Sweden had labour immigration and people came from Italy and then Yugoslavia to Sweden to work. It is an openness that means that the small company in Småland or the big company in Bergslagen export in an international market and is the winner of global competition. Now that we see in our House parties that want Sweden to leave European cooperation, it shows that the forces that have built Sweden are strongly threatened. Mr President, I would like to We are currently in a boom, and as politicians and decision-makers it is easy to get a little lazy and not see what lies behind the boom. What awaits behind the boom are dark clouds in the sky. We have major societal problems such as the climate issue, which, from the perspective of the Liberals, will require a green tax exchange and that we dare to do more things together at European level. We need to introduce a European carbon tax that really tackles the climate issue. We also have similar slow changes in our economy. Sweden as a nation of knowledge is actually losing ground. The number of patents in Sweden is falling much more strongly than in other countries. Companies' investment in research and development is decreasing much more in Sweden than in other countries. We see that the economy does not have the power that we can expect from an economy in a boom. As recently as two weeks ago, the company Izettle, you know, announced those who have the clever payment solution that many Swedish small businesses use, that they are leaving Sweden and will no longer be a Swedish company. Mr President, I would like to So what's the government doing at this point? The first is a broad arsenal of tax increases on entrepreneurship and labour. It introduces rules that make entrepreneurship difficult and that make it the only time an entrepreneur in Sweden is satisfied is when the government withdraws a proposal. It says a little about the social debate and about Magdalena Andersson's left-wing populism that the only time Swedish entrepreneurs are satisfied is when Magdalena Andersson is wrong and not when the government presents growth-oriented policies. Let me take a few examples. The government introduces employee options, which mean that employees in companies should be able to become partners in the company. This is the introduction of new tax rules that cannot be used, which now means that a number of growing Swedish companies do not use the new tax rules that were intended to make it easier for companies. We have skills demonstrations, where hardworking people, such as engineers and programmers who come to our country to work on large or small businesses and contribute to our welfare, are thrown out of our community because a paper is incorrectly filled. The employer has made a minor mistake, and the person who is to blame and is to be punished for the company's mistakes is the employee who needs to leave our country. It is no wonder that people are asking themselves how it is that one hand is voting through a high school amnesty for 9 000 people who have been refused their asylum application and the other hand is showing hard-working people where the only fault that has been committed is a trivial mistake made by the employer. It may be about having paid in 12 SEK for little in salary or having missed out on taking out an insurance policy. Our country has the world's highest marginal taxes on labour. One can think about whether it builds Sweden strong, whether it makes education pay and whether it makes it easier for global companies like Astra to recruit labour in a global market. Mr President, I would like to We see in the midst of this also increased divides in our country. We see an increased division between those who have work and those who do not have work. As a result, we see a deeper dependency on subsidies, that those who live on subsidies do not do so for a month or six months but year after year and end up in a situation of idleness where dignity disappears. The freedom and feeling of being part of the community disappears. Liberals say that it must pay better to work, not least for those who go from subsidies to work. We must have higher expectations of people to contribute to the community. If you get a contribution from the community, you're supposed to do a reward. Of course, education is the most important thing. The school is supposed to work, and the class trip is really going to start in the classroom. Anyone who needs the most support should receive the most support. But even those who have easy learning in school will live out their dreams and become what he or she wants. Knowledge school builds Sweden strong. Knowledge school builds a knowledge society in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to What built Sweden strong? Well, business, hard work and openness. If we are to build Sweden strongly also in the 2020s, it is about politics having to put the three parts first. Firstly, the conditions for entrepreneurship must be higher on the political agenda, and Sweden must have better economic conditions than any other country. Secondly, work should always pay off. We cannot stress enough the importance of the work. Thirdly, Sweden must be an open country. Sweden shall be fully part of European cooperation. That's what builds Sweden as a country strong, that's how Swedish companies build strong and that's what builds people strong.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-132	Mr President, I would like to I was going to continue in part the change of line I was involved in with Mr Källström just now, but not mainly with a focus on the EU yes or no because that issue is a little more complex. At yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Finance, we discussed the draft long-term budget presented by the European Commission a few months ago. The Commission wants to increase Sweden's EU contribution by the equivalent of SEK 15 billion annually. I'd like some clarity. As a Swedish taxpayer, one instinctively reacts to such a genuinely bad proposal. But when I have read the news, as you sometimes read, it appears that the Liberals are doing a completely different analysis. Jan Björklund says that the fee is justified, that the Liberals are prepared to invest more in the EU. I still wonder if there has not been a fuse in the liberal fuse box. Is it the height of Swedish liberalism in 2018 to increase the taxation of Swedish citizens in order to give more money to a non-elected supranational institution? Am I right or am I wrong? Let me get this straight. What is Liberals' view of the long-term budget proposed by the European Commission? Do you support the fee increase of SEK 15 billion per year, or do you not? If one is in favour of more supranationality, more federalism and less democracy, why must it necessarily be as expensive as possible? I can think of a thousand things that I would rather prioritise than an increase in the EU fee.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-137	Mr President, I would like to It is of course the case, Oscar Sjöstedt, that just as the Liberals in this House think we should keep the money 100%, we also think that the money should be kept 100% at European level. But when you start a discussion about what the EU should do in the future, you need to start by asking yourself what you want the EU to do in the future. What the EU has historically been doing too much is spending money on agricultural policy instead of growth-oriented policies. Instead of investment in research and development, rather than investment in infrastructure, too much money has been spent on regional aid and agricultural policy. What the Commission is now proposing is a start to a substantial reform of the EU budget. At that point, we are saying that we should initially discuss what the European Union should do and ensure that we push those issues with full force so that the European Union does the right thing. If this means that the EU spends more money on research and development, it also benefits Sweden to do so. There may then also be a reason for Sweden to pay for this. Here it is a completely different starting point in relation to what Oscar Sjöstedt has. I am not a nationalist in its negative sense, but I believe in international cooperation. I believe in European cooperation. In a small, open and export-dependent economy like the Swedish, all companies depend on being able to operate in an international market. It is therefore important for the European economy to go well. I was born and raised in Markaryd in southern Småland. The big company there, Nibe, which makes heat pumps, is exporting worldwide. Germany and Europe are the company's most important market. If Europe's economy develops well, it is good for jobs in Markaryd and in Sweden. That's the connection we make, but that's the connection you don't make.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-142	Mr President, I would like to Of course there's that connection. It's absolutely obvious. First of all, let us be clear that our biggest trading partners are Germany, Norway and the United States. Two of them are not in the EU. But it was a parenthesis. Of course there's a connection. But I honestly do not understand how this link in itself is linked to an increased Swedish EU fee of SEK 15 billion. It's completely bypassing me. Member Källström was previously involved in the large redeployment. Much of the money is not spent on research and development and what might have been good, but on redistribution from the somewhat richer states to the slightly less rich states. The large part of the EU budget is a large redistribution from states to other states. That is something we are critical of. There I would like to hear what the Liberals' view is. Reducing the large redeployment, as we want, can also reduce the EU budget. Reducing the EU budget will also reduce Sweden's EU contribution. Perhaps I would be a little less negative and skeptical about the whole project if it became a little cheaper. I would like to hear the Liberals' view of the large redistribution in the majority of the EU budget. Are we going to spend money on research and development in the EU? I can live with that. Liberals have made it clear that it is important for Sweden to join the Banking Union. This means, in the long run, that Swedish taxpayers will have to act as guarantors of banks in crisis in other countries. Our banks are stable and do well in stress tests. Greek and Italian banks – not so much. Why should Swedish taxpayers have to cover for them?
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-148	Mr President, I would like to This is how it is when you debate with the Swedish Democrats. Oscar Sjöstedt doesn't listen to what I'm saying. I have not said that we are in favour of Sweden's EU contribution increasing by 15 billion. Let me be clear on this point. I have said that we should first discuss what the European Union should do. Let us first argue that Europe should pursue a more growth-oriented policy. If it is the case that the EU does so, let us see if Sweden can contribute more – if that means that the EU economy becomes stronger and thus that the Swedish economy becomes stronger. 60% of Sweden's exports go to the EU area. We are completely dependent on the European market. The better for Europe and the EU, the better for Sweden. What world do we live in? We live in an extremely globalised world. The competitors are the United States, Asia, South Korea and Japan. These are growing economies. The European economy is increasingly difficult to resist. Is the answer, then, to pumping money into agricultural policy? The answer is no. Let us have a more growth-oriented policy. When the continent of Europe's economy, the world's largest economy, becomes more competitive, there is no country that benefits more from it than Sweden because 60% of our exports go to the EU. Then we as politicians need to ask ourselves the question: what do we want with this Europe? Are we going to continue, as we are now, and stand outside and watch, or do we want to contribute to a new and more competitive Europe? Do we want to be fully part of European cooperation? We say yes to this very clearly, because we are a liberal party that believes in openness, modernity and growth, and we believe that we solve common problems by working together. We are the direct opposite of what the Swedish Democrats represent.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-154	Mr President, I would like to I'll meet you when it's light out, but still it's obscured. We have great clouds of concern in the form of countries that are moving in authoritarian direction, currents in country after country that want to dismantle democracy and human rights to replace it with something else. We have democracies that separate children from their parents and lock them up. We have other countries that keep children separate from their parents with laws and rules. We have countries that are leaving cooperation like the EU, and we have forces that want to leave cooperation like the EU. It's like you don't know our story. It is like we do not understand where Europe comes from and why we have European cooperation. If we had not had EU cooperation, we would have had to invent it, and we should not have scattered the legacy of Adenauer, Schuman and de Gasperi. This can also have major consequences for Sweden and the Swedish economy in the future. We have heard several speakers earlier here pointing out the importance of Swedish exports to the EU, the importance of our cooperation and the importance of its functioning. We are also seeing a beginning trade war that can have major consequences. This will require every government to have high on its agenda. I also hope that we in this House can work together widely to ensure that Sweden becomes a strong voice in order to maintain the collaborations in which we exist and develop them, not to dismantle them. Today is the last day of the parliamentary term and year. It's graduation time. It's grades in grade four, if you like. It is time to evaluate the opposition's options but, above all, to look at the merits of government policy. As far as the economy is concerned, there have been good conditions, a strong and sustained boom. The Alliance's job reforms have largely remained in place and provided a good basis for a growing economy. We have a good country with a high level of education, natural resources, innovations, enterprising entrepreneurs, an enormous commitment to civil society, many who go to work in the dark, and we have high trust between people – the hidden access of the economy. The government has done a few things that have been good. Internationally, good efforts have been made to bring about the Paris Agreement – where Sweden has played an important role – and Sweden has worked nationally on the important climate law that was prepared and adopted in broad agreement. More resources have been spent at the school. The profession has been expanded, which has been good. Provision is made for CSN loans for driving licences. There has been continued work on standardised health care processes and constructive energy talks. But on the whole, it's extremely meagre. Much of the good economic development has taken place despite, not thanks to, the government. If the government tries to sing a song like this on graduation day about joy and happy days, it sounds false. It is with the government that with a travel company that promises and sells a cruise to the continent but never really manages to leave port. It doesn't matter if you repaint the cab doors, hand out some free food tickets and offer free play on the shuffleboard if the ship is firmly moored with the tamps of passivity. The trip doesn't come from the government no matter how much it pulls the steamboat whistle. The rain of expenditure paid with increased taxes on virtues such as labour, generosity, progress and savings cannot hide the government's failure in its main task. The lowest level of unemployment was promised in Europe. Now the situation is worse - around a fifteenth place. More unemployed people are further away from the labour market than before. They said we'd have 10,000 more police employees. Now we have fewer police officers than when the term of office began – reduced police density. They promised everyone with the diagnosis of cancer care within four weeks. But not even half of the cancer that yields the most lives in Sweden, lung cancer, will receive treatment within six weeks. Care queues have more than doubled. And when welfare grounds sway, no free entrances, free bus cards, electric boat motor premiums, union fee reductions or building subsidies. Sweden is therefore paying a high price for the government's passive policy. The price is paid by those who do not get the chance to prove their worth in a work community, when the thresholds are too high into the labour market. It is paid for by the elderly, who must not break isolation and insecurity with a place in a retirement home. It is paid by those who are victims of crime, not least in the suburbs, who do not know whether the car that will take them to work is available or in flames. And it is paid for by all the fragile and vulnerable people who depend on LSS, who are in need of care but who have to wait in ever longer care queues. They cannot and Sweden cannot afford this another term of office. We cannot continue with a government that has great resources at its disposal but which is burying the talents. A passive policy needs to be replaced by an active reform agenda for Sweden, because we have the conditions. We have contractors ready to unleash their power. We have those who have come to our country who want nothing more than to contribute. We have parents who want the best for their children. We have healthcare professionals who are making enormous efforts. And we have an arsenal of Christian Democratic and Alliance reforms ready to be launched. We have reforms for jobs with vocational training, tax relief on work so that more jobs can grow and start-up jobs where you get the chance to learn the job at work. We have security reforms – 10 000 more police officers with higher wages and better conditions, half with clear local roots. We have reforms for families with flexible parental insurance, with parental support so that you can be there for your children with better finances. There was a note outside that could be signed with the question: What is the forgotten question of the election? I would say that the forgotten question of the parliamentary term is all those elderly people who do not get the chance to enter a retirement home, who do not get the chance to break the insecurity and isolation that many actually experience. We need to change this. We need to increase support for municipalities that build retirement homes, punish those who are unable to do what they are supposed to do and significantly raise a retirement home billion so that we get more retirement homes in place and also give older people the power and authority to make decisions about breaking loneliness. They should not depend on the power of authorities. There is also a need for improvements in the economy of older people, so that they can be asked for adapted housing, through increased housing allowances and tax relief for pensioners. We have the reforms for health care. We cleaned up after Göran Persson's care queues, and we can clean up after Stefan Lövven. We spend most of our resources on health care and care, much more than the government. But it is not just about money but also about reforms for quality and shorter queues and for us to get the available care places, which will enable us to reduce health damage and ensure that people receive treatment at the right time. We are expanding primary care so that you should not have to go to the emergency room as often as possible, but get the right care, at the right time and at the right time. We also need to have a large-scale home care system to stop the care carousel for the elderly, so that the care comes to the sick and fragile. When people can see that a lack of well-being is turned into a promise of welfare, trust can increase, which means so much to the economy. But that's not enough. It also requires a policy that sees the importance of civil society and that we also create welfare for our families, associations, assemblies and companies. It is the good communities that build Sweden strong, which do not breed hatred without faith in the future and which enable us to genuinely meet each other. There values are not a set of opinions but actions of expectation, forgiveness, understanding and love. And politics must give these communities oxygen, space and support. This may be especially true at a time when the dismantling of the human being can take place quickly. Mr President, I would like to It's time for change. We Christian Democrats have stepped in before when it has been empty and tired in the Government Office, and we have done so together with the reform force spelled the Alliance. It is time to replace this government with another – with a strong Christian Democrat element – in order to build a society of freedom without egoism and with solidarity without socialism.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-173	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by discussing an issue that has been discussed in recent days but which Elisabeth Svantesson did not raise in her speech. After all, it was the Moderates who introduced pensioner tax in Sweden, and the Moderates have repeatedly widened the gap between pensioners and wage earners. In autumn 2014, the Moderates, with the aid of the other bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats, prevented the new government from narrowing the gap. When the Moderates now claim to want to remove the pensioner's tax, for that was what Ulf Kristersson said in his summer speech a few weeks ago and that supplements the Moderates' motion in the Riksdag, it is not enough to close the gap. There is more than SEK 2 billion missing. My conclusion is that the Moderates are completely devoid of credibility on this issue. Mr President, I would like to It is almost four years since Sweden received a Social Democratic-led government. A lot has happened since then. Sweden no longer needs to receive crisis support for a high youth unemployment, tax cuts no longer rain on high-income earners and government finances no longer show a deficit of SEK 60 billion. After four years with a Social Democratic-led government, 300 000 more have a job to go to. The staff in schools, care for the elderly and health care have received 100,000 more colleagues. So many young people have a job today that we have to go back 16 years to see an equally low youth unemployment. With a surplus of 50 billion in public finances and a historically low public debt, Sweden stands ready to meet both economic shifts and growing welfare needs. This is the result of the determined work the government has been doing for almost four years. The big question now is what to do with the economic muscles the government has built up during this term of office. How are we going to use them in the coming years? There is no doubt that in this House there is an understanding that Sweden is facing major challenges, problems to be solved and opportunities to be exploited. Those who have spoken before me have pointed out that crime must be curbed, that care must be made more accessible, that care for the elderly must be given priority and that school results must be improved. All of this can be summed up by the fact that welfare needs to be strengthened in order for Sweden to be more secure. I agree. But none of them have a credible alternative for how to do it. The bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats speak of the need to prioritise, and their priority is clear and spelled down taxes. The total tax bencher plan for the five parties that have stood in the speaker's seat before me is SEK 100 billion, and most for those who earn the best. Priority is given to reducing taxes on high-income earners, but it is not possible to invest in welfare at the same time. Mr President, I would like to When the Moderates presented their Spring Budget Movement, they declared that the big question in the autumn elections is not who spends most on welfare, which is understandable because it is of course the Social Democrats, but how the investments are to be made possible. As a social democrat and chairman of the Parliament's Finance Committee, I cannot stress enough the importance of funding, especially given that the state funding of welfare will need to increase substantially in the future. When summarising the Moderate tables, one can quickly conclude that they don't spend more money on welfare than the government. On the contrary, their largest item of expenditure is a sixth job tax deduction of over SEK 20 billion. These 20 billion could have gone to train more preschool teachers, to hire more nurses in care for the elderly or to improve the working conditions of nurses in health care. But the Moderates want to spend over 20 billion on another job tax deduction and then put their hope in the financing of welfare. That's not good enough. The Swedish Democrats make a big point of caring about working conditions in healthcare. However, the large resources, namely 35 billion, go to reduced taxes, and welfare has to take the brunt of their tax-breeding ambitions. Despite their high tone on care and care, they want to implement savings in municipalities equivalent to 20,000 nurses. In connection with the Center Party's announcement of its spring budget, Annie Lööf announced that investment in health care employees is needed to increase security and create a closer care, which is urgent. But how can people expect some center-partist investments in health care when the party stands to cut the funding for county councils by SEK 3 1⁄2 billion? It is precisely the county councils that pay the nurses' salaries and provide for their working conditions. Nor are the priorities of the Liberals consistent with the way in which they conduct their economic policies. The school is first the name of their spring budget exercise, but in fact their great proposal is reduced tax on those who pay government income tax, i.e. those who have good income. If you merge all their tax cuts, you land at SEK 30 billion, and the distribution profile I, as a Social Democrat, can only be amazed at at at a time when we know that the gaps must be narrowed, not increased. Mr President, I would like to It is not tax cuts for the country's high-income Sweden needs. It is not with tax cuts that we stop crime, solve the shortage of human resources in health care or raise school results. To achieve this, we must invest in a stronger society and a more secure welfare. The only credible answer to increasing people's security, solving problems and taking advantage of our society's great potential and many opportunities is to strengthen our common society. This is the path that we Social Democrats are taking. Mr President, I would like to That is what we are doing this afternoon when we vote on our amending budget. Then we'll spend more resources on important areas – not in one or two years, but now this summer and autumn. The government continues to strengthen the police with more money for better equipment and protection. The Government prioritises increased security for our elderly by providing more resources for elderly care as early as this summer. The government also invests more than half a billion more in healthcare to increase accessibility and improve staffing. It is clear that the economic policies and priorities of the Social Democrats provide security for ordinary people. It is this priority that we have made during our term of office and that we are doing here today, and that is what sets out the way forward: a stronger society and a safer Sweden. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, this term of office has considerably strengthened the welfare of the government. There are 13 000 more people working in health care and 28 000 more in the Swedish school. During 2018, the level increase is SEK 35 billion. At the same time, the government has cleaned up public finances, and financial savings are now in line with the surplus target. Government debt has been amortised and is the lowest in decades. In the future, therefore, there is scope for important priorities and efforts on what is most important. There is scope to complete the Knowledgelift so that everyone who needs to be able to train to take one of the 100,000 job vacancies. There is room to train and hire more policemen to protect our safety in streets and squares. There is room to build and staff the hundreds of preschools, schools, health centres and retirement homes that are needed, as we will have more children in Sweden in the coming years while more and more people are getting older. We have created the economic muscles needed to build a safer Sweden. We do this by investing in our common solutions, in our welfare – not by dieting down and weakening society in order to reduce the tax burden on those with the highest income. Mr President, I would like to I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved. I would like to conclude by thanking the members of the committee and replacing them for their debate and cooperation during the previous term of office. I would also like to extend a great deal of thanks from the whole committee to the office, which has helped and supported us over these four years.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-197	Mr President, I would like to It was probably one of the most unserious speeches I have heard from a chairman of a committee for a very long time. It took six and a half minutes before the chairman of the Committee on Finance, who is a Social Democrat, came into social democratic politics. I notice that there are many people talking about moderate politics right now– so did I in my speech. If the President had listened, he would have heard that I was talking about the very problems I see and what we want to do about them. We presented a spring motion showing clear funding. Fredrik Olovsson claims that we are not doing this, but I would like to turn the question around. You are in government position, Fredrik Olovsson, and represent the Social Democrats. You've been in charge for four years. You use most of the time to mess up all the parties on our site instead of telling us what you want to do to deal with the problems that have grown strong in Sweden during the years that you have had responsibility. You don't even want to admit these problems and the seriousness of them. I am happy to talk about our tax cuts, because I am proud that a bus driver will get a five hundred more with moderate politics. I am proud that we are continuing to reduce taxes on pensioners. We can do this precisely because employment has increased strongly for many years. It was no coincidence that the jobs – in a fiery recession and the worst financial crisis since the 1930s – became 300 000 more, in recession! This is partly because we made it more profitable to work, and we want to continue to do so. And yes, Mr President, we give priority. We are giving priority to our reforms, and we will continue to talk about our policy with the voters. Oh, how I wish you could take responsibility for the policy that the Social Democrats have pursued, Fredrik Olovsson, and tell me a little more about the policy that you want to pursue, rather than unseriously lumping together the various expenses of four parties and doing as you just did.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-203	Mr President, I would like to It is strange that Elisabeth Svantesson, who wants to form a government with four parties, does not understand at all that in that case one needs to present a coherent policy– unless one wants us to expect as usual that all tax cuts in a bourgeois government will take place. This is what we have learned from history: there is no tax reduction that is prioritised over time, but everyone comes to the end. For a bourgeois government, it does not matter if the money is not enough. Instead, when the surplus is spent, you start to cut back, and when the cuts are not enough, you start borrowing. This is the story – time and again the same thing. I would therefore like to raise the issue of pensioner tax, which the government has started to lower but which the Moderates introduced. Time and again the gap between employees and pensioners widened. The Moderates voted against the reduction we wanted to make in autumn 2014 and stopped it together with the Swedish Democrats. Now they say they want to remove it, but the proposal they have put forward lacks SEK 2 billion for this to be possible. Just what Elisabeth Svantesson accused the Swedish Democrats of before – leaving holes in her budget – does Elisabeth Svantesson herself when it comes to pensioners. It is reasonable for a candidate for finance to have this question, and it is reasonable for a candidate for finance to answer it.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-206	Mr President, I would like to Absolutely, I'd love to. But first, I just want to remind you of one thing. The spring exercise that you intend to vote in favour of today, Fredrik Olovsson, contains no funding. All the electoral promises that you have given throughout the spring, there is not another crown in funding. It's in our spring exercise. With regard to the pensioner's tax, it may be good for the Social Democrats, who may end up in opposition this autumn, to know that the parliamentary investigation service miscounted 2 billion. We've been out telling you about this. Our promise stands firm. We will show in our election manifesto and budget in the autumn how to take steps to close the gap. Now Fredrik Olovsson has used so in two minutes to talk about our politics again, not to answer questions, but let me remind you that we see problems and challenges and take hold of them. That's what we do in our motion. We finance our promises and will come back both in our election manifesto and in the budget we are presenting this autumn. This can be trusted, and one can trust that we Moderates take responsibility for the whole, that we will solve problems and that we will make it more profitable to work, to strengthen welfare and pensions. We always put jobs and welfare before benefits. It is still very strange, Mr President, that it is so difficult for certain parties, especially the biggest, to talk about how to do it yourself and how to improve the problems that exist. Now I intend to use 30 seconds to wish Fredrik Olovsson a nice summer, even though we disagree. You can trust, Fredrik Olovsson, that we will return and that we will stand by our word. We will continue to reduce taxes; we think that is a good thing, both for those who work and make an effort and for those who have made an effort.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-211	Mr President, I would like to For the Social Democrats, it is of the utmost importance that everyone who can work will work. The big challenge to make this happen is to make sure to acquire the necessary skills. We want to continue with a knowledge boost for Sweden. We see major shortcomings in Swedish healthcare. Sweden's healthcare is likely to have the best medical results in the world, or among the best, but we have too long queues. It takes too long to get in touch with health care. That is why we want to invest in health care instead of reducing tax. It takes more people working in health care for this to happen, and that is why we want to invest in health care instead of reducing taxes. We see a great need for more housing in Sweden. Therefore, we invest in more housing, especially rental apartments with lower rents. This is the kind of policy that Elisabeth Svantesson wants to remove, because she prioritises reduced taxes instead. She believes that housing policy is solved by introducing market rents so that it becomes more expensive to live, but if people do not have to go from house and home, it actually becomes more expensive for the state with subsidies for people to cope with the increased cost. It is clear that we have great differences in policy. I think Elisabeth Svantesson was honest to say that she has miscalculated 2 billion. It remains to be seen how to clog that hole too. It is another tax reduction that reasonably requires further cuts and savings. I hope that Elisabeth Svantesson will have a nice summer with some rest and that she will then figure out how to solve this problem.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-215	Mr President, I would like to Tax cuts do not solve healthcare problems," said Fredrik Olovsson in a relatively infantile statement. That's the way it is, of course. That makes resources and real reforms. If you speak Olovssonska, you can ask the question: What does Olovsson think is the connection between tax increases and the availability of care? 60 billion in tax increases and more than doubled care queues – with the Olovssonian logic this would be a complete impossibility.
i-RbLayM8Php5J6yAQfLw6Yt	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jakob Forssmed! It is of course in this way that Swedish health care needs more resources to solve the problems we face. We have a growing and ageing population. Among other things, this will mean, and already means, that we have more and more people living with, for example, cancer diseases and diagnosis of cancer. It is a growing group that we need to help, take care of, nurture and cure. This will require more resources. Of course, the money we have provided for health care in recent years is not enough. We will have to continue to do this over the years to come, because otherwise the health care system will be worse. I find it strange that the bourgeois parties put so much hope in a queue billion. It feels like it is the very word queue billion that will solve the problems, but in fact it is not. This year we have contributed 4.7 billion to Swedish health care, and we are continuing today with an additional 600 million. It is considerably more resources than the money that only one heading can give to solve Swedish healthcare. Instead, the great priority of all bourgeois parties is reduced taxes. You don't invest enough in health care. You obviously believe that if you just lower taxes, resources will arise in some magical way and health care will be better. But that's not how it works. We therefore prioritise that more people should be trained to work in health care and that more should be employed to work in health care. This is the only way we can solve accessibility problems in Swedish healthcare, or for that matter improve care for the elderly and the school. We are prioritising welfare before reduced taxes because, of course, it can be seen in welfare if you choose reduced taxes.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-222	Mr President, I would like to Let's discuss health care. Let us discuss that you have failed your promise to the cancer patients that everyone would receive treatment within four weeks. That has not been the case. Let us discuss who has the best reforms. Fredrik Olovsson, you say we should have a headline. Let's call it a cue billion. Let's just make a doctor's call. We say large additions of resources to health care from the Christian Democrats, far greater than what the Social Democrats are proposing – 27 billion more this autumn over three years. Even if you count on your general investments in municipalities and county councils, we still manage more resources for health care and care. Let's say a place guarantee. Premiere those who can handle air in the system to drive forward innovative ways of working so that we do not have full hospital rooms in Sweden. Make sure that we invest in primary care so that we do not have an excessive burden on our emergency departments, where the elderly have to wait. It's the older ones who sit the longest in the emergency wards. Every 10 older people spend more than eight hours in the emergency wards. Under your watch! It is you who have been responsible for this development. Let's talk about it, Fredrik Olovsson. But that is not what my question was about. My question was that you, Fredrik Olovsson, made a connection between tax reductions and the quality of care. Then I ask: Is there a corresponding correlation between tax increases and the quality of care, i.e. that the quality of care increases with every tax increase? In that case, you have falsified this connection as many times as possible during this parliamentary term in terms of the availability of care with doubled care queues. We need more resources for medical care. It requires tough priorities. But it also requires more people to work. More people in work can come about with smart tax cuts, among other things. But there may also be a need to increase taxes and taxes on things that do not contribute to labour. During the time of the alliance government, resources were added to health care, while tax relief was made, for example, in the form of job tax deductions. There were more resources in fixed prices per capita per inpatient patient.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-227	Mr President, I would like to In the bourgeois years, the deficit of the state increased. They borrowed money for their tax cuts and other investments that they wanted to make. It was an unsustainable development. We've corrected it. I think it should be very clear that Swedish healthcare when it comes to the medical results – some of the quality of care is reasonably the results that you get – lies in the absolute world stop. Significant improvements can also be seen in recent years when it comes to major public diseases such as cancer, heart disease and stroke. It showed a report last night from SKL. But we continue to have problems with accessibility. That calls for increased resources. We choose these increased resources instead of reducing taxes. The Christian Democrats want to move money from county council to municipality. You're turning the government's old efforts into your own and new ones. It doesn't make health care any better. That does not mean that you get more resources. In fact, you also lack our large general government subsidy increases for those who pay for healthcare and school in Sweden, namely municipalities and county councils. Instead, you obviously choose a government base consisting of four bourgeois parties which, together with the Swedish Democrats – it will well be required for it to work at the end of the year – have tax cuts of up to SEK 100 billion on the programme. It won't last. It doesn't make health care any better. That doesn't make the school any better. This will mean letting the elderly down in care for the elderly.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-231	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to thank Fredrik Olovsson for his term of office and for his work under it. There has been good cooperation in committee. That is, of course, to a very large extent due to the President we have had. After four years of economic policy debates during this parliamentary term, I was going to invite the audience to a grandest visit. One of the areas that I and Fredrik Olovsson have discussed a few times is the plans for a kilometre tax, tax from a distance, truck tax, tax on heavy traffic – dear children have many names. This is an issue on which the Social Democrats, together with others, went to elections during the previous electoral movement. They said it was no rocket science to introduce such a tax. Then it turned out to be much more difficult and, above all, it turned out that the political price of a tax at a distance was quite high. The bill for not least the forest industry and other rural-based industries would be very tough. You pulled the emergency brake. But now this treasure, like Fågel Fenix, has materialized again, at least the plans for it. Several government representatives have reported on the matter over the past few weeks, but a little different. Mr Shekarabi said that there were no plans to make such a proposal. Per Bolund, the Minister for the Financial Market, said that these plans actually existed and that the Social Democrats and the Green Party would put forward this proposal. I have two questions for Fredrik Olovsson on this. The first question concerns the substantive question: is it really right to start taxing distances? Is that not a purely anti-rural policy? The second question is: can the chairman of the Committee on Finance clarify what is really going on? Are we planning to propose a tax from a distance, or are we not planning to propose a tax from a distance?
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-235	Mr President, I would like to Emil Källström and I have had many discussions, and we are apparently going to continue to the end with about the same issues. That's perfectly reasonable. As Emil Källström himself said, Ardalan Shekarabi and I have said that we have no such plans. Nor is there any such proposal in the budget that we are now discussing. Should you have a treasure from a distance? It is clear that there is a cost of distance already today. I'm quite fond of the idea of changing costs – it's my own idea – so that they also meet the foreign hauliers who are in Sweden and do not pay, for example, fuel taxes. For us, one important issue has been to get things right. There this question has been one that we have discussed and that this could contribute to just that. But, as I have said, we do not have such a proposal on Parliament's table now. Neither do the Social Democrats have such a proposal for the coming time. However, it is incredibly important that Swedish rural areas and rural areas are taken very seriously. We are now firing large resources to the municipalities around the country, and we are making sure that the state comes back to many places around the country. Many municipalities have not had, for example, government service offices. We also provide new resources for commercial services in rural areas. It is such efforts and many others that we will have to continue in the coming term of office. During the time that the Center Party was in government with the other bourgeois parties, we saw the Stockholm center increase. We've broken that one. And we will continue to have to ensure that we have a policy that holds the country together.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-241	Mr President, I would like to It sounded as if Fredrik Olovsson initially complained that this discussion was coming back. However, one explanation for this may be that it is not quite clear, and it has not been in any of these debates. If we take Fredrik Olovsson at the word, there are no such plans. It is perhaps news for the Green Party, which says that the government is actually planning this. But I guess you'll have to solve that internally in your very well-functioning cooperation. Fredrik Olovsson still leaves some openings here. Then let me come up with some tips on the way. Obviously it is a problem with rogue foreign actors rolling around on Swedish roads. But the solution to this problem should not be to punish all heavy traffic, including hard-working Swedish actors, and do so in such a way that the bill in plain text will be paid by the forest industry, rural traders and people and businesses in rural areas. Instead, the requirements concerning the environment, safety, working hours and so on should be tightened up and, above all, those who roll around on Swedish roads should really live up to this. There are far too few controls. This is one of the reasons why more resources are needed for the police. That is the way forward: to create fair conditions of competition without penalising entire sectors of Swedish industry, especially rural areas. I think few outside of Fredrik Olovsson's camaraderie agree that the Stockholm fixation is broken. There it needs to be taken much more to unleash development power throughout the country, and that is what we are going to elections on.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-245	Mr President, I would like to Of course this government is breaking the Stockholm fixation. It is very good and clear: Instead of a moderate billion, which went mainly to the richest municipalities in Stockholm, we have made sure to increase the support from the state to all municipalities throughout the country. Of course, this has been particularly important for small rural municipalities. We also see how we now re-establish the state administration so that you do not place all your business in Stockholm or other major cities, but are located throughout the country. It is incredibly important for the labour market in many localities, of course, but also for confidence that the state exists throughout the country and for trust between parts of the country. As I have said, we have also implemented a wide range of proposals on how to strengthen commercial and public services in rural and sparsely populated areas. We will have to continue with this; I am absolutely convinced of that. But in this perspective, Emil Källström has, again, unfortunately, sat down in a bad company – and this applies in quite a few areas. Our parties, like two peoples' movement parties, have a lot in common, but in the end it has become the case that the Centre Party turns to moderate centralists instead of working with us Social Democrats on a policy that can hold the whole country together. I want to wish Emil Källström a nice summer. He is happy to consider in what company he will be in the future – not least considering that some of that company are thinking about getting a really difficult position by getting on the knee of a party that neither Emil Källström nor I want to cooperate with.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-249	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a fantastic country that goes really, really well for. In international comparisons, Sweden is almost always high – in top five – in the vast majority of areas, such as the economy, employment, the rule of law, education, gender equality, democracy and effective efforts for climate and the environment. Last year we topped the climate index and were named the world's best country to run companies in the magazine Forbes. Just the other day, a new European measurement showed that we are the country in Europe that has the most effective climate policy. Sweden has a strong economy. Unemployment is falling, fewer are dependent on subsidies for their livelihoods and the employment rate is highest in the EU. More and more new arrivals are coming to work faster. Transparency and development go hand in hand. However, in the debate that is taking place today, perhaps not mainly in this House but outside it, many seem to believe the opposite. Many are competing to paint Sweden in dark colors to such an extent that facts are simply erased. Those who have to gain from that debate are the forces who want to rule with fear as weapons – fear of the new, fear of what you do not know and fear of each other. Of course we have challenges ahead, with gaps increasing, a well-being with great needs and climate change that needs to be met with even more policy. In order for unemployment to continue to fall and be the lowest in the EU, we need to continue to invest in those furthest from the labour market. We need more and easier ways to work, all over Sweden. More and growing companies are also creating new jobs throughout the country. We must continue to protect small businesses, and for rural areas to live, we need to continue to build roads, railways and housing, and to digitise and secure broadband across Sweden. That's how we create hope and faith in the future. Mr President, I would like to We are now at the end of our term of office and can see that we, with the Green Party in government, have turned major government deficits into large surpluses. We have once again decided on the largest environmental budget ever in Sweden, and with the Green Party in government, Sweden is a forerunner in the global climate work. Over the last four years, we have done, among other things, the following: We have introduced a Swedish climate law that makes it more difficult for future governments to ignore climate targets. We have put in place a Climate Policy Council. We have signed the Paris Agreement and given SEK 4 billion to the Green Climate Fund. We have agreed across party boundaries on 100% renewable electricity by 2040. We have taken the initiative to make Sweden one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. We have invested heavily in climate change, with local and regional climate investments and urban development agreements that provide support to municipalities for, among other things, public transport and cycle paths. We have introduced a flight tax, because aviation will of course pay for its climate impact. We have increased railway maintenance in order for the trains to run on time. We have strengthened climate research and increased support to adapt society to a changing climate. We have reduced the surplus of allowances under the EU Emissions Trading Scheme. We have given assignments and started collaborations to reduce emissions in Swedish industry. We have received more public transport in the countryside. We have introduced increased support for solar electricity and made it easier to put solar cells on the roofs. We provide support for energy storage to increase the opportunities for self-produced electricity. We saved the night trains. We have decided that all draft budgets should be environmental and climate-proofed. We have ensured that climate and environmental issues permeate development cooperation. We have introduced a new target for the financial market area to contribute to sustainable development. We have begun to investigate green bonds in order to be able to finance climate change more effectively. We have reduced VAT on minor repairs and have introduced reductions on home appliances repairs. We have developed a new strategy for sustainable consumption. This is what we have done only in the climate area. In addition, we have invested twice as much in school as the previous government did, in half of the time. We can now also see that school results are rising. We have budgeted gender equality and reduced the economic inequality between women and men. The list can be made much longer. Mr President, I would like to In the near future, two more important climate policy changes will come into force: the government's fuel change and bonus – the Malus system, the car change, which will contribute to the reduction of emissions. I also hope that we in this House will eventually be able to talk across party boundaries about an agreement on high-speed rail in Sweden. But we haven't finished our job yet. There's still a lot to do. Yet the ice melts in Antarctica, now at an accelerated rate. Still beats the temperatures new records. Yet people flee from war, famine and natural disasters. Yet seabeds and coral reefs die. There is no evidence yet that the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is decreasing. Climate threats still remain, and yet we cannot relax. We now need to continue to fill the list I read with radical climate policy, and we cannot afford to lose momentum. The next step is to expand the railways throughout the country, raise the price for emitting carbon dioxide, continue to save our seas from plastic, toxins and harmful substances and introduce an antibiotic tax into meat production. It is we who share this planet now that determine the future. It is we who must never stop fighting. The climate threat is here and now, and the climate cannot wait. I therefore call for the proposal and the proposal contained in the report to be approved.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-280	Mr President, I would like to I want to start this line by wishing everyone happy summer. I missed it earlier, and it didn't feel so good. I would also like to support the Christian Democratic reservation, No 5, which will bring great benefits to our country if it is approved. In her speech, Janine Alm Ericson spoke of growing gaps. There are many who have cause for concern. A gap that I think is worrying is the one that risks arising when people with a little lower but still very stable income do not get the chance to enter the owned housing market. The Green Party has held the Ministry of Housing during this term of office. During the year, we have received a stricter amortisation requirement, which may contribute to the precarious situation that we have in the housing market. The number of construction starts is falling sharply; in Stockholm, construction starts are expected to decrease by 30 per cent. For some companies, the sale of new right-of-occupancy apartments has decreased by 80 per cent. At the same time, the Director-General of Boverket wrote only the day before yesterday that for many groups – for example for older people and young people who ask for affordable housing – there is still a great need for housing. In its 2018 report, the Financial Policy Council stated that a stricter amortisation requirement is likely to contribute to foreclosure effects on the housing market by preventing households who would otherwise have been able to afford housing expenditure from bearing the additional amortisation. It was also written that a lot of young people's access to the housing market is impaired by these consequences. A few days ago, I saw that Minister Bolund rejected the possibility of a tax-beneficial housing saving in order to get the necessary capital input. What do you want to do to allow more people to enter the owned housing market?
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-286	Mr President, I would like to I thank Jakob Forssmed for the question. Housing policy is extremely important, and the fact that a person has a place to live is, of course, a fundamental prerequisite for building his or her life. The fact that you can also live close to where there is a job and where you want to develop your life is very important. We see that housing construction has been historically high at the beginning of the term of office. The government has invested a lot of money in developing more housing. The fact that things are going down now is, of course, worrying. Analysts say, however, that the construction that has been mainly rewarded so far is more expensive residential units, and that market is now seen as saturated. The government's investment aid for rentals – small, cheaper housing, which is also more climate-smart and therefore sustainable for the future – is something we need to invest a lot more in. Housing policy needs to be developed. I hope that we can find new forms of agreement in this area, which I believe is a fundamental prerequisite for continuing to build Sweden strongly, and that the Alliance will not leave these talks. As far as the amortisation requirement is concerned, we believe that we need to take seriously one of the biggest threats to the Swedish economy, which international assessors have constantly made Sweden aware of. We have a high level of indebtedness in Swedish households, which also poses a great risk to financial stability. To be thrown into a new crisis because we have had a housing bubble would be very bad for everyone, both for those who are now on the housing market and for those who want to come in. Therefore, we believe that an amortisation requirement continues to be good for strengthening Sweden's economy. However, we must ensure that people can afford and continue the construction of apartments that need to happen.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-292	Mr President, I would like to I am a little concerned when the Green Party now says that it wants to pursue a policy that is a waste of construction subsidies and that it wants to extend this policy, which does not actually work. First of all, people want to live in owned dwellings. You want to live in a small house or buy an apartment, because you want to dispose of your life a little more yourself and for example decide for yourself when to renovate. It has also over time proved to be a cheaper accommodation. Instead, however, people should be driven into poverty traps and into expensive rental apartments where the property owner – rather than the individual who owns his or her dwelling – should have the profit. I think this is a worrying policy. There is, of course, a small-scale move in the Green Party, I think, which is often good. Here, however, this seems to have been completely lost in favour of something else. I also find it strange that you allow Per Bolund to dictate housing policy. After all, we have heard the Minister for Housing being very sceptical about the increased amortisation requirement. A great deal now suggests that he is right and that this has become an obstacle to building, to the sale of dwellings and, not least, to young households in growing growth regions to enter the housing market and thus also to move to a labour market region with jobs. This also threatens the supply of skills. You say you can afford it, Janine Alm Ericson, but at the same time you raise the tax for people who work. You raise the tax on savings, and you have increased the tax on the investment savings account that some use to save up for a cash bet. Now you also say no to any form of housing saving so that people can take their own responsibility and save up for the effort. This does not bode well for the future. I am happy to talk about these issues, but we need to see that it is actually a large group that is being put outside the housing market today and that does not get the chance to come in and own their housing.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-299	Mr President, I would like to I noticed that Jakob Forssmed did not address the issue of Swedish household indebtedness and the danger it poses to the whole economy, but focused on a small part of a very large economic issue. As far as tax cuts are concerned, it is not only housing that allows people to take the jobs that exist. Among other things, it's about education and further education – lifelong learning – which requires societal resources. We need a tax policy that ensures that these resources are available; I have to say that Fredrik Olovsson developed this very well in the previous speech. I would like to put a rhetorical question to Jakob Forssmed – he has no reply left – which we can have the summer to discuss: How do the Christian Democrats want to deal with the huge indebtedness of Swedish households and the danger this poses to the Swedish economy? Otherwise, I would also like to wish everyone a very nice summer.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-303	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the proposal to be approved in the committee's report. Economic policy is about what society we want to live in. It is about how we organize this society, how we view each other as human beings and what we consider to be valuable and important in the construction of society. Politically, of course, we can influence our common future; it is not predestined but can be made very hopeful. It goes without saying that it is possible to have hope and faith in the future and to believe that the wealth that this society has will be able to do better for all of us. People come to work, homes are being built and public finances are extremely good. Government debt has decreased both as a share and in nominal terms, and deficits after the year in power have turned into large surpluses. The budgets that have been put in place have both strengthened welfare and evened out income inequality. With small steps in the right direction, progress has been made. It is possible to build a society where welfare is expanded; we have shown it. Free medicines for children, eyeglasses for children and young people, free mammography and cell screening – in our Sweden no one should ever have to miss a tumor because you couldn't afford to go to a survey. We have shown that it is possible to increase welfare by introducing free medical visits for 85-plus people in outpatient care, free public transport this summer for 700 000 young people and free of charge holiday activities so that no children or young people will have to refrain from participating because parents have to work or cannot afford it. We have shown this by increasing the means of study so that more young people will dare to take the step to higher studies. Class should not decide whether you take that step or not. Now more people can go to the dentist. All young people up to the age of 22 can go free of charge, and everyone else has received a double dental allowance. For teeth and health belong together. We have made investments in maternity care, in women's health and in better working conditions in health care. And soon all the unemployed can have access to a licence, so that more people can get a licence and a job throughout the country. Even the grocery store can be supported so that it stays in the village. This can be done with us in the Left Party, as well as building rental apartments with the aim of building away the housing shortage. Our ambition is to build a more equal society – a stronger society that embraces more and makes life both freer and safer for all of us and not just for a few up there at the top. Instead, some political parties try to frighten and describe social developments as unsafe and unsustainable. They do so in order to try to win votes and pick points. When the Swedish Democrats entered the Riksdag in 2010, it was in itself alarming. A racist party had been voted in, and there were many of us who were concerned about whether their policy would be followed by the other, established political parties. We wondered how fast it would go. We thought about developments in Denmark, but we were few who believed that the rhetoric and stigmatising politics of the Swedish Democrats would have such an impact as it has had and so quickly. People are being pointed out. Fear is being pushed out, and where you have your roots seems to be what will govern the design of politics. Dark forces are strengthened, and racism is spreading. We'll go another way. We choose solidarity and equality. We choose to fight for this generation to become the last unequal generation and for the children born today not to experience that they receive wages and power by gender. We can work to redistribute resources so that 245,000 children don't have to live in families that can't even afford the most necessary expenses but can look forward to new clothes as well as being in the sports club, going to a cup or a camp, being able to go to the movies or having a coffee – yes, maybe even being able to go on vacation. I think that's reasonable. While some families barely have breakfast on the table every day of the month, some go to the Grand Hotel and have breakfast for SEK 2,300. Some can do such things without even blinking. As they sit there and sourp their champagne to the porridge, they may think of that interview in Today's industry with Carl Bennet – the billionaire, you know, who is the 15th richest in Sweden. He says: Yes, we're actually doing a hell of a lot of good now that the wealth tax is gone and when the inheritance and gift tax is gone. I understand that he is pleased, because for a long time politics has benefited him and the other billionaires. Sweden has become a bit of a tax haven for the richest. While some want us to believe that migration is the problem, many others can see that there has been an enormous redistribution in this country for decades. From being the world's most equal country, Sweden has become the country where the gaps are increasing fastest. I think it would have been nice if Elisabeth Svantesson had at least mentioned with one word that the Moderates' economic policy has increased the gaps very sharply. Today we have the least redistributive tax system from high to low-income among the EU's 15 core countries. Sweden is the second worst country among the OECD countries in terms of taxation of inheritances, gifts, wealth and real estate. In other words, we are the second best at benefiting those who are in the best position. But seeing it is not enough, the bourgeoisie and the Swedish democrats seem to think. They want to increase income inequality even more in favour of those with the highest income and with great wealth. And the Social Democrats say: "Ligt card is located. As I said, economic policy is about what we want with society. Most of the reforms that we have achieved are designed to improve the lives of the vast majority of people, for everyone, so that the thickness of the wallet does not determine. The proposals are, of course, rejected to a large extent or in their entirety by the parties to the right. For them, there is an issue that is superior to everything else, regardless of the consequences and regardless of the economic situation and the state of public finances. It's tax cuts – and always those that make the most of those who already have the most. But there is one other thing that also seems to be a priority, and that is that the sick and the unemployed should pay. That's where it's kept wild. I don't know if it's because you really believe that poor and insecure people get healthy faster or if it's just cynical right-wing politics-- or whether it's both. Those who are already rich always seem to need more. They need more to do their best – one more contribution, or I mean another deduction, and one more tax reduction, and one more and one more. This is what they get, while the sick will become poorer and poorer. There is a difference between the right and left in politics. There is a difference between how we use the common resources. Public investment is twice as effective as tax cuts in job creation. If we look at the economic political proposals, we can see that the Center Party is proud and pleased to have the biggest tax cuts of the bourgeois parties. In Today's industry we can read about how Emil Källström dreams of tax reductions with an additional 400 billion. The Center Party has the greatest savings in the welfare of the bourgeois parties but does not come up in the huge savings of the Swedish Democrats. They're so big, they're hard to imagine. But that's what happens when people with Jimmie Åkesson's income are going to have big tax cuts, because you need to finance it. Liberals say school first! However, in their budget, tax cuts are allowed to take three times more space and, above all, they benefit men, i.e. high wage earners. I would like to say that the Liberals are the party where the divides come first. The Moderates try to mix the cards away and want to triangulate with the Social Democrats. But if you check, you can see that their so-called spending on welfare is financed by savings on welfare. It is well known that for the Moderates tax reductions are always pre-oritized, except for the sick – for they should have a tax increase. I wonder what makes it sick that will never ever get a tax cut without a tax increase by the Moderates. And why sick people's compensation should also always be reduced. Maybe some Moderate could explain it. Or maybe some Swedish Democrat can explain why the sick and unemployed should pay the most in tax on equal income, which is exactly what the Swedish Democrats and the bourgeoisie want. Mr President, I would like to The spring change budget presents new reforms. In the wake of the metoo, efforts are now being made to improve sex and cohabitation education in schools, to educate the judiciary and to disseminate information on the new consent law. Money goes to strengthen the position and education of regional safety representatives about sexual harassment and the work of the Swedish Work Environment Authority on the issue. In total, there are seven different metoo reforms in the budget. Health care is provided with resources to increase accessibility, invest in mobile teams or for reinforcements in other ways. It's necessary. There is also money for 10,000 more summer jobs. 10 000 more young people can now contribute, gain experience, get their own money and feel that you are playing an important role. In addition, money is added to recreation centres for extended opening hours and for more activities. The sports movement and cultural associations also receive money for children's and young people's sports and cultural practices. In our Sweden, children and young people will be able to feel hope and confidence in the future. We want to use economic policy for a Sweden for everyone, not just for the few at the top. Therefore, we will work for high cost protection in dental care, for safety in working life, for more rental rights for reasonable rents and for increased welfare with more employees in elderly care, in health care and in preschool and school. And, of course, there should be better working conditions and wages. We want to introduce a right of deduction for the unemployment fund. That is our priority. And you know– we actually think that those with the highest income, most capital and large wealth can finance it. In this way, we are at the same time smoothing income differentials. This is good, not least for economic development and growth. With our policy, not everything is shimmering, and we do not solve all the problems, but much is getting so much better. It will be a Sweden for everyone and not just those at the top. There is a difference between the right and left in politics. Finally, I would also like to say nice summer to everyone in the Committee on Finance. I would like to extend my special thanks to Monica Green and Jörgen Andersson, who, after many years, leaves the Committee on Finance – what will happen to the rest of us, we will have to look after the elections. Thank you to the chairman, and a special thanks to the Finance Committee's office, which is so professional and facilitates our work in a very professional way. Thank you!
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-339	Mr President, I would like to With regard to Ulla Andersson's pass to me during the speech, I would like to note once and for all that until now I have never spoken the figure of 400 billion in any tax debate at all. Ulla Andersson knows that when the article she referred to was published, the first thing I did was to describe that it was not fair for the Center Party's tax policy. If you want to take part of it, you should read our budget. Why Ulla Andersson continues to refer to that article after we have both tweeted and talked about it only Ulla Andersson knows. However, I came in my generosity as close as I have ever been to compliment Ulla Andersson in the speaker's chair when I said in my speech that the Left Party has at least sensed not to speak out loud about the fact that it wants to leave the European Union. But now that Oscar Sjöstedt was given the opportunity to explain and defend his EU opposition, Ulla Andersson should be given the same opportunity in the name of justice. Is it not the case that the outer edge parties in Swedish politics should draw conclusions from the Brexis soup we now see? When one of the largest and heaviest Member States tries to leave the EU, it cripples the economy, the public sector and society. That is not a reasonable way forward. There is no reasonable alternative, and it is simply an unwise policy. Sometimes you have to reconsider when reality changes. Is it not time for the Left Party to skip the dreams of an isolationist Sweden that does not cooperate with its neighbours, Ulla Andersson? Is it not time for the Left Party to make the same journey as the Green Party has made and to realise politics and accept EU membership?
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-342	Mr President, I would like to In 1994 I voted against EU membership. I haven't changed my mind a day since. I also voted against membership of the EMU, and I think there are many who can thank those who stood on the 'no' side of that electoral movement for it. What if we had been there and what a misery we would have had to share in! For the Left Party, solidarity and cooperation are at the heart of everything we do. We want to cooperate with other countries. We want a policy based on democratic and jointly agreed decisions. But we also think that there is a very important point in the fact that those decisions are taken by the elected representatives in the parliaments of the countries. We therefore think that it is the people of Sweden who should make decisions about politics here, just as we think that the people of Norway, England and other countries should make the decisions there. We have seen what the financial crisis has meant in Europe. We have seen how banks have benefited and how people have paid a very high price. We have seen it in Greece, Spain and Italy. What Europe has focused on is saving the banks and not ensuring that people have food for the day, a place to live and a job to go to. On the other hand, we respect the results of the referendum. Today there is a majority in favour of Sweden being a member of the EU, and in the EU we are working to make progress as good as possible and stand up for women's right to abortion, homosexual rights and a social cohesion policy, that is, to help each other in need and support each other for development so that people are not left in poverty but have the opportunity to get out of it through jobs, investments and a strong social safety net.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-346	Mr President, I would like to Well, that was crystal clear or maybe it wasn't. On the one hand, they say that they do not want to be in the EU, and reasonably this would mean continuing to pursue this issue where appropriate. On the other hand, it talks about all the things that the Left Party wants to develop within the EU and all the issues that it wants to pursue within the framework of EU membership. It doesn't really stick together. The reasonable thing, Ulla Andersson, would be to admit that reality has run out of politics in this area. The Left Party should also adjust its policy to the reality we see and realise that it is reasonable to pursue its issues within the framework of European cooperation. It was a mistake, Ulla Andersson, to vote no 1994. I also believe that Ulla Andersson will come to that realization of what it is suffering. It sounds like Ulla Andersson is already halfway into that thought process. You have to start from the reality as it looks. Political duplicators are not a recipe for success if you claim to have the confidence of people seriously. The outer parties in Swedish politics, the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats, say the same thing. It is against EU membership despite the overwhelming evidence that it is not the way forward that we are now seeing in Britain after the Brexit vote. As I said, I will tell Ulla Andersson that it still sounds like the Left Party is halfway into some kind of sobering. I think it is good, because it is good if we leave behind the tiresome question of yes or no and instead think about how we should develop both Swedish and European policies. That is how important European cooperation is that, just as Mats Persson said in a previous change of line, we need to think about how we make Europe even better and how we build Europe as a place in the world much stronger than today. Sweden's voice is needed there, but then we must put the question of 'yes' or 'no' behind us.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-350	Mr President, I would like to Nationalism, violations of human rights and democracy, public service that is being questioned, courts that are being deposed – there are deterrent examples across Europe. We are members of the European Union, and that is why we in the European Union are working to improve and develop our work in the European Union. It's exactly the same way the Moderates, who don't want county councils, do. They are in charge here in Stockholm in the county council in Stockholm. Perhaps I would like them not to be – we can look at New Karolinska as an example – but they are there and work there, just as we are in the EU and are working to develop the EU. For example, we would like to see a completely different migration policy. We believe that Europe, the richest continent in the world, should be able to accept refugees and not put up walls. We are trying to work for this, just as we are trying to work for women to have the right to abortion, for human rights to be respected and for homosexual rights to be respected. That is what we work for in the European Parliament, and we intend to continue to do so. On the day there is a majority in Sweden to leave the EU, yes, then we can think about whether we should make demands for a referendum. Today, however, there is no such majority. We will work to develop Europe, and we will do so in the way that we think is best, that is to say, to protect people and not banks, to ensure that people have a refuge to flee to and we will stand up for human and democratic rights. They should never, never be moved in any way. That is why we think it is very interesting to see developments in the UK with Brexit, but we are also following developments in Poland and Hungary and other such countries. What happens there is something we never ever want to be a part of.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-354	Mr President, I would like to During this term of office, the Left Party has been inspired by the idea of shutting down welfare activities that work well and that usually have chosen if they are privately run and make a profit. You have been so despite knowing that the motion did not have a majority in Parliament and would not go through. Nevertheless, you have continued to pursue the process of investigations, legislative proposals and so on. Let's see what it leads to. This year's edition of the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor, the world's largest survey of entrepreneurship, has just arrived. There you can see that entrepreneurship in Sweden has decreased in 2017 while it has increased in other innovation-driven countries. The report notes that the decline in entrepreneurial activity is due exclusively to a decrease in women's entrepreneurship. This is linked to the discussion and the proposals that the government has made on entrepreneurship in the welfare sector. Is this something that concerns Ulla Andersson?
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-357	Mr President, I would like to When the decision to start the profit experiment in welfare was taken in the early 1990s, a 15-page bill was the basis for it. Those who had written the bill were two Moderates, who themselves have earned enormous money from the whole development. We know that there are a lot of people who are in welfare just to make big money. The other day we could read about a school here in Stockholm that had to close again because the owners did not think the profits were big enough. There's a lot of popular support to end the prize hunt in school. The Swedish people simply think that it is reasonable that the tax money they pay should go to the students at school, to the teachers, to the teachers' continuing education, to school books and not to enrich the owners. The proposal on the table of Parliament allowed for a return on operational capital. If the owners had invested, they could get a return. If they hadn't invested their own money, they had to take out wages, like other people who work at school or at the health center. I think it is a reasonable and logical approach to welfare. Because welfare is not like any market. Laying down a school is not the same as going to the store and exchanging a product that is a wrong purchase. We can never, ever, handle welfare that way. I think that Jakob Forssmed and the bourgeois parties should reflect on what the welfare experiment has led to. Is it reasonable that the return for running a school is higher than to run a bank in today's Sweden?
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-363	Mr President, I would like to Talk about experiments that you want to carry out, Ulla Andersson! You want to shut down well-functioning and high-quality small and medium-sized businesses that students, parents and the elderly have themselves chosen. What uncertainty you are throwing them into! I agree that there are problems that need to be corrected. But we have tried to do that through what you also come up with: permit requirements and increased quality requirements. It should not be possible to make profits while at the same time having poor quality. But your policy means shutting everyone down. Those who are of good quality and those who do not meet the quality requirements must be treated equally. It is the mode of operation that is the focus of your policy. As far as returns are concerned, many, not least smaller companies, have repeatedly shown that in practice it is zero in profit opportunities that will be offered. My question was not about this at all. We are now seeing a decline in entrepreneurship in Sweden, and it is only about women's entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship being reduced. I wonder if Ulla Andersson is concerned about this. It can therefore be traced directly to the policy and rhetoric that you have devoted yourself to during your term of office. Is Ulla Andersson concerned about this? How does Ulla Andersson think this will affect the possibilities to recruit staff in the future and to make this an attractive area to apply to if you are interested in welfare development? One can also be interested in having influence over one's activities and over time, in getting better working methods and in ensuring that there are more employers to choose from. How are we gonna do that? Is Ulla Andersson at all concerned about this dimension of the issue?
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-368	Mr President, I would like to The companies that are in welfare for the sake of welfare can of course continue. I understand that Jakob Forssmed has run out of arguments; they try to scare instead. Anyone who is in welfare today and who wants to be there for the sake of business itself can continue. But those who were and are there to make big money may not continue to be very interested in it. But the purpose of welfare has never been to be there to make big money. I believe that elected representatives should ensure that tax funds go to what they are intended for and not to other things. This is also the task of Jakob Forssmed. If people are to be employed in welfare in the future, we must ensure that there are good working conditions and wages and that the resources of welfare go to welfare. It is not for nothing that in precisely privatised welfare there are poorer working conditions and lower wages. In this city where we now stand, thousands of wages are distinguished between an employee in a free school and an employee in the municipal school. This is how private companies make profits. In welfare, staff are the big cost, and if you want to make a profit, that's where you cut. I do not think it is reasonable to run a private company which is entirely financed by taxes. Is it the view of entrepreneurship, that it is taxes that finance investments, profits, advertising, premises and personnel costs – all of them? Actually, they do. When this is the case, I think that we should have a regulatory framework in place that ensures that at least the bulk of the money goes to what it is intended for and that it does not end up in private pockets. I feel very popular support for this.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-373	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by thanking you for an interesting and clarifying debate, so far. Like many speakers before me, I can see that the economy is now running strongly in large parts of the world. What may not have been as clear when we have listened to the opposition is that in a strong world economy Sweden is even stronger. Sweden's growth since 2014 has been higher than in most comparable countries. This is due not least to the strong Swedish labour market. Since the government took office, the policy has been changed, from major tax cuts to investments for more jobs. And we see results. The employment rate of the adult population is the highest ever measured by Eurostat, the Statistical Office of the European Union, in any EU country. The share of people supported by public insurance and compensation schemes is at the lowest level since 1981. And since the government took office, 300 000 more jobs have been created in Sweden, of which over 100 000 in our welfare activities – school, health care and care. Youth unemployment, which was so high during the time of the alliance government that Sweden received crisis support from the EU, is now at the lowest level in 16 years. Young people without a job are offered jobs, training or other services within 90 days. No young person should have to start their adult life in long-term unemployment. Long-term unemployment has decreased and is only lower in two other EU countries. The time to enter the labour market has almost halved. And after just over five years, half of the new arrivals have jobs. Instead of inefficient tax rebates for those already working, the government has enabled more people to acquire the skills required by employers. Fully expanded, the new knowledge boost will cover 100 000 more opportunities to train or learn a profession that leads to jobs. Mr. Old President! As more people work, tax revenue increases. It gives politics the muscle to meet the investment needs that Sweden will face in the coming years – I will come back to that. But it also gives us the opportunity to save for worse times. The previous government had a growing deficit, and in 2014 it amounted to SEK 60 billion. It has now been turned into surpluses, as we have had all these years of this parliamentary term. This means that we have been able to pay off public debt, which is now the lowest since 1977. Alongside a tight and responsible fiscal policy, the government has during the term of office also been able to carry out major investments in our common welfare, 35 billion SEK for health care, school and care. Thanks to a resource supplement equivalent to 2 600 training places, more nurses, specialist nurses and not least midwives are being trained. Teacher training has been expanded with 10,000 seats, while the profession has become more attractive thanks to increased salaries for 65 000 teachers. At the same time, the equivalence of schools is strengthened, with increased state support for schools with the toughest conditions, and support for preschools means that children's groups are now the smallest in 25 years. The fight against crime has also been intensified with the greatest contribution of resources to the police in the 21st century, while strengthening the rest of the legal chain. Twice as many are now studying to be a police officer compared to when the government took office. By 2024, the Police Authority will have 10,000 more employees. To curb smuggling and trafficking in arms and drugs, the Swedish Customs has received its largest increase in funds in over ten years. In order to combat the causes of crime, the government is also implementing a long-term reform programme to reduce segregation and increase support to municipalities and areas with socio-economic challenges. We have also strengthened the financial conditions of families with children through increased child allowances, while the situation of single parents has been facilitated by increased maintenance support. Pensioners who have this problem have got it a little easier to get the economy together thanks to increased housing allowances and free outpatient care for those over 85 years of age, and not least we have eliminated the tax gap for all pension income up to SEK 17 000 per month. For this government, it goes without saying that those who have worked a long career should not pay higher taxes than those who are still working. It is about the principle of equal taxation of wages and pensions. Ulf Kristersson says one thing to Sweden's pensioners, but then he does something completely different. Just recently, he presented a proposal that he claimed would abolish the unjust pensioner's tax that he himself was involved in introducing. But if you look at the Moderates' proposals, it is black and white that they do not want to remove the pensioner's tax at all. Occupational pension will continue to be taxed at a rate of just over SEK 2 billion a year. It's unprincipled. For me, the Moderates lack the complete credibility of pensioner tax. I am a bit old-fashioned, and I think we should honor our older people who have built up the Sweden that we are so proud of, not tax them. Mr. Old President! The House today decides on guidelines for economic policy in the coming years. Many of the government's reforms and forecasts go well into the forthcoming term of office. If we get another government after the autumn parliamentary elections, then there is also a great risk that Sweden will choose a different direction. This applies, in particular, to labour market policy. Although we have already met the previous government's target of 5 million people employed, the ambitions of employment policy must continue to be raised. The objective of the EU's lowest unemployment rate continues to guide economic policy. Half of the decline in unemployment that we have seen during the term of office is the result of government policy. At the same time, we have a challenge ahead of us when it comes to new arrivals who are now allowed to stay in Sweden also coming to work. This challenge will not be reduced in one of the world's most advanced labour markets with high knowledge requirements. There today's debate in this House has shown clear alternatives. Should the person who comes to Sweden meet with a clear expectation and acquire the knowledge requested by Swedish employers? Or should we adapt the labour market to new arrivals and drive a low-wage sector with jobs that cannot be supported? Should people be able to afford to move to where the jobs are, or should we introduce market rents? To me, the choice is self-evident. When 120 000 jobs are available because employers do not find staff with the right skills, those who do not have a job must of course acquire the skills needed to get to work. If you are young, you should obtain a upper secondary school degree and move on to work or higher education. If you already have the required professional knowledge, you should learn Swedish as soon as possible, complement your skills and take one of the available vacancies. If you are a little older and lack the right skills, you can start with subsidised employment, clearing sly along the roads or walking next door in the home care service or in caring. Sweden did not become one of the richest countries in the world with low wages. We became a strong society by securing work for everyone with wages that you can live on and housing that ordinary people can afford to live in. Mr. Old President! Perhaps the primary choice for voters in the run-up to the autumn elections is about welfare. That is why Prime Stefan Löfven has said that this election will be a referendum on welfare. In the coming years, Sweden will grow with 200 000 more children and 300 000 more older people. It is a joy's message that we have more children and live longer and longer. But it is also a development that is binding. We will build preschools, schools, retirement homes and health centres. We will train and hire nurses, nurses, teachers and preschool teachers. This is the really big task of the next parliamentary term. If Sweden is to fulfil this task, we must prioritise. It is not enough to sit back on the increases in resources that this government has made so far. Sweden cannot afford major tax cuts next term of office. At a time when welfare needs are growing, we need to invest more. In practice, the options are the same as cuts. The question for this autumn's choice is: Should we have more staff in health care or less, more stress in home care or more time for our elderly, more employees in school or less time for teachers with children? To me, the answer is clear. Welfare takes precedence over major tax cuts for those who earn the most. Mr. Old President! The government has changed the direction of politics during its term of office. Reforms have been implemented to increase security and equality. Sweden is equipped for worse times. With the principle that joint investments go before large tax cuts, Sweden's combined strength can increase. With the right priorities for the next parliamentary term, social problems can be solved if we give the right priority.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-401	Mr. Old President! I had the pleasure of reading Magdale na Andersson's day-fresh debate article in Dagens Nyheter during my breakfast. As is so often the case with the Minister for Finance, there are a number of supplementary questions that I would like to take this opportunity to ask. Firstly, as is so often the case, it was the usual demonstration that there were such large deficits during the financial crisis and the years after. What is not in the article is that the Social Democrats proposed even greater deficits when they had the chance. Secondly, the Minister for Finance says that housing construction is record high. But she does not mention the fact that construction is now declining. This is one of the worrying signs that we see in the Swedish economy. She also writes a great deal about the labour market but does not mention at all, wisely enough, the government's objectives that are now further away than when it took office – the goal of the EU's lowest unemployment rate. She mentions that twice as many people study police, but she does not mention that fewer people work as police officers. My main criticism is of the article and the work of the Minister for Finance are the three final points. Now she had the chance to describe the visions ahead, because that's what the election movement should be about. The three points are as follows: Everyone who can work should work, welfare funding should be secured and Sweden should be a good country to age in. There are three platitudes with which I think all parties can agree. But what is really needed in the coming years is a number of fundamental reforms. The same international assessors to whom the Finance Minister himself refers say that the labour market must allow those who do not come in today. The housing market must be more mobile, and the tax system is becoming increasingly outdated. This has to be resolved, but the Minister of Finance has no answer.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-409	Mr. Old President! No, I'm not answerless. However, I have other answers than Emil Källström. Emil Källström often says that we should implement major structural reforms. But what does that mean? What is the practical policy behind Emil Källström's major structural reforms? Yes, that means we will have a labour market where we will legislate on lower wages. It is a labour market with more precarious labour law where it is easier to fire people. This also means a housing market where you can increase rents, i.e. introduce market rents. I do not see that the road ahead for Sweden is increased rents, lower wages and more precarious working conditions. That's not my way forward. I see another way forward. I see a Sweden that is richer because we stick together. I see a Sweden where more people come to work by getting the knowledge and being able to acquire the knowledge that Swedish employers demand. I see a Sweden that is better because we build more housing that people can afford to live in. That is why we want investment aid – something that Emil Källström wants to abolish – for those who build low-rent rentals. We therefore want to continue to expand the education system and labour market policy, which is something that the alliance parties want to abolish. I also want to make sure that Sweden is a country where we invest enough in school and preschool so that all children can get the knowledge they need in the workplace. They will get the knowledge that will give them a job with a salary that you can live on. So I am not unanswered, but my answers are different from Emil Källström.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-415	Mr. Old President! I think that the intervention of the Minister for Finance shows the problem. We will have to let go of the flossles and instead agree on a number of fundamental reforms. I think I know the Minister for Finance agrees with that. The fundamental thing is that the world is changing, but the Swedish systems have done so too little. Sweden has a labour market and a housing market that basically means that security means that you should be read. You should stay and preferably not move or change jobs, because security is about protecting me where I am right now. However, the world and society are evolving, and we need to find ways to ensure people's security in change, security even though you move and security when you change jobs, businesses or employment. We need to agree on completely new answers to people's basic needs for social security. This is precisely what we mean when we talk about the need for structural reforms. You should not polish the surface, as housing subsidies and other things mean, but really change the rules of the Swedish economy. The finance minister responds with a shoulder twitch and says that it is about higher rents and that people should get the kick. That's not a good starting point for getting along. It is not just the Center Party that says this. Soon all domestic and international assessors say the same thing: The Swedish economy is doing well. We're on top of a global boom. The companies are making great efforts. But there are some basic things that Sweden needs to change and improve to continue to be a country of world economics and have a well-being at the same level. The Minister of Finance is just dismissing this. She does not mention it at all in her line speech during today's debate. It is problematic with flosscles and shoulder twitches when it comes to areas that in the long term really determine Sweden's competitiveness.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-421	Mr. Old President! I do not shrug my shoulders at the policy proposed by Emil Källström. Security in the housing market Emil Källström talks about. What policy does he propose? Well, he wants to liberalise the rental market and introduce market rents. So people can get rent increases of 30, 40, 50 or perhaps 60 percent if they live in attractive locations. It's not safe for me. For me, security is to ensure that housing is built that people with normal income can afford to rent. That is why the Government has housing investment aid aimed at precisely this. Security in the labour market is mentioned by Emil Källström. For me, security is not to reduce educational efforts, to legislate on lower wages and to make it easier to lay off people. It's not flosskeler or twitching your shoulders. This is the policy that you are proposing in the Alliance. I take this very seriously, but I see a completely different direction for Sweden. I want a safer labour market. I don't want it to be easier to lay off people, on the contrary. I don't want young people to have to spend months in and out of the year waiting for a text message to see if they get a job today or not. I don't want you to be able to stack fixed-term contracts on each other. I don't want you to be so insecure about your full-time employment that an employer can say any day now, you don't have 40 hours a week anymore. You only have 30. It's not safe for me. One thing that is not security for young women in the labour market is if it becomes easier to lay off more people. What woman or young girl dares protest if the boss behaves inappropriately at a party if she knows she'll lose her job the next day? This is not security for young girls in the Swedish labour market. I do not take this with a shoulder twitch, nor is it a problem to be pointed out and said it is a flosskel.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-426	Mr. Old President! It is a bit brave of the Minister of Finance to attack a little bit of everything. I just want to give you a little tip on fixed-term contracts. The Minister of Finance can start at the Government Office, and then we can discuss it. After all, it is one of the worst workplaces in the case of fixed-term contracts. It is also a bit brave when the Minister of Finance decides to go to elections on welfare. After all, we have four years of proof of how the Social Democrats have managed welfare. In the midst of a booming boom, parents are waiting for the children to come to psychiatry. Now the queues have tripled. In the midst of a booming boom, school results deteriorate and fewer become eligible for high school. So this is brave. I would like to remind you of what creates prosperity. Welfare is created by effort and diligence. People who go to work every day and who contribute and people who start businesses, take risks and are prepared to invest something are the basis for the prosperity that Sweden has as well as that we together contribute to what is common, that is, that we can take in taxes. But it is the effort, not the taxes, that creates prosperity. The Minister of Finance, of course, wants an election campaign on welfare versus tax reduction. I understand that in the eight months that we have met in various debates. When you listen to the Minister of Finance, it may sound as if the politics of the Moderates will in principle destroy the entire welfare. For just a second, however, I would like to focus on the tax cuts made by the Minister of Finance. I think it is a good thing that the Minister of Finance has put forward proposals for a reduction in corporate tax. That's what we're behind. It is good that the Minister for Finance has made proposals to reduce the tax on pensions. That's what we're behind. But why is it that the tax cuts of the Social Democrats are strengthening welfare while the Moderates are not doing so? Another question I would like answers to is how it is that the Minister of Finance can never imagine reducing the tax on the person who works.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-431	Mr. Old President! It is quite correct that we should reduce corporate tax. At the same time, we're broadening the base. So we are doing a cost-neutral rescheduling. It is good to be able to make such an important structural change in broad consensus across block boundaries. Pensioner tax is a matter of principle for us. We think that the idea and the idea are wrong that pensioners are taxed rather than honored. When I listened to Ulf Kristersson's summer speech I got the impression that he now seems to have come to the realization that it might not have been a good idea. This does not make it any less surprising when you then examine the proposal and see that it does not mean that you remove the tax gap. I just heard Elisabeth Svantesson blamed RUT. I, too, have been in opposition and worked with documentation from RUT. You have to review them before you go out with them. If I understand correctly, it was quite clear in the RUT basis that occupational pensions were not included. Elisabeth Svantesson may want to step forward and show some leadership here and explain how you in the Moderates have actually done. We have nothing in principle against reducing the tax on wage earners. We have also done so in a government position. But at every single time, a balance must be struck between where the money is best spent. Is it right and proper at a certain time to reduce taxes on employees? Or is it best to make sure that you can invest in welfare? Given that we are now entering a demographic shift with more children and more elderly, we have made the assessment that if we do not ensure that we spend resources on schools, preschools, care for the elderly and health care, the quality will be reduced in the coming years. I do not think that is the right priority. That is why welfare is ahead of major tax cuts. In addition, the Moderates want to reduce taxes most for me and those with the highest incomes.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-437	Mr. Old President! A family with children has during these four years actually got less in your wallet with your politics, Magdalena Andersson. The fact that you are willing to lower taxes for those who work and make every effort every day is not the case. I find it a little sad that what has built Sweden strong – effort and diligence – cannot be rewarded. A tip: It is possible to invest in welfare and at the same time lower taxes for those who work. We did it for eight years. Just read the supporting documents and see that it also strengthened welfare. More money went to welfare during the year of the Alliance. And it can be repeated. If we are to invest in welfare – which we are to do – we also need to keep down grant costs and migration costs. We have said that very clearly. That will be a clear priority for us Moderates during the next term of office, and it will be necessary. Now I have one minute, Mr. Old President. This is my last speech in this House this parliamentary term. I'd like to take this opportunity to thank everyone who works in here. I thank the Office and the entire Finance Committee. And of course, I thank the Minister of Finance for the job she has done over these four years. Happy summer!
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-441	Mr. Old President! Elisabeth Svantesson is trying to give the impression that it is free to lower the tax. But it's not free to lower the tax. You can't eat the cake and keep it. It doesn't work that way. What happened during the years of the alliance was that they did not invest enough in the welfare of the state. At the same time, the tax was increased in more than 200 municipalities. Public finances were left behind with running deficits. That is the result of the policy of a moderate Minister of Finance and of the fiscal policy of a bourgeois government. That is also what we have seen every time the bourgeois parties have had the opportunity to have influence over fiscal policy. It leaves behind very large budget deficits which we Social Democrats then have to come and clean up, this time in a government together with the Green Party. This is what modern Swedish economic-political history looks like. Let's make sure it doesn't happen again! That is why this is exactly what the elections will be about. Should we make sure to invest the resources needed to maintain and strengthen the quality of our children and our elderly, or should we make sure to reduce the tax most for those who earn the most? I would like to thank Elisabeth Svantesson for exciting debates here in Parliament and look forward to further exciting debates during the election campaign until we meet here after the election again. Nice summer!
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-444	Mr. Old President! Members of the Committee on Finance! The Finance Committee's office! Many thanks for your work, and thank you for your cooperation over these years! Thank you, Magdalena Andersson, for your post! Many people I meet feel a frustration. In Sweden you pay a lot of taxes. Sweden has the world's highest marginal tax on labour. But you feel that you are not getting enough back in welfare, despite the high taxes you pay. This government, led by Magdalena Andersson, is cutting back on LSS support for those with disabilities, the most fragile in society. People who need help in eating do not now receive the help they require and need. The foundation of a welfare society is that people work. Recently we could read about Ali Omumi, who is an engineer and works at ABB. He is now expelled from Sweden. In recent years, several people with high skills have been expelled. In his case it happens because he lacked a social security number for the first three weeks in Sweden, which meant that his employer ABB, a targeted Swedish company, could not take out the insurance required. As a consequence, Ali Omumi, who is an engineer, will be expelled from Sweden. There are plenty of examples. The CEO of a pharmaceutical company at home in Lund where I live was affected by the same thing. In a situation where we have a shortage of skilled labour and where companies are screaming for engineers and programmers, we are expelling those kinds of people from our country. Why, Magdalena Andersson, should hardworking engineers and programmers be thrown out of Sweden?
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-449	Mr. Old President! No, of course it is unreasonable when people who have come to Sweden to work do not get the opportunity to remain in the country because of a minor administrative error with the employer. We need to clean that up. We need to ensure that minor administrative offences do not lead to unreasonable consequences for individuals and their employers. But it is also important that we have order in the legislation, so that abuses can be prosecuted. Of course, people who have come here on the wrong grounds should not be able to remain as labour immigrants. Here, of course, there needs to be order and order in the system. However, minor administrative offences should not have the consequences that there are examples of them. There, of course, we need to review how the system works. It goes without saying that people with skills that are in demand in this country should have the opportunity to come here and work. It is something that benefits both them and Sweden. However, I do not share the view that we should have free labour migration to those professions where there is no shortage in Sweden and where people who live in Sweden now and may be unemployed or living on subsistence support could take up the jobs. There I see no reason why we should have the most liberal labour immigration rules in place throughout the OECD. Instead, I believe that we need a tightening up of the rules.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-452	Mr. Old President! With one hand the government decides that 9 000 persons who have been refused their asylum application may stay. With the other hand, people who have done no harm in our country are expelled, but only contributed by working in our country. That logic is hair-traveling and impossible to explain or understand. You say that you think it is wrong, Magdalena Andersson, that this is happening and that people are expelled. But it's happening. It happens every week. Liberals are proposing a change of law in cases where errors are detected. If the Finnish Immigration Service points out a minor error to an employer, the employer should be able to correct that mistake afterwards, as proposed by us. It also happens to be the opinion of the Migration Board. This is what the Migration Board said when it expressed its opinion on the new law the government made last December. But you say no to this. You say no to this amendment of the law, which would have allowed people to stay in our country. It would have meant that we had not thrown people out of Sweden. You say no to that. I think the explanation lies in the fact that you basically do not like labour immigration. We are sceptical about labour migration, Magdalena Andersson himself said. The consequence of your ideological attitude is that hardworking people are being thrown out of our country. I want to see a society where it is possible to come to Sweden, build their future here, contribute to our welfare and contribute to a better future for myself. At the same time, our country needs programmers, engineers and other important competences. Why, Magdalena Andersson, should hardworking engineers and programmers be thrown out of Sweden? Why do you say no to this amendment? Why don't you see the problems? Why are you throwing people out?
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-456	Mr. Old President! I think Mats Persson is a bit of an ugly interpreter of what I'm saying. I'm not saying yes to all labour immigration. However, this does not prevent there being a great need for labour migration in areas where there is a shortage in Sweden. It could be engineers, computer engineers, chefs and doctors. There are a number of areas where there is a shortage and where people from other countries and other parts of the world can come to Sweden and contribute. We will of course welcome them and do it quickly and well for them to enter the Swedish labour market. Of course, no minor administrative misconduct by the employer should lead to unreasonable consequences either for society or for the individual. However, there is a dividing line between me and Mats Persson regarding the possibility of continuing to bring people here in areas where there is no shortage whatsoever in Sweden. There are reasonably already people in Sweden who could carry out these tasks. It may be a question of new arrivals who have been given asylum and the opportunity to stay in Sweden but who are now living on subsistence support. I see no reason why we should bring people from other countries or other continents here to carry out those tasks when there are already people living in Sweden who can do so and who we provide with public money. Of course, it is better for them to carry out those tasks. I see no reason why we should have the most generous OECD rules on low-skilled labour migration. It should of course be possible for people to come and live and work in Sweden in the areas where it benefits Sweden and the individual. But we should never use labour migration to dump conditions and wages in Sweden.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-460	Mr. Old President! Only a few weeks ago, the Social Democrats voted through an amnesty, what is a little commonly referred to as refugee amnesty. It is, of course, completely misleading, because the refugee status of the group of people affected by the amnesty has been tried in the established order by the responsible authority. There it has been assessed that there is no need for protection. It is therefore in the direction of the key, by definition, not about refugees. There are 9 000 adult men without protection. Or wrong of me: 6 per mille are actually women. It's only 99.4% men. Thus, nearly 9 000 adult men without a need for protection have been granted a residence permit in the country. Since it is such a costly business for Swedish taxpayers, the matter had to be prepared in the form of a new budget. I can see that in Sweden of the Social Democrats, a 'no' is a 'yes', which is unfortunate on a great many levels. I can also say that the talk about order and order in migration policy is precisely talk. What I wonder is how on earth one prioritises. It is SEK 3 billion of taxpayers' money that is now being wasted. In addition, it is probably a figure at a disadvantage. Let me avoid the infantile argument that we can afford both. Everything always has an alternative cost. That is something we know with total certainty. In my world there are certainly a thousand things that are higher priorities than this: guarantee pension, housing supplement, police, civil servants' conditions, unemployment fund, you name it. What are the priorities?
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-466	Mr. Old President! This is about a number of people who have ended up in an unreasonable situation because of the extremely long processing times after autumn 2015. Now we have changed the migration policy so that we will never again end up in the situation we had in 2015. However, those who have ended up in the absurd situation, we want to give another chance to get a new trial. Oscar Sjöstedt says it will be expensive for public finances. It remains to be seen. It is people who will receive an education in Sweden, and they are young. If they then have the right to stay in Sweden, they have a long working life where they can work and pay taxes. When it comes to the question of whether it becomes a plus or minus deal for the state, it is by no means self-evident that it becomes a minus deal. It remains to be seen. Now it is not the argument for why we have made the decision, but it has become an unreasonable situation for individuals. Surely politics is about priorities. The priorities of Oscar Sjöstedt and the Swedish Democrats are very clear. They think the gaps in Sweden are too small. The Swedish Democrats want us to have greater gaps in Sweden. When we look at the economic policies of the Swedish Democrats, we see that we want to reduce taxes most for those who earn the most while, for families with children, we want to remove the increase in child benefit that the government has implemented. Oscar Sjöstedt! Why are the gaps in Sweden too small? Why do the Swedish Democrats propose an economic policy that leads to increased gaps between those who have little and those who have much?
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-470	Mr. Old President! The Social Democrats are good at giving with one hand and bringing the other. I get an increase in child benefit, and I don't have a need for it. It's completely unnecessary. It is better to strengthen those groups that have a weaker economy and focus on things that meet those who have a weak economy. This applies not least to housing allowance. It is much more effective from the point of view of distribution. I'm no need for 200 kroner more a month. It's a total waste of money for taxpayers. Aim at them so m have a weaker seat instead! I think we can be quite prepared that there will be a minus deal. Empirin and research speak clearly, unfortunately. But by all means, let's keep our fingers crossed. Maybe it'll work better this time. No one would be happier than me if that were the case. There is talk of order in migration policy. Last year, 2017, 135,000 residence permits were granted in Sweden. Is it sustainable volumes? I'm pretty sure it's not. I have previously asked the Minister for Finance about the expulsion of the people who reside in the country illegally. That is something that the former Home Secretary said we need to deal with. That is about 80 000 people. I haven't got a good answer. Perhaps we have an update on that figure now on how far we have got in that work. Is it correct that I should interpret the Minister of Finance as a law that should remain in place? It is not something that the Social Democrats intend to tear up even in a situation that we will have on 9 September, when the Green Party falls out of the legislature, but it is legislation that should remain. Is that correct?
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-474	Mr. Old President! The Government revised migration legislation in autumn 2015. It is a piece of legislation that we have stuck to. It's a temporary law that's going out. There we Social Democrats go to elections to the effect that our assessment is that this legislation will have to remain in place. We are working in the EU to find a long-term solution in which we in the EU share responsibility jointly and severally. Oscar Sjöstedt says that he has no need for an increase in child benefit. No, of course Oscar Sjöstedt doesn't. Especially with the very large tax cuts proposed by the Swedish Democrats for Oscar Sjöstedt, Jimmie Åkesson and other leading representatives of the Swedish Democrats. That is the policy of the Swedish Democrats. Tax cuts for those who earn the most. Lower child allowance for ordinary families with children. There are too small gaps in Sweden. There is too little in the wallet for the MPs of the Swedish Democrats. There's too much in the wallet for single nurses. This is the economic policy of the Swedish Democrats.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-477	Mr. Old President! There's a lot of things you could talk about. The government's failure in terms of access to healthcare, security and a wide range of areas. This applies, in particular, to the dual labour market, which has grown during its term of office. I was going to raise an issue that I have raised many times. Today may be the last chance to get an answer to that question. It is about the special wage tax that the government announced early and then implemented for older workers. People over 65 years of age received a special wage tax if they chose to remain in the labour market. We are now seeing the result of this. The county councils that could so well need experienced doctors, nurses, nurses, health professionals and midwives have had dramatically increased costs of having the people employed. They have not, to the extent that they would have had to offer those people good conditions for them to stay and contribute their experiences for a few years extra if they so wish. The government considered last autumn that it had a little over 40 billion in scope for reform. Nevertheless, it did not choose to remove the payroll tax. Now, on April 18, after almost four years, the government is proposing SEK 200 million, which will specifically go to improving conditions so that more 65-plus will have the opportunity to work further up in the years in the county councils. If you looked up too little and too late in a new encyclopedia, you would see that that was what happened on 18 April 2018, when the government presented 200 million for this purpose after having withdrawn billions from the same area.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-482	Mr. Old President! When you listen to Jakob Forssmed you easily get the impression that it is more expensive for county councils to have doctors, nurses and nurses over 65 years of age employed than people under 65. This is not the case, but there is a tax discount for the employer to have older staff employed. It is a tax rebate that continues to be significant despite the correction we made. We made this correction in a situation when Sweden had a deficit of SEK 60 billion that Jakob Forssmed and the Alliance left behind. We have invested the money we have received in municipalities and county councils to maintain good service, and it is more money that has gone to municipalities and county councils than the increased cost of the special payroll tax – a slightly lower tax discount than before – has been, so what the government has done has been a very large plus deal for municipalities and county councils during this term. We also see the result: 100 000 more people employed in our welfare activities. We also see that the healthcare system performs more treatments than before. Of course – there are also more of us in the Swedish people.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-484	Mr. Old President! It is not forbidden or dangerous to say at some point in your life, ‘ Perhaps that was wrong. ' Maybe we should have changed it earlier. Maybe we shouldn't have introduced a special payroll tax on older workers. Or maybe we should have just had it for a year. When growth comes, one can praise one's own policies and remove the tax. But the government hasn't. You had 40 billion in reform space last autumn but chose to put it on free bus cards for all schoolchildren, on e-bike premiums, on electric boat engine premiums and whatever it was. But this one would still be kept, the special payroll tax on the elderly who work. And now, on April 18, it is discovered that this affects the county councils – Jämtland, Gävleborg and what it is about for county councils – who have many older employees and need that expertise. SKL points to an enormous need for recruitment and to the fact that without this experienced group we are unlikely to be able to cope with the skills supply in healthcare. Yet the treasure must remain. And then you put 200 million on 18 April, at the end of your term of office, because... I don't know, show that you may have noticed the problem. You could say, that was wrong. That was stupid. We should not impose special wage taxes on older people who want to remain and contribute their know-how and skills. ..................................................... We also know that the more older people who stay and contribute their experiences, the more older people who choose to stay for a few years, the better the well-being we get – and the more jobs we get for young people, because it has been shown that there is a connection: More young people can get into work when older people stay and contribute a little longer.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-488	Mr. Old President! If it were the case that the only thing the government had done for the county councils and health care during this term of office was to add the additional 200 million in the spring change budget, Jakob Forssmed's reasoning would have been connected. Fortunately, that is not the case. We have seen to it that the deficit in public finances left behind by the Christian Democrats and the other alliance parties has been precipitated. We have turned it into a surplus while we have been able to invest SEK 35 billion in welfare operations. In the autumn budget, we made a special investment in health care of over SEK 5 billion, precisely so that you can continue to hire more and retain more staff. We have therefore made very substantial investments in health care and these activities during our term of office. We also see results: 100 000 more employees. We hope, of course, that many of the public employers see the potential of older and experienced public employees and try to attract them back by all means. We have given them the resources to do this, and not just in the form of a targeted state subsidy. It is the big, general stakes that are important. On the other hand, I find it unfortunate that people are ironing out over free bus cards. This is something that means an incredible amount this summer to our children and young people around Sweden. It is an opportunity not to get caught in the suburbs but to take the bus or metro into town, to the bath or to the classmates. It increases freedom, and it increases playfulness among our children and young people. It's a really good reform. With that I wish my fellow debaters a really nice summer!
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-493	Mr. Old President! It's been a while since you've been standing here. The debate on the economic policy guidelines can easily be short-term, and the focus can easily be on the main issues of conflict in the forthcoming electoral movement. But this is also a good opportunity to raise your eyes a little bit backwards but above all forward, to see how Sweden can continue to be one of the world's best countries to live in – to be born and grow up in or come to – even when the world changes and places new demands on us, just as it has always done. On 11 May 2000, I spoke in here for the very first time. I was in place for a few weeks for Carl Bildt, who was away on one of his many foreign missions. I was very nervous, and it felt great to have a minute's speaking time against the then Finance Minister Bosse Ringholm. My question was about why it was so difficult and expensive to build housing. The Minister of Finance did not answer the question with any proposal or political content or so, but mostly by criticising the Moderates in a loud tone. Some things have remained unchanged since that time 18 years ago. But in many other ways some things have happened since the year 2000. The students who ran out the other week were babies then. In 2000 we were adults at the time talking about how modern everything was going to be. You kids back then, ask your parents what the Millennial Bug was! We were obsessed with it. It ‐ companies then flourished, much because of our fear of this bug. We were still using landlines. We pulled cash when we physically went to the store. We read the newspaper on paper in the morning at the beginning of media days that were about 24 hours long. Few could have imagined that one day we would follow the football World Cup in the summer on each of their small screen without more cord than the little white one you have in your ear. Vladimir Putin had just won the Russian presidential election for the first time in 2000. Few could have guessed how he would use that power 18 years later. In fact, Donald Trump ran a presidential campaign in 2000, albeit without the attention he received later. So there were also six years left until Twitter was founded. Viktor Orbán, who was once awarded a scholarship by George Soros to study in the UK, was vice-chairman of the Liberal International Cooperation Organisation and opposed both communists and conservatives at home in Hungary. The EU still had 15 members – more than in a long time, we felt that we had just been allowed to join. Few had believed in that time that four bourgeois parties could unite not only about the economy but also about much else and win the elections in 2006 – and be re-elected in 2010 with reinforced support. Eight bourgeois budget proposals we produced. That may sound technical, but they laid the foundations for the strong economy that we are still feeling today. It was an honour to sit in here and vote in favour of these first four budget proposals. It was an honour to vote for the next four too, although it was a little more challenging in the Committee on Finance and the House on the way there. But it worked. It held together, and we received visitors from other countries who came here in Sweden to study our strong budget process, which did not allow the government's collective proposal to be torn apart or exploded during parliamentary treatment – which can happen in other countries – despite the fact that we have so rarely had majority governments. This is a system that has made it possible for the overall budget that has the greatest support of the Swedish people to also go through the Riksdag and be implemented. It was only when Social Democrats and Swedish Democrats together weakened practices in autumn 2013 that this came to be fundamentally questioned. And when the Alliance's budget movement in autumn 2014 unexpectedly won and the government crisis was triggered, a new chapter in Swedish political history, which is far from finished, began. But this can now be continued by others when the newly elected parliament gathers in the autumn. It has been fun, instructive and eventful to be on the journey all the way here – from replacements to back and forth as members, to meeting presidents, sitting where the oldest president is now, with the hall full of hundreds of parliamentarians from all over Europe when Sweden was the country holding the presidency in 2009, and all the way to participating in the party leadership debates itself, as the first moderate woman. I didn't think that those spring weeks 18 years ago! I have many to thank for good cooperation and very much fun during these years: all the friends of the Moderates and the Alliance of course, political opponents, for your contributions to the democratic dialogue, and also all the good officials here in Parliament. Politics is not just to think, say or write. It is also doing, implementing and legislating. Thank you to all of you who make political ideas a reality, or who, kindly but still firmly, point out to us when they cannot become reality! It is here, in this Parliament and in this House, that it is determined how strong the Swedish economy is in 18 years' time, but also how strong Swedish democracy is then. Now that our democracy is in its centenary, it is in fact in question. This is an enormous thing. Here, in one of the most stable societies in the world, where we have had peace for over 200 years, we are seriously having a debate on how to achieve our democracy in the future. For this we all have responsibilities. Authoritarian forces and voices are now gaining ground. The political debate is still taking place in here, but also in many other arenas outside, even by those who have completely different interests from building Sweden strong. We all have responsibility, especially for those of you who continue the election movement, for where that development will lead us and what it will do with our democracy. Indeed, history has shown that values such as freedom, openness and democracy can never be taken for granted, but must always be defended. There are not many of us here on earth, all of us who are Swedes. We cannot compete with size, proximity to the largest markets, language or weather – except possibly this spring. But we have each other, and we are all in a position to continue to be one of the world's strongest societies, even 18 years and more in the future. This places new demands on us. Old jobs disappear; they always have. But now we are all the more challenged by globalisation, digitalisation and robotics, by China, India and other regions that are growing and by a troubled world, where almost 70 million people are on the run. There are people in Sweden who perhaps came that spring 18 years ago but who still haven't entered our society – who still don't work, don't know the language and don't stand on their own. But everyone must be able to do so. We must never abandon that goal. In Sweden, anyone must be able to be anything. That's how we build a society that's both strong and stick together. What will machines do in 18 years' time as people do today? What kind of labour market does that make? So what kind of job is there that doesn't exist today? Have the new big companies their head office in Sweden, or has it become too expensive and complicated and too difficult to obtain competence? Do all children learn enough in school to compete for the new jobs? Can we perhaps cure cancer, and if so, can anyone who needs treatment have access to it on time? Are we in NATO? How does the EU work? And how strong is Sweden's voice in the contexts that affect us? And have we finally begun to judge each other by what you do, not who you are, regardless of gender, origin or where else you come from? These issues do not always fit in the election campaign or in the television debates, where you only have a few seconds to try to make your point, and it should be screwed up. But they will have to be answered, and Sweden can do well. The election debate is often about problems and conflicts. But if we lift our eyes just a little we know that Sweden has better conditions than most. Sweden knows more. We can go further than we ourselves sometimes think is possible. We can reach the top of the world, in football but also in economics and as a country to live in for everyone. Take that chance!
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-515	Mr. Old President! Let's keep going! I would also like to thank Anna Kinberg Batra. I was also going to look back because I've been around for a long time, me too. I also want to take this opportunity to thank you, Anna, who is getting so much hugging right now, for the cooperation. We haven't exactly had the same political outlook on life, but I thank you for your commitment. You had to take the fall of the patriarchy that rules the norm in society, but I hope you find a new place in life and have exciting challenges. Thank you very much. Of course, a lot has happened during this time. I can afford to look back a little bit on what has happened since I came in 1994, just as the old president can do. At the moment we are booming, and we have taken responsibility for politics thanks to the Social Democratic-led government. We have a smart finance minister and a policy for a strong society, welfare and investment for jobs. The bourgeois representatives, who left us now, usually claim that Sweden is doing well just because it is booming. But we know that it is structural changes, together with the boom, that make things better for Sweden than for other countries that are also in the same boom. We have a labour market policy that is now working, unlike, for example, the reduction in employers' contributions for young people from the last parliamentary term, when youth unemployment skyrocketed. Now it is lower than in 16 years. We have 300 000 more in work, 13 000 more in health care and 28 000 more in school. Children's allowance has been increased, and efforts have been made to promote gender equality. As I said, I can afford to contribute a little historical flashback. A lot has happened. Among other things, we have become much more numerous. When I came in in 1994, we were 8 to 8.5 million inhabitants. Now we are more than 10 million, partly because we have a strong welfare. People live longer and longer, and more children are born. During this time the economy has gone up and down. When I came in in 1994, we took over an economic crisis after the Carl Bildt government. You remember, 500 percent interest. The huge budget deficit that the newly elected Social Democratic Government then had to take over increased every day because the lenders put pressure on Sweden. We put t in a fox trap. It was very hard to get out. It was very tough for a lot of people with the savings programme that was developed, but we managed to take Sweden out of a difficult time thanks to responsible decisions. Finally, we also received support from the Center Party. I would like to thank any centre representatives who are listening for that. The Center Party made it possible for us to get out of the crisis. At that time, we also set up budgetary frameworks, which the then Finance Minister together with the current Finance Minister worked out. I note that Anna Kinberg Batra told me that the bourgeois government was allowed to receive foreign visitors who wanted to look at the principle of the Swedish budgetary framework. But it was the Social Democratic Government that had drawn up the financial perspectives. The budgetary framework also helped in the next crisis that came. I'll be right back to that crisis. I would also like to mention the high level of unemployment that was. When we took over 1994, we had mass unemployment. I think some of you remember that we then set ourselves a target of halving unemployment. The bourgeois representatives scoffed at us and said that if we could do it, pukling would be the most popular dish in Sweden. I do these historical flashbacks, because I believe that many people sometimes forget what has happened in this short time. It is very important for us to remember what has happened in order to be able to make good decisions for the future, so that we do not end up in the same difficulties again. Of course, we succeeded in pushing down unemployment! We did very well. The jobs flowed, thanks to a conscious policy. The Swedish people, however, did not get a hangman as a favorite dish, and I am very happy about that. So the bourgeois politicians were wrong there too. So it went well for Sweden. But this is a historical look back. Unfortunately, in 2004 the bourgeois parties won the elections and formed a government. Then we still had job growth. The jobs flowed to. Anders Borg said it would take two years for bourgeois politics to begin to bite and be seen for real. And what happened? After two years, bourgeois politics began to bite at the same time as the international economic crisis struck with full force. This led to mass unemployment, economic crisis and increased gaps. Bourgeois policy diluted the crisis because labour market policy had deteriorated. Things got worse for those who had the worst. The unemployed were not helped to convert. They were locked in phase 3 and became poorer and so on. In addition, youth unemployment was so high that we were supported by the European Union. As usual, the bourgeois had a single solution, namely tax reductions. They thought that they could reduce taxes and thus get out of this crisis too and solve the problems, but that did not help. It was just the opposite. The huge youth unemployment rate was not reduced by reducing employers' contributions. Nevertheless, the bourgeois parties pleaded for it and claimed that unemployment would go on high if we won the elections. But they got it wrong there too. Thus, youth unemployment is now lower than in 16 years. Mr. Old President! With this, I would like to say that it matters very much who runs the country. When we have a Social Democratic-led government, we manage to have both a boom in the world and a smart policy that is wise, with investment in infrastructure, housing and education. That is what is a wise policy for the future. Finally, I would like to point out a few highlights. One of them is public procurement. I think we have made a good decision, but it took some time to get through changes in public procurement because the bourgeois parties, including the xenophobic Swedish Democrats, voted down our proposals. They did not want the state and the municipality to be able to make demands on fair terms. We saw examples of wages of 27 kroner an hour, for which rogue companies were able to hire people for and thus compete out serious entrepreneurs. That's not good. I think the bourgeois parties realized that it was not so good that we did not get our proposals through. After some changes and negotiations, we finally got through a modified proposal. It was a good thing, for now municipalities, county councils, regions and government agencies can make demands. Swedish salaries shall apply in Sweden to drivers, cleaners and chefs. So the SD did not want it, but they wanted companies that exploit foreign labour to continue to drive down wages in Sweden. I am pleased that the Swedish Democrats are not in charge of this country, and I very much hope that they will not have the chance to do so at some point. I hope that the voters will see through their scapegoats. Another thing that has happened during this term of office and which I also want to highlight is about more money for cancer care. For me this is important to mention because I have a very close relative who was close to dying of cancer at the age of 16. Those who stand here in the speaker's chair and say that we are not getting anything for the tax money do not know what they are talking about. They don't have a close relative close to dying of cancer. If you have been seriously ill, you know what you get for the tax money. We know that. I think there are a lot of people who have experienced similar things and can agree. However, we should not underscore the fact that there are major challenges, not least because we have become considerably more in Sweden. Then we need more investment in welfare. More money and better quality are needed. This is far more important than tax cuts. Of course, a great deal has happened, Mr. Old President, and now that I end up as a Member of Parliament, I would like to tell you that I am very proud of what we have done. I am particularly pleased with the broadband expansion, because it was started when I was an IT politician. I am pleased to have been involved in deciding on the Swedish Sex Purchase Act. I am proud of the efforts on gender equality, parental insurance and the increased child benefit. Thank you, everyone, for good cooperation, and good luck to continue!
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-539	Mr. Old President! Speakers after speaker describe the economy as good when we have strong growth. Then they have ideas about how it can grow a little more: More resources for everything! It is easy to point out the good examples. The Minister of Finance, who I think is a recognised competent person, has gone through what you can do when you have increased resources. But even if unemployment decreases and reported emissions decrease, we forget one important thing: there will be fewer natural resources for our children and grandchildren. It is equally true that the income gap among those who have jobs is increasing, as is the increase in emissions. Only by taking into account increased forest growth and ignoring the increased emissions of aviation will the figures go down. The question is also how sustainable forest growth is when it consists of huge plantations with a lack of biodiversity. They are more sensitive to climate change than natural forests with different species of mixed age. But Mother Earth doesn't care what we report. It is the real emissions that count, and they are increasing. In a future balancing economy that is not based on continuous expansion, the fair distribution of resources is of great importance. A powerful distribution policy will only be possible if the political sphere succeeds in breaking its subordination under the economic sphere. Economic democracy did not exist in the state-socialist countries of the Eastern bloc either. The official propaganda certainly claimed that all means of production were owned jointly by the people, but in practice all political power in one-party states was held by corrupt party elites with strongly repressive methods that maintained their position of power. The gap between the power elite and the rest of the population was shallow. And the absence of independent media made problems, such as serious environmental pollution, rarely subject to debate, much less resolved. Today, the gaps are growing so much that the economic elite are rushing away from the rest, while 50% of global trade is internal trade within giant groups, where prices are set administratively rather than through a free market. We risk going towards the worst of two worlds – a blue plan economy with the divides of capitalism and the predatory pursuit of resources from capitalism as well as the central control of the plan economy and the weakening of the individual's ability to create good living conditions, perhaps even at the cost of a global climate disaster. Let's look at the developments, Mr. Old President. I brought pictures to illustrate this better. One picture says more than 1,000 words. I think everyone here appreciates that I don't use 6,000 extra words. The dotted line is the bnp development globally over the past 50 years. The blue is the use of biomass, which is increasing. Fossil fuels are increasing. Metals are increasing. Non-metallic minerals are increasing. Everything's increasing. You can see that there is a clear link between growth and the use of natural resources, and the earth is a limited planet with limited resources. This is an unsustainable development. It is often said that we have enormous resource efficiency. We'll solve everything with it. But that's not true either. That's only true if you have a limited perspective. You can look at the richest countries. Yes, we get more production here with less use of resources, but it happens at the cost of the opposite in the poor countries. Globally, even in the last eight years, we have had a negative development of resource efficiency in creating our money. They say: Yes, but biofuels will solve everything. The bioeconomy solves all the problems. But it is also dependent on fossil raw materials in the end. Here is the curve of the world's use of phosphate – it is a very limited resource that a few countries can sell to us. Here, too, it rushes straight up. All these curves indicate that we have a completely unsustainable economic system. And that's not enough. I have figures coming from a RUT investigation that I requested, and here are the figures from our own budget. Here is the composition of gross income – it is a comparison between 1995 and 2015. For the 90 per cent with the lowest income, it is seen that there is a small increase – it is not very large. For the 9% who have a higher income, it is starting to take a little bit of speed. But it's for the percentage that's the richest that the numbers rush off. It's almost 3 1⁄2 million a year in income for them. What are the consequences for society? Well, here's the Gini coefficient-- it's a way of measuring the lowest incomes compared to the highest. The higher the coefficient, the more gaps we have in society. Here we see that, unfortunately, it does not matter what government we have had. It is gradually increasing, especially if capital income is included. We can look again at how much we have changed our economic standard between 1995 and 2016. Every small stack here is 1 percent of the population. To the left are those with the lowest income, and to the right are those with the highest income. You can see that the masses have increased their incomes by 50%. Maybe it's not that bad. But you can look at the small, small bar on the far right. Then you can see that it is not a small change, but it is a huge change of almost 350 percent. The small percentage grabbing an increasing share of earth's resources, which are limited. Almost everyone who has regular white jobs can afford life's basic needs. But the joy of life disappears when the pressure at work becomes enormous and when, despite efforts, you see how others are constantly getting better than yourself. In a well-developed society, people become happier by a more equal distribution than by constantly increasing the production of gadgets as symbols of prosperity and by positioning among the rich. Mr. Old President! My jacket was given to me 30 years ago by my father. Before that, he had been using it himself for almost 20 years. But it's still able to handle the Parliament's dress code, isn't it? I'm getting a nod from the old president. The vast majority no longer buy things to meet absolute needs, but they buy symbols of prosperity. It's about a willingness to blend in with the latest trend in advertising. It's called positional consumption. It is a question of positioning oneself in the economic hierarchy. The greater the gap, the more important it will be to succeed economically. Anyone who cannot live in the right place risks a worse school and worse conditions for the children's future. When 60 percent of Americans thought their children would have a worse future, they chose Trump. Now it is 59% who believe that their children will be worse off than themselves. It is time to re-focus the economy on social and ecological sustainability and not make it dependent on constant growth to work. Society with gaps is also worse for the environment. Reducing gaps is an environmental issue as well as a social issue. We have to solve both at the same time. That was the basis for my whole political commitment. The report also talks about the importance of cohesion and the environment, but we have seen the curves here today. We're not gonna make it. So what are we gonna do? How can we change this? Sweden is a tax haven for wealthy people. It's an objective truth. You don't have to be a left-wing party to say that. We have zero inheritance tax, zero gift tax, zero property tax and a minimum property tax for a 40-million-dollar chateau. Try to find another OECD country with such low taxes for billionaires! Unfortunately, it has not helped any government we have had so far. The Council notes that transfers are not rising in line with income and that the capital income of the richest are falling. Yet we do not discuss it. It is not the centre of the debate. Today's neoliberal capitalism with a swelling banking sector will naturally increase the gaps and the consumption of earth's natural resources, unless a strong policy pushes it within the earth's system boundaries and the limits of decency in terms of social divides. But here traditional social democracy has been on the defensive for 30 years. Now is the time for action and to take the initiative back. It costs political capital to close gaps. You have to have the courage to fight egotism, but I think people are a lot of people. The natural thing is to want to contribute. The nagging feeling of many that you no longer get as much back from the state is true, but it does not help voting for populists who capture your feeling but do not have a policy that changes reality. I don't understand the alliance parties-- they've now gone away-- who keep on nagging about this government raising all the taxes. We've made a small margin adjustment. Compare with 1990 and the tax rate that was then! That is 327 billion a year less in tax money than it was then, if we had kept the same tax rate. And compared to the year 2000, it is 262 billion less for the common. To say that some small tax increase has changed this is ridiculous. That's as far from the truth as you can get. What can we do? I realise, Mr. Old President, that I am going to be a little over my speaking time. There are so many positive examples I want to mention. Fortunately, we can reform the banking system to become more stable and fairer. Switzerland recently voted on the introduction of full reserve capital coverage. That would in a stroke eliminate the risk of bank rushes, and we would stop the world's greatest piracy. The banks create their own money instead of buying away every penny from the Riksbank. We're the ones who created the crown. Let the banks pay to use it, just as we do when we pay to watch a movie. Copyright shall also apply to money. It would also generate billions of dollars in seignorage. We can also take the fact that we are becoming more efficient with shorter working hours instead of increased consumption. Artificial intelligence will make many jobs unnecessary, but we can affirm the sustainable and democratic development of that technology if the prosperity of that development is distributed fairly. Then wealth and property income must be taxed. After thousands of years of toil for bread, we can finally free man from working long days just to survive. We can finally work shorter days and have more free time to develop our skills. A larger part of the day can be devoted to social gatherings and voluntary and voluntary work. We haven't been happier since my dad bought this jacket nearly 50 years ago, but we are several times richer and constantly looking for more wealth at the expense of our last primeval forests, fish and minerals. It is an out-of-date policy. Basic income – I am sorry to mention that word in this House; I know it is controversial – is a perfect green left and right reform. Basic income is green, for it gives people the opportunity to realize dreams and to contribute to society without there necessarily being anyone paying for it. Many pay to cut down the tree where the white-backed woodpecker lives, but no one pays for the work of finding it and preserving it. Basic income is left, because it gives the opportunity to reject jobs with unfair conditions. Basic income is liberal, for it gives confidence to individuals to develop their future. There are many more reforms. Millions of Americans work in workers-controlled companies – a perfect model for taking over the pea factory in Bjuv or the biscuit factory in Kungälv, for example. Let us be inspired by the United States! Instead of yield requirements at the expense of the environment, publicly owned companies can be run as Network Rail in the UK, which places the public interest at the centre of target management and participation for everyone – staff, travellers, financiers. Let us be inspired by Britain! Let's use pension funds to invest in sustainable transition as Calpers, the world's largest pension fund, did in California. They had energy shortages, high unemployment and too much speculation. Then they built with direct investment renewable energy. It created jobs, it created returns and it solved energy problems. There we can talk about active management for rapid and sustainable change in society – better than picking up all the money on the stock market and speculating. Let us reintroduce the Kronodel Institute and thereby divide the profits from mines and ensure that if we empty the earth's crust, it will come to future and present generations instead of Canadian mining companies. Let us be inspired by the Social Democrats of the 1970s! Let us introduce a capital transaction tax that provides new, redistributive revenues. Let us be inspired by the tens of EU countries! Let us be inspired by the cooperative economy in Mondragon, Spain, which can cope with crises and build win-win solutions in local entrepreneurship. Let us make it easier for the new forms of companies that create a cooperative economy and move power to you instead of the global groups: companies, Community companies, rural companies. I've taken part in the opening of some of these myself. Let us regain power from the global giant groups and strengthen a local and resilient economy that can withstand interference, something that I suppose the Center would have liked if they were here. My time is up, and I am therefore referring to Valter Mutts and Annika Lillemet's next speech, which highlights even more positive examples from our motion on solidarity economy. Never have we faced such an acute crisis of biodiversity and climate, but the amazing thing is that the solutions provide better lives: more time for personal development, reduced gaps, more own power in the workplace and new jobs where power is transferred from a pension manager in Chicago to the one who does the job. It is a question of regulating the banking system, which makes it stable and shares the excess profits. It is a policy of increased happiness that happens to save the climate and stabilise the economy. This is what you get if you vote "yes" to "Act 19" in our motion 2017/ 18:2962. I propose that the sentence be approved. Even if the whole motion were to be approved, I understand that all these radical thoughts can be very much to swallow in a speech in this House. However, setting up a centre that examines the possibility and draws inspiration from all over the world to a more inclusive economy may in fact be acceptable to the House. Today's climate debate is about to come, but it is actually this debate that is the real climate debate. If we do not adapt our economic system to earth's conditions, we will have to adapt to floods, droughts, storms, mass extinction of species and mass exodus of people. We can work this out. Neither the 40-hour week nor the banking rules are written in stone on commandment boards. They are laws that can be changed by ordinary parliamentarians in ordinary parliaments. But perhaps at least courageous politicians and unusually wise decisions are needed to have the courage to do so.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-580	Mr. Old President! The Social Democratic MPs from Jönköping County have exercised the need to review the distribution of income and wealth in our country and to make concrete proposals to increase equality. The background is that inequality, the gaps, has increased sharply in our country. Since the 1990s, the 10 per cent with the lowest income have had an increase in income of 14 per cent, while the 10 per cent with the highest income have had an increase of 90 per cent. Relative poverty, those with a lower income than 50 per cent of median income, has increased from 4 to 12 per cent of the population. The richest 10% have, on average, increased their wealth by 50 percent. The point of departure for equality is the equal value of all men. There are small gaps and a society that holds together and is characterised by solidarity. Some important political keys are full employment, a common economy that secures well-being and democracy that embeds and controls market forces. Such a social democratic reform policy has historically provided a huge increase in freedom for many people in our country. In Ernst Wigforss' words: Equality in freedom, that one's freedom is as important as that of the other. Mr. Old President! For a few decades, with acceleration during the moderated eight years, politics has changed from equality to neoliberalism. Neoliberalism is the opposite of equality. Neo-liberalism is liberalisation, the privatisation of economic power to the market and the regulation and limitation of politics and democracy. In practical policy, it is about increased profits, greater pay differentials and supply policies, where the individual should have his/her own responsibility for unemployment and disease. It is the creation of a market for health care, care and education, and it is tax cuts. This has changed our country, made it more lonely and made us weaker. A society characterised by increased divisions and unrest can never create everyone's freedom. That is why equality must become central to politics. A number of reputable international economists warn against the widening divides in our world. It inhibits growth and leads to increased polarisation and social conflicts. The Social Democratic-led government has begun to reverse developments. The emphasis on common, income gains for families with children, pensioners and students and improved social insurance have led us in the right direction. The issue of equality must become absolutely central to the electoral movement. Democracy must be broadened and solidarity restored as the natural state of our people. A society whose goal is the freedom of all people is a healthier society.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-590	Mr President, I would like to An economy based on solidarity over time and space with people in our country and the rest of the world, with future generations, with animals and nature, what would it look like in practice? It would of course be very different from today's system, whose serious flaws Carl Schlyter has just described so well. According to the report that Parliament is debating and deciding today, the focus on economic policy is to increase security, sustainability and equality throughout the country. The government and the committee also want to invest in infrastructure, such as railways, as well as in housing and broadband. Excellent! If you are serious about this, you should be interested in the motion on solidarity economy that Valter Mutt, Carl Schlyter and I have written. The four proposals from the motion that are being discussed today are as follows: Develop an action plan for economic equality, establish a national centre of solidarity economy, investigate how the state can borrow more from itself via the Riksbank in order to accelerate the large infrastructure investments required by the climate change transition and introduce a government investment budget. I will briefly examine why all these proposals are urgent and also give some further examples of what they could give concretely beyond what Carl Schlyter has already said. Throughout, there is a need for innovation but also for better use of the tools that already exist. There is much to learn and inspired by, over time and space, and many good examples to reuse. Simply put, we do not usually need to reinvent the wheel in order to take important steps towards democratising the economy and making it fairer and more inclusive so that it serves everyone, not just the richest percentage or powerful special interests. Let us start with one thing that should be simple, namely investment. In municipalities and enterprises, investment costs are recorded through depreciation. Taking out loans to balance income and expenses for a long time should be as reasonable for a private person who installs solar cells as for a state that builds rail. Both are major investments in something that can be useful for a long time to come. However, according to the Budget Act, investments are to be financed from state budget appropriations. This means that investment in infrastructure competes with current expenditure such as child benefit and sickness benefit under expenditure ceilings that are often cheaply increased. But it doesn't have to be that way. Before 1976, Sweden's state budget was divided into an operating budget and a capital budget for investments. So what prevents us from changing the Budget Act so that it becomes so again, in order to reduce the risk of social investment being delayed or not taking place? Mr President, I would like to That is how I go about the next proposal, namely funding. Where will the money come from for new main roads and other investments? The answer could be that the state simply borrows from itself. It has been done, and is done, throughout history in many countries, such as Australia, New Zealand, India, Brazil, China and the United States. State banks have played and play an important role. An interesting example of how successful such a setup can be is Reconstruction Finance Corpora tion, RFC. During the 1930s and 1940s, it was the United States' largest company and the world's largest banking organization. The RFC financed President Roosevelt's New Deal programme to mitigate the effects of the deep economic crisis that followed the stock market crash in 1929. Unlike the way the Federal Reserve acted during the 2008 financial crisis, RFC did not consider it its primary task to rescue and provide credit to private banks, but provided loans directly to small businesses and other actors of the real economy around the United States. RFC also provided loans for large infrastructure projects, which were repaid through the revenues generated by the completed projects and thus not charged to the Treasury. If the State borrows from itself, no costs will leak to private intermediaries, and the State can also create the financial resources that are actually required when needed. I do not have time to immerse myself in the subject here, but I would like to recommend to all members of Parliament and other interested some summer reading on this theme: The Public Bank Solution by Ellen Brown. The book describes a large number of examples of how public banks have been useful throughout history in different countries. Mr President, I would like to Inequality causes many problems both for individuals and for communities. British epidemiologists Wilkinson and Pickett describe some of the consequences in their book Equal Opportunities, namely that more equal societies are almost always better for everyone, both richer and poorer. This applies to both health and social conditions. In fact, it may be justified to have a warning sign: or that inequality seriously harms yourself, your children, and the country in which you live. ..................................................... The income gap has grown faster in Sweden since the 1980s than in any other OECD country. Statistics and research show that the increase in economic inequality is partly due to the fact that capital income has grown faster than wage income, and partly due to the dismantling of Swedish distribution policy, or rather to the reversal of distribution from the poor to the rich. When Sweden joined the EU, we had one of the most progressive tax systems among the Member States. But now it's the other way around. It is therefore a serious misunderstanding to believe that, as it is sometimes portrayed, economic inequality would, above all, be a labour market problem. While unemployment has fallen, disparities have increased. Income differentials were significantly smaller when mass unemployment was at its worst in the 1990s. Against this background, reforms aimed at increasing the rate of progress on the tax scale are well justified. Tax after viability is an important principle. It is reasonable that those who are better off financially contribute more to the common than those who are worse off. Furthermore, it is unreasonable for income from gainful employment to be taxed more heavily than other income and assets. For example, the person who inherits by definition has not worked together for himself what he or she receives but now avoids total tax on the inheritance. And seriously, if a country like Switzerland is taxing inheritance and wealth, why shouldn't Sweden be able to do that? It is worth noting that the OECD report this year advocates that countries, in order to reduce inequality, should consider introducing or increasing taxes on assets and transfers thereof, in particular raising inheritance taxes. It's worth watching. If targets are to become a reality, we need a solid action plan with concrete measures for how to get there, just as we propose in our motion to reduce inequality. What should be included in such a plan? That's all possible, of course, and that's what you have to work with. But progressive inheritance and wealth taxes should be one of the measures. Abolishing RUT and ROT subsidies as well, which primarily benefit those who are well-off. Yeah, there's a lot more. It is also a fact that the problem for those who are economically poor is that they have a lack of money and that the easiest way to remedy that deficiency is to ensure that they receive money. Thus, all the experiments with unconditional basic income – that is, money in the hands of people just because they are human beings and not depending on what they have achieved, at regular intervals so that they can survive – that are planned, ongoing and made around the world, for example in Finland, the Netherlands, India, Scotland and Canada, should be interesting for us in Sweden to follow and be inspired by. In Alaska, since the early 1980s, companies extracting raw materials have to pay a tax that goes into a fund, the Alaska Permanent Fund. Some of the funds go to welfare, but every Alaskan citizen also receives an annual dividend. This has contributed to low inequality in Alaska compared to other U.S. states. Mr President, I would like to I have given some examples of concrete measures that could contribute to a more inclusive economy. It may be a question of government investment budgets, of the state borrowing itself to invest in infrastructure, for example, an action plan for greater economic equality that could include some form of basic income and taxation of inheritance and wealth, and so on. None of these are utopias but taken from reality. And, of course, there's a lot more. That is why we need a national centre of solidarity within the framework of nature. It could be of great benefit by searching for and disseminating information on the following examples in the outside world. Such a centre could also develop its own concrete models and support pilot projects. Information is often enough; there is no need for legislative changes or for public money. Finally, let me give just one example to tempt you. Regionalwert AG, literally translated from German Regional Value AB, is a venture capital company in Freiburg, Germany, founded by vegetable grower Christian Elevator in 2006. He became the social entrepreneur of the year in Germany in 2009. Citizens can buy shares in the company, which then invests in companies in the region producing, processing or selling food – the whole value chain. The concept is spreading, the company is growing and ten Regionalwert AG in Germany and one in Catalonia is in operation or planned. This is an idea well worth spreading to entrepreneurs and ordinary citizens who want to eat good, locally produced food also in Sweden? I could give many more examples. But I have already exceeded my speaking time, so I will conclude now, Mr President, by saying that we Members of Parliament must remember who we represent, namely the citizens – all citizens – not just the richest percentage or powerful special interests. And we also have a responsibility for future generations, so we all need knowledge and inspiration to steer the economy so that it becomes sustainable for real. That is why I also support motion No 19 of motion 2017/ 18:2962 for the establishment of a national centre for the economy of solidarity. Thank you for me.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-615	Mr President, I would like to Honours the Fiscal Council, quoted in this report, which states that we are moving towards an increasingly unequal society and that, most importantly, capital income has increased and become more concentrated in high levels of income. This is difficult a development that can go on indefinitely, but at the end of the day society risks bursting to pieces and becoming a number of specialities with widely differing living conditions. After all, this ominous development is now not the result of any natural disaster, but very much man-made and thus possible to influence. In fact, Sweden does not have to be the only country in the whole industrialized world that lacks both inheritance tax and gift tax and wealth tax. How can anyone really be surprised that inequality is rising dramatically – yes, at times the fastest in the entire OECD area – when both Social Democratic and bourgeois finance ministers act according to the principle of the one who has to be given? Even a cautious reintroduction of asset taxes could increase transfers to those most in need, and we could start moving towards a social order of each one according to needs and from each one according to ability. Supply taxes could also contribute to the financing of the very large infrastructure investments ahead of us, if we are to have a chance to slow global warming to a maximum of 1.5 degrees. However, other instruments are also required for this, and those of us who have written motion 2962 on the economy of solidarity are proposing an investigation into whether it would be possible for the state to borrow significantly more than today through the Riksbank itself for investments that over time pay off of itself. Mr President, I would like to It is thus the order that prevailed in the United States during the New Deal era in the 1930s, when the public credit institution Reconstruction Finance Corporation was established. It is also, as I understand it, this regime which prevails in today's China and which allows huge investments in renewable energy and railways. The uplifting superpower is today world-wide in the expansion of solar energy, and China has built as much high-speed rail as all the other countries combined. It is an impressive but also frightening development that a Communist one-party state – in sharp contrast to the Soviet Union's inefficient economic system – is in this way gaining economic first class power in a number of future industries. Mr President, I would like to If the 19th century was the age of geopolitics, our century looks like the age of the geoeconomy. Then it is devastating if democracies commit themselves to an increasingly dysfunctional economic system dominated by resourceful special interests and wrongly referred to as a market economy, when in fact it is a kind of blue plan economy controlled by a few mega-groups. But, once again, economic systems are constructed by us people and nothing is destined, but we can choose a different path to the future from the supposedly market-liberal or, for that matter, the currently so successful but deeply authoritarian Chinese state capitalism. Mr President, I would like to In the outside world, theory development as well as practical attempts to build alternative economies are ongoing. In our motion on the economy of solidarity, we have been inspired by, among other things, the broad-based Next System Project, which for a number of years has reaped success in the United States and has opened up a window towards a completely different future from that prepared by Mr. Trump.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-621	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation 1 in the 2018 Spring Change Budget, which we are debating today. When we talk budget and figures are thrown to the right and left, it can be difficult for voters to understand what is much and what is little and in relation to what. The amending budget is not intended for operations in the right sense, but complements the ordinary budget if necessary. But one can still get a sense of political direction by looking at the size of the expenditure changes, that is, the additions or cuts made by the government. When we look at this amending budget, we can see that the vast majority of expenditure changes are under half a billion, which is, of course, small sums in this context. Only one investment of a total of 20 stands out and is over SEK 5 billion. This means that only this can be seen as a clear priority in the budgetary policy sense. It is not unusual in itself to increase the appropriations for certain areas of expenditure, because that is what the amending budget is for. However, the eyebrows are still being raised because there is a clear pattern of a specific area of expenditure that does not exist in the areas of health care, school and the police. The EUR 5 billion I am talking about is an addition made by the government to migration. It is, of course, remarkable, especially in view of the fact that the Social Democrats want to assert in every budget debate that this is the last time migration expenditure has increased. Nevertheless, they do so in the budget after budget, year after year. What, then, is systematically underestimating migration-related costs? To be honest, I do not know whether one does not want or understand the costs of migration. But what I do know is that if you cannot understand and analyse reality as politicians, you have no credibility. There is much to be said about the credibility of changing views to a very high degree ideological issue in which many, many years have been part of the establishment which has not only reduced the costs of immigration but also completely denied their existence. Nor does the way it has been done fall within the framework of what can be regarded as normal in a democracy. The silent majority, which has long been pointing out what is now accepted as objective facts, has been discredited and insulted. Understand me, I am in favour of reconsidering and questioning. That is how you develop your own policy, and we shall continue to do so. But I would like to highlight in particular a fundamental dividing line on this issue: the Swedish Democrats always want to pursue a tight immigration policy and not only when it is an election year. Mr President, I would like to In the preparatory work on the bill adopted by the previous Parliament in 2014 with amendments to the Parliamentary Order and the Budget Act, the following can be read: The purpose of proposals for amendments to the budget is, above all, to supplement the budget decided by the Riksdag in response to changes that were not foreseeable at the time of the decision. Mr President, I would like to It is, of course, unreasonable to demand that expenditure trends be accurately anticipated. There will always be a few million in certain areas of expenditure; that is normal. However, raising billions in addition to the regular budget to one and the same category of expenditure year after year is not normal. It is strange, to say the least, that the government does not succeed better in anticipating the consequences of its own policies. Four times this parliamentary term, I have pointed out that the costs of immigration have been greatly underestimated, and four times since then, expenditure has continued to increase. There is talk of a tougher approach to migration policy. But there's only going to be talk of tougher moves, no more or less. You say one thing and then you do another. The protests from within the party against the pointed Social Democratic rhetoric are loud as all side associations are against the party's new line. How will voters understand what the Social Democrats really want when they themselves do not even seem to understand it? We had not even had time to submit this amending budget before the next immigration bill came – in the form of an additional amending budget of SEK 3 billion for 9 000 Afghan men, SEK 3 billion to put 9 000 adult Afghan men without protection needs and with unclear identity in Swedish schools with young people and children. This is actually a Social Democratic immigration policy. What is the indication that this is the last time? If the Social Democrats were to have four more years in power, what would indicate that we would have a tougher migration policy and that spending would be kept down? Given the policy they have pursued so far, the answer is that nothing indicates it, absolutely nothing. Mass immigration will define the legacy that this government leaves behind, and I dare to promise you this: if I stand in this seat again in a year's time and the accident is there and the same government remains, we will be debating exactly the same thing that we have done every time in this report, namely increased appropriations for Category 8 Migration.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-636	Mr President, I would like to Every autumn, the Government puts a proposal on Parliament's table on how the state's budget should be designed and distributed. The proposal is based on the tasks that the government has just after the summer and is of course based on the government's political orientation. The economic policy for this year was therefore proposed almost a year ago and decided in the autumn of last year. What we are now debating is that, since then, new data have been submitted with an impact on the budget. That is precisely why we have amending budgets. One of these data is that we now have figures on a debt that the state has to the municipalities. The debt is SEK 5 billion, and it is zeroed through this spring change budget. It is a purely corrective line, which the Swedish democrats are opposed to. The costs have already been borne by the municipalities. If the state does not repay its debt, the municipalities will be forced to cut back. To the SEK 13 billion that the Swedish democrats already want to cut down on welfare in Sweden, in municipalities and county councils, they thus add another SEK 5 billion. That's 18 billion. There are four other important actions in the amending budget. One is that the government is investing more in the police. The police receive SEK 200 million more this year, especially to improve equipment and protection. In addition, care for the elderly is added to SEK 350 million to take advantage of the possibilities of technology to improve the care and integrity of the elderly and staff's working environment. We are also investing in 10,000 more summer jobs for young people this summer, and already this year the health care system receives 600 million more to improve accessibility and staff supply. We invest more than SEK 1 billion in Swedish police, elderly care, health care and jobs for young people. It is a policy that fits well with the overall priority of the Social Democrats for a stronger society and a safer Sweden. I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservation.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-644	Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Olovsson wants to pay the municipalities afterwards. On the contrary, we believe that compensation should be provided within existing appropriations. It is not possible to have an authority that breaks the budget time and time again and receives more money year after year. It's untenable politics. Fredrik Olovsson also reports on the expenditure of this amending budget in the form of SEK 5 billion for immigration, plus that the government has submitted an additional amending budget of SEK 3 billion to 9 000 adult Afghan men without protection and with unclear identity. There will be a total of at least SEK 8 billion for mass immigration, in addition to the already decided record migration grant. I ask the honourable Member sincerely: when are the Social Democrats satisfied? When will that be enough? Is there any limit at all to how much tax money the government might be willing to spend on immigration?
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-647	Mr President, I would like to With the rescheduling of migration policies, migration costs are falling. However, we have a responsibility for the people who can stay in Sweden as quickly as possible to learn Swedish and enter our society. Therefore, in our budgets, we are increasing efforts to ensure that they learn the language and establish themselves in society. We Social Democrats have an important principle: the person who is in debt is not free. That is why we are amortising the public debt while paying off the debts that the state has, in this case to the municipalities. The municipalities represent a very large and important part of Swedish welfare. But Dennis Dioukarev and the Swedish Democrats want to cut 13 billion in the municipalities and not pay off the government's debt to the municipalities of 5 billion. This is what the political dividing lines are like in this case. How can you think that welfare will be better if you cut by 13 billion and refuse to pay the 5 billion government debt? Dennis Dioukarev should answer that. As far as migration policy is concerned, we Social Democrats have clearly said that we see that the tighter migration policy that applies since autumn 2015 will have to continue to apply in Sweden until we agree on a reasonable, solidarity-based system in Europe that means that Sweden takes its responsibility, but no more than its responsibility, and other countries do what they have not done in recent years. Dennis Dioukarev has to answer how 18 billion, 13 plus 5, in savings on municipalities will make welfare, school and care for the elderly, better.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-655	Mr President, I would like to I think Mr Olovsson knows how to read a budget, so I see the play about the municipalities as a sign of Social Democratic desperation. The Swedish Democrats have the same financial savings in the municipal sector as the government. We have significantly increased tax revenues due to several heavy tax reforms, and we have significantly reduced spending due to a responsible immigration policy – unlike the Social Democrats. We have better financial savings in the public sector. This can also be considered with alternative costs in terms of migration and integration policies. Each party is free to choose which groups it wants to prioritise, and it is clear which group the Social Democrats prioritise. What would happen if we spent $8 billion on poor pensioners, health care or the police instead of mass immigration? I can tell the honourable Member what would happen then. If we spent SEK 8 billion on the poor pensioners, we would lift them out of poverty. If we spent 8 billion on health care, we'd take out the care queues completely. If we spent 8 billion on the police, we could have raised the police salary by more than $1,000 a month. Why are these wrong priorities? Why do you give priority to the heroes of welfare, Fredrik Olovsson?
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-660	Mr President, I would like to This term of office we have increased the funding for municipalities and county councils, those who produce and pay for Swedish welfare, by SEK 35 billion. Now 100 000 more people are working in welfare. They do so because we have prioritised, and prioritised, precisely investments in welfare before reduced taxes. Dennis Dioukarev and the Swedish Democrats do exactly the opposite. They cut welfare to give priority to major tax cuts for those with good incomes. Anyone who earns over 100,000 a month can expect to have over 40,000 reduced taxes every year with Dennis Dioukarev's policy. He likes to talk about the poor pensioners, but he benefits himself and those who have good incomes. I think it would have been appropriate to tell the country's municipalities and thus also all the welfare heroes who work there why the state should not pay what the state has been owed. For me, that is a self-evident principle. Now we are making sure that the government's debt to the municipalities is zero, just as we continue to amortise the Swedish public debt, which has not been so low since 1977. This means that Sweden has a robust economy and can invest in welfare and jobs in the coming years. This will be important, because there will be many more children and older people in Sweden over the years to come. We're facing a demographic shift. We will build care for the elderly, childcare facilities, schools and health centres and train and hire nurses, preschool teachers, doctors and nurses in these activities. But then you have to have a state that makes sure you're innocent when it's got a debt. Now we all know that this principle does not apply to the Swedish Democrats.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-664	Mr President, I would like to A tweet with a hashtag triggered a feminist tsunami wave that, with brutal force, swept all over the world. It was a tweet that turned into a huge roar that created an earthquake throughout the patriarchy. Thousands of women broke through the culture of silence with common force. Metoo has shown that the sexual harassment suffered by women is not a small matter, but also that it is by organising us in a joint struggle that we make a difference. In our amending budget, we are taking an important step in the right direction. We are now allocating 120 million to metoo investments in working life, the judiciary, social services and school. It is thanks to the Left Party, not the government, that this becomes a reality. It is we who have picked up political demands from the Metoo and make concrete political proposals from them when the cry for change is heard. A good sex and cohabitation education gives students the chance to talk about norms and behaviour and find security in these issues. However, too many schools do not measure up. Therefore, we are now investing SEK 50 million in developing teaching and providing teachers with better support. It will be a learning boost for social secretaries about men's violence against women and other forms of violence in close relationships. We give a commission to the Swedish Work Environment Authority to develop information and education efforts with support to employers in working against sexual harassment. We know that unions play an important role. This is why an important effort is to strengthen state resources for regional safety representatives, which will address structural imbalances in the labour market. Earlier this spring, a united parliament decided to introduce consent legislation in order for men to understand that a no is a no. We are now giving a mandate to the Swedish Crime Victims Agency to carry out information and education efforts to increase knowledge about consent as the norm and about the new sex crime legislation. In order for the judiciary also to be covered, further information from the Swedish National Courts Authority on assistance to the Swedish Crime Victims Agency will now be available in educational efforts to learn about the new sex crime legislation. In addition, we increase the support for women's shelters that we have introduced by another SEK 50 million, to SEK 150 million. Men's violence against women and other forms of violence in relationships is a huge social problem. Too many women are subjected to violence or resentment. Here, the non-profit women's and girls' shelters carry out important work in providing support and protection to women who have been victims of violence. However, the financial situation of women's shelters is not problem-free, and in order to help more women, emergency services need increased support. Women's shelters have long had difficulties in carrying out long-term activities. The system of grants for one year at a time resulted in many women's shelters not knowing at the end of the year whether they could continue their activities next year. The women's shelters are doing a fantastic job with scarce resources. No violent woman seeking help should be denied a place. Now the national organisation for women's and girls' shelters also gets part of the money, and I think that is good. But remember: these are just some of the 90 reforms that we in the Left Party have achieved during the term of office. We have made a difference in Swedish politics. However, a spring change budget is not enough to deal with the economic inequality between women and men, with precarious working conditions that make managers stronger, with the destructive male standard that celebrates violence and with the unequal parental insurance, which leads to lower pay and lower pensions for women. As Lisa Ekdahl said: The Patriarchate will fall within your lifetime, so it's just as well that you come along. In this spring change budget, the Left Party has also pushed through investments in summer jobs for young people and in cultural and leisure activities for children and young people. It is important to have a meaningful summer, to get experiences for the coming working life but above all to have fun with your friends without even your parents' wallet controlling whether the summer vacation will be fun or not. It is therefore important to have free bus cards for young people, to keep the recreation centre open and to have good cultural and leisure activities. We also invest in health care in order for it to have good accessibility if you happen to get hurt this summer. Mr President, I would like to This is my last debate for the term of office. Now it is up to the electorate whether I can continue or not. I would like to wish Mr President and all Members of Parliament a pleasant summer and look forward to an intense election campaign. I support the committee's proposal.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-679	Mr President, I would like to Behind this somewhat cryptic case heading, increased powers are hidden for Finansinspektionen, an authority that at the end has already had substantially expanded opportunities to maintain financial stability and counteract financial imbalances in the economy. Financial stability is very damaging to a society. This risks having a negative impact on the financing of welfare, on jobs and employment and, in the long run, on wages. It is therefore gratifying that there is a large consensus in the Swedish Parliament that we should maintain good financial stability and place high demands on Swedish banks and on various financial actors. In this case there was originally a concern among the Alliance that the regulations or increased powers that Finansinspektionen now receives would lead to a deterioration in credit supply in the Swedish economy. Just as financial imbalances or financial instability can be detrimental to jobs, the economy and employment, even a deterioration in credit supply can be by making it more difficult for people to move to work, start businesses, realise ideas, drive innovation and so on. It is simply a balance between different interests, Mr President. The Alliance has therefore exercised on this – to ensure that these new powers for Finansinspektionen do not lead to a deterioration in credit supply in the economy. Since then, the whole committee has been able to agree on the wording that is in line with what we have been exercising on, and we therefore no longer believe that the proposal will be able to have the negative effects on the credit supply in the economy that we feared. It is now clear in the committee's text that the new powers of the Financial Supervisory Authority must not be used in such a way that credit supply is deteriorating in the economy. There is therefore agreement on the report. The motion originally drafted by the Alliance does not support it, but we believe that the committee's text takes this into account. With this perhaps not so transformative and innovative speech, I would like to wish Mr President and all my colleagues a happy summer.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-686	Mr President, I would like to The issue that concerns people most in Sweden is the issue of climate change. This is shown in the SOM Institute's measurements. I share this concern. The climate change that we talked about 15 years ago as something that would happen in the distant future is already here today. Climate change is moving fast. Today, the concentration of carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide is even higher than it has been at some point in the last 800 000 years. 2015 was the first year when the global measured average temperature was more than one degree higher than in pre-industrial times. And the years after have been warmer. At the same time, the number of extreme weather events has increased, also in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to This term of office has meant a great boost for Sweden's climate work and Sweden's contribution to the international climate work. Sweden will be the world's first fossil-free welfare country. Our country is going to be fossil-free, and on that journey, everyone is going. Urban transformation can put pressure on the individual. But if society stands strong and if we stand up for each other and jointly take responsibility for the environment and the climate, we can ensure that everyone can live a better life in the future. Swedish climate policy should be ambitious, long-term and stable. The framework for such a policy was established in this House a year ago, when the Parliament decided on a new climate law. I am pleased that so many of the parties in Parliament are behind it. The agreement means that Sweden will have net zero emissions in 2045 and that emissions in the transport sector will decrease by 70 per cent by 2030 compared to 2010. Mr President, I would like to The letter on climate policy that we are debating today is the government's presentation of the measures it has taken to achieve the climate objectives and a description of the continued focus. The climate issue is global. This is why the government has been very active in the international work. This concerns the work to get the Paris Agreement in place, the work to strengthen the UN Panel on Climate Change with competence and resources, and the financing of the Green Fund and a wide range of international collaborations to strengthen climate action. Sweden has also actively worked to eliminate fossil fuel subsidies internationally. Within the EU, Sweden has contributed constructively to get good climate legislation in place. The EU ETS has now improved. However, the process of including more sectors and holding down the number of allowances must continue in order to avoid major climate change. Mr President, I would like to Sweden will also continue to influence global climate efforts by being a leading country in the climate area. The world needs countries that demonstrate that sustainable development can be reconciled with prosperity and competitiveness. It is by going ahead and developing new technologies that we can inspire others to follow suit. It is by developing climate-smart services and products that our companies can withstand competition from other countries and thus contribute to jobs and welfare in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to When Sweden succeeds better than the agreements we have entered into, we get a surplus of allowances. During the previous government, the allowances that were not used were sold by Swedish citizens. However, during this term of office, the government has cancelled the emission units that have not been used, both in the Kyoto system and in the EU's decision on burden-sharing. It's important. Surplus due to Swedish emission reductions should not be released anywhere else or any other time. Mr President, I would like to The allocation for climate and the environment has doubled during this term of office. Through, for example, climate change, which all bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats want to abolish, 1,900 projects that contribute to large emission reductions have been granted part-financing. For a long time to come, these projects will contribute to lower emissions. Many of the projects are also such that they support a structural change that will last much longer than that. For example, 14 000 charging points for electric cars have been created in this way, charging points that are a prerequisite for the conversion to an electrified vehicle fleet. The transport sector is perhaps the toughest challenge for Sweden. The letter therefore sets out an action plan for fossil-free transport and electrification. The measures already taken by the government are presented. It is about the change of fuel, which means, among other things, that more and more biofuels should be mixed into petrol and diesel and which provides long-term rules for biofuel production and less emissions. This is a new vehicle tax, often abbreviated bonus – malus, which has been introduced. It gives the most climate-smart options a bonus and the most fuel-intensive cars have to pay more in tax. A road wear charge for heavy transport is investigated. The Government has also improved biogas's competitive conditions and is now investigating biogas's long-term conditions. The maintenance of the railway has been greatly strengthened in order for the trains to run on time. The new national plan includes the largest investment in trains in modern times. A flight tax has been introduced to enable aviation too to assume its responsibility for its climate impact, while at the same time investigating instruments for more biofuels in the aviation sector. Public transport investments have been implemented, as well as investments in bicycle infrastructure. Reducing emissions from the transport sector will remain a challenge. But important instruments are now in place. Mr President, I would like to Another challenge is the emissions from our consumption. The measurements used in the international climate context are based on the emissions occurring on the territory of a country. That's the way it should be. But for a long time the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has also been measuring the impact of Swedes' consumption, even those that cause emissions abroad. These measurements need to be improved and closely monitored in the future. Emissions in other countries from Swedish consumption have increased by 50 per cent over the last two decades. Our increased consumption of meat, as well as the increase in air travel abroad, has contributed particularly to the sharp increase. It is clear to us Social Democrats that the sustainability of trade must be increased and that emissions resulting from Swedish consumption must be reduced. Then it must also be easier to do the right thing. It should be easy for those who want to eat meat to choose the climate-smarter Swedish meat, not only in the shop but also at the restaurant. It shall be easy to recycle its waste. The circular economy requires a better use of our resources. Mr President, I would like to The third challenge is, of course, industry. Industry accounts for one third of Sweden's total climate emissions. In the report, the majority of committees propose a declaration that dual instruments should be avoided. To some extent, we agree with that. However, if the existing instruments are not sufficient, we must be able to do more. One example of this is the industrial life. It is aid that supports structural change in industry. The first project is inaugurated by Prime Minister Stefan Löfven today. I am of course talking about Hybrid, where SSAB, LKAB and Vattenfall work together to develop climate-smart steel. If it succeeds, it can significantly affect climate emissions, not only in Sweden but actually dramatically throughout the world. The government also supports the transformation of industry through Fossil-free Sweden and, for example, the collaboration on electromobility led by Rise in Borås. This type of project is an important prerequisite for the technological leaps required if Sweden is to become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. Mr President, I would like to If the government is now doing this much to reduce climate emissions, why not reduce emissions by more than the 1.4 percent that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's preliminary figures show? Is it not the most important thing that politics achieves results? Yes, of course it is. This government has chosen the long-term and sustainable path. We have invested in measures that will affect developments for a long time to come. No instruments that the previous government had made available have been removed. The super-environmental car premium has been replaced by a bonus – the Malus vehicle tax system instead. On the contrary, the government has taken a wide range of new measures and added more resources to reduce emissions quickly. We have noted that the opposition parties want to remove several of the measures that this government has taken. M, KD and SD want to cut the funding for nature and environment by around 30 percent. The results of this government's efforts will thus be reflected in reductions in emissions for many years to come. When the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency calculates the effects of the climate policy that was in place in 2016, adding the expansion of the Climate Tree, the bonus – the malus system for taxes on light vehicles and the change of fuel, their forecast is that the gap to Sweden's climate target for the non-contracting sector is greatly reduced. At the same time as emissions have decreased slightly in 2017, there has been a strong boom and job growth in Sweden. Unfortunately, it has had a negative impact on emissions. Mr President, I would like to All in all, this tells us that we must be prepared to do even more to turn Sweden into the world's first fossil-free welfare country. We want to continue this work after the autumn elections. Of course, what others want, they will have to answer for themselves, but I note that it takes quite a lot for a parliamentary party that opts for reduced petrol tax, to remove air tax and to phase out Climate Change to be able, with credibility, to say that it has a policy that achieves the goals. Even more is needed in order to be able to say with credibility that the polluter pays principle is upheld. Mr President, I would like to In the report, the committee proposes approval of two proposals. With regard to the proposal on the eco-labelling of fuels, I would like to mention that information on where the oil comes from is also valuable to the customer. I hope that the government's regulation can take this into account despite the complexity of the issue. With regard to the climate adaptation bill, it also contains good proposals that we consider necessary to strengthen our society's resilience to climate change. Mr President, I would like to Of course, we support all our reservations, but for the time to come, I only call for reservation 25 and for approval of the proposals in those parts of the report where we do not have a reservation.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-710	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating a number of issues relating to the climate and our Swedish climate work. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations Nos 19 and 26, although we naturally support all moderate reservations. I would also like to support the proposals contained in the report in those parts where we do not have reservations. Climate — This Question of Destiny! Sea levels are rising, extreme weather is becoming day-to-day weather and sensitive ecosystems are living under serious threats. There is no doubt whatsoever that climate policy leadership is needed here and now. Global climate policy leadership is needed, which is a real green example. I and the Moderates believe that a real front country is the country that can take the lead and reduce its emissions while growth can be good. Only if we show that reductions in emissions can be reconciled with the possibility for people to continue to realise their dreams can we be a real example not only for emerging countries such as China and India, but also for countries such as the United States. To manage to be a green forerunner, many parts are required. In my speech, I would like to highlight three important elements in particular. The first thing I want to highlight is hopefulness. Man has always been able to find solutions to difficult complex problems, and he can do so again. A real green leadership is about using the main resources you have as a country to show a possible path to a more sustainable society, to promote technology development and to take advantage of your own unique conditions. Therefore, we are investing far more in research in the environment and climate than the government. It happens that we are being criticised by our political opponents because this would mean that we do not want to bet here and now, but only in the future. Such criticism has not really understood the need for technological leaps to reduce emissions drastically. Nor has the potential of the Swedish engineering tradition been understood. If, thanks to great engineering and strong will, small Sweden can revolutionize the entire steel production process by moving from coal to hydrogen, we can, in addition to reducing our own emissions by about 10 percent, revolutionize an entire steel market globally and contribute to global climate benefits. In Sweden we also have unique assets in our forest. A productive forest addresses and binds carbon dioxide while contributing to sustainable alternatives to fossil-based materials and fuels. However, if forests are to play the important role in the climate change that they could do, freedom under responsibility must prevail in it. The fine natural values we now see in forest and land, and which many want to protect, is a product of freedom under responsibility. This principle is now under threat, and we are concerned to see how ownership is constantly being eroded. We want to put an end to this by strengthening the ownership of green industries for several reasons, but not least for the sake of the climate. Mr President, I would like to The second point I would like to highlight is the international work. For our political opponents also tend to criticise us for wanting to do too much in other countries. They seem to think that it stands in contrast to doing things here at home in Sweden. I think that if you're really going to be a green forerunner, you have to be able to do both. We are going to switch here at home, at a uniquely ambitious pace, but at the same time we must be able to help other countries make the growth journey that we have made – without making the same emission mistakes along the way. So acting locally is not at all in contrast to doing good globally, on the contrary. That is why we are spending more than twice as much as the government on international climate investment, and we want to redirect aid so that it more clearly focuses on reducing emissions. It is necessary if we are to meet the objectives of the Paris Agreement. It is also our duty if we are to live up to our ambitions to be a truly green forerunner. The third point I would like to highlight, Mr President, is precision. Sweden has broadly agreed on the world's perhaps most ambitious climate targets. The fact that all parties except the Swedish Democrats are behind the targets is a tremendous strength. But the targets are also binding. It is urgent if we are to reach the climate targets. The climate doesn't have time for detours. That is why this policy requires precision. Efforts are needed to make real use of them. Global leadership is therefore not about beating the chest because it has managed to plow down the most money into a budget called climate budget. No bet will be a real climate bet just because it gets the prefix, just as no party becomes really green because of the color of the party symbol. Mr President, I would like to I have no doubt that there are genuine ambitions on the part of the government parties, but we are not reaching all the way, because we are not able to prioritise and strive for the greatest possible benefit per invested chandelier. I am deeply convinced that if we are to meet the climate targets, we must treat climate policy with the same seriosity and respect as we treat other policies. Then we must ensure that every invested tax chandelier makes the greatest possible use of the climate. In fact, it's quite easy to reduce Swedish emissions quickly – it's just to make such tough demands that entire businesses move abroad. But then we have not done global climate benefit. Then we have not taken responsibility. Then we have not reduced emissions; then we have just moved them. Unfortunately, this is the case with the airline tax. Understand me correctly: I am genuinely frustrated about emissions from aviation, but I want Sweden to take real responsibility and not just move emissions to other countries. Unfortunately, that is what we are seeing now being done with the airline tax. European aviation is part of emissions trading. If our flight from Sweden is reduced, it means that you can fly more from another country, and that is not taking global responsibility. I am therefore pleased that a majority of committees have chosen to question the use of dual instruments by the government in this way. Mr President, I would like to In order to achieve policy precision, the impact of climate policy measures needs to be assessed. It is not good enough to spend large sums of money on measures that are believed or hoped to be useful. We have to make sure, as best we can, that the measure actually has an impact on the climate. Otherwise, it should not be implemented, but put the tax money where it is proven to be more useful – for the sake of the climate and for the sake of taxpayers. That is why we have proposed climate benefit calculations in all the budgets presented by the government. Unfortunately, the government parties are opposed to such calculations, and it is only regrettable. If they had, they would not have spent more than 1 billion on subsidising electric bicycles. Every wasted chandelier is a theft from all those who care about the climate. And they're the ones who care about the climate, and we need to take this important journey with us. People must have confidence in climate policy. Therefore, they must also feel that every tax chandelier with which they contribute is being used sensibly. In fact, this issue is big and important. It is about confidence in our tax system and confidence in politics. Every chandelier represents hard work. The Constitution gives us the right to withdraw and enforce it at the disposal of the public, but in the long term, if we are to maintain public confidence in our democratic system, we need to show respect for every tax chandelier that we demand from the people – including in the climate area. But it is also a question of showing respect for the importance of climate change. Anyone who really understands that the climate threat is serious should also understand how important each invested crown is in the climate work. To save the climate requires policies based on hopefulness, international work and precision. The moderates' climate policy is based on this very point, and we are convinced that only those parties that really understand the link between economic and ecological sustainability can be able to make a real difference to the climate. Not only Sweden but also the climate deserve a new, moderate-led government – now!
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-729	Mr President, I would like to I'd like to ask Maria Malmer Stenergard about the airline tax. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency believes that the combined climate impact of Swedish air travel accounts for as much climate impact as the entire Swedish passenger car traffic. Forecasts indicate that the climate impact of aviation alone within a few decades will be greater than from all other Swedish operations together. It is therefore high time to slow down this development. The Government has set up an investigation to increase the use of biofuels and continues to work actively for international solutions. My question to Maria Stenergard is this: how does the Moderates' 'no' to air tax go together with the 'polluter pays' principle that you say you support in this report? We have taxes on petrol, train travel and CO2 emissions, but aviation is not taxed at all.
i-UXtkzpCCavXmZpsFnVpxyY	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Åsa Westlund, for the question! As I said in my main speech, aviation emissions are extremely problematic, and this is something that we must work hard to bring down. I am pleased that, at European level, in the European Economic Area, we have received a price for emissions from aviation as a result of emissions trading. I am also pleased that this system will soon be tightened up. I think, like the majority of the committee, that it is problematic to impose a flight tax in addition. This means a dual instrument, which is something that we in the Environmental Objectives Committee have said we should not engage in. Besides, unfortunately, the airline tax is misdirected. The airlines that are struggling hard to reposition, who are really trying to take responsibility in all sorts of ways and which involve biofuels, are affected in exactly the same way as those who do not care. Thus, the tax does not properly reflect the emissions it has. With regard to international aviation, which is not covered by emissions trading, it is more problematic. There we would like the polluter to pay more, but if it is to be more accurate, we must negotiate the international conventions that actually prohibit us from taxing fuel. This is something that a coming moderate government will work hard to do.
i-Du4CP4xLnXz35kxNB4BSwp	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maria Stenergard, for your answer. During my time as a Member of the European Parliament, I worked hard to get my flight into the EU's emissions trading scheme. We succeeded; in 2008 we decided that all flights that operated from or to the EU would be part of the EU ETS. Still today, 2018, we see that this is not the case. Only intra-EU traffic is included because, among other things, Maria Malmer Stenergards's party has been involved in postponing it so that international aviation is still not part of the EU ETS. I find that regrettable. I think it's good that you want to work at international level. We want that too; we want to continue the hard work that we are already doing. But after this many years of intense work – and your previous government has actually contributed to this – we can unfortunately conclude that there are no effective instruments. My question will be: Do you not think with concern that today it can be economically attractive for people to take flights between Stockholm and Gothenburg instead of taking the train? Do you not see a problem with you not living up to the principle that it is the polluter who should pay when it comes to aviation? Why should the aircraft have this sour cream in Swedish climate policy?
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-743	Mr President, I would like to I am genuinely frustrated, as I said, but that does not make me willing to agree to ineffective instruments. I am rather afraid that if you create symbolic politics you can to some extent sit back and feel that you have done what you can and not continue to fight as intensely. I am convinced that we need instruments that really make a difference if we are to tackle aviation emissions. Therefore, we must work globally to influence the global climate impact of aviation, but we must also do what we can here in Sweden. During a transitional period, we must promote the production of biofuels. There are many interesting projects, for example in Växjö. Different systems could be envisaged to try to promote this. We propose, for example, the right to deduct climate compensation for companies, and we want everyone who sells airline tickets to inform about the possibility of climate compensation. We are in favour of the investigation into the involvement of biofuels. There are also a number of other such instruments, such as landing and take-off charges, which we believe can be used to control better. However, now that we are discussing fossil subsidies, I must take this opportunity to raise the issue of the reduction that exists in the mining sector, which also accounts for quite a large part of our emissions. Now I realize that Åsa Westlund does not have the opportunity to reply, but I note that the Moderates in their latest budget motion propose to abolish the reduction in carbon dioxide and energy tax that exists in the mining industry. However, the government does not. It is incredibly important that we continue to work towards the polluter pays principle in all possible sectors.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-749	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating climate policy in this House for the last time in this parliamentary term. The starting point for policy on the part of the Swedish Democrats is clear. We want a clean-up of climate policy towards a fundamental objective: reduction of emissions at global level. This is fully in line with the Conjunkturinstitutet's assessment. Sweden will take its responsibility within the framework of global efforts to combat global warming. But let us be clear that this is a global problem. Let us avoid one-sided focus on what is happening within Sweden's borders, let us avoid doomsday theories and let us avoid long statements about weather when we talk about climate policy. What weather we have in May 2018 is not relevant for a discussion on climate policy, it is an anecdote in this context. Climate is weather in long time series. Even though we currently have lower temperatures at global level, we can see that the temperature has risen over a fairly long period of time, with approximately 0.1 degree per decade. According to the models used by the IPCC, this will accelerate in the second half of the century. Global warming is real, and it is a problem that we must combat vigorously. However, we must also be clear that we have many global challenges. We have wars in large parts of the world. We have widespread poverty which, although decreasing, is still a widespread problem. We have terrorism that affects almost every country in the world. We also have global warming. This is a complex problem, as we do not yet know exactly what the consequences will be. We don't know what emissions are going to look like and how fast emissions are going to fall – if they are going to fall – and we don't know how sensitive the climate is to greenhouse gases. What we have are different scenarios that researchers model with, and the differences between the models are huge. Mr President, I would like to We thus have enormous uncertainty, which underlines the importance of securing uncertainty and the importance of a strong effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the world and make our societies more resilient to various forms of weather phenomena. The latter is climate adaptation, which the richer part of the world – to which we belong – will have great opportunities to succeed. We have a policy in this House with quite a broad consensus. The problem of adaptation to climate change is much greater in the poorer countries. The key to resisting challenges in terms of climate change and weather phenomena is prosperity. A development with reduced poverty and higher growth in the Third World is what is needed to create good conditions for global climate adaptation. Here, of course, Sweden has a role to play through an effective development policy and a trade policy that opens up opportunities for trade between more countries. Mr President, I would like to During these years we have developed the Party's climate policy. Today we have ten reservations, but for time winning we only ask for reservations 4 and 14. The focus on policy is clear. Climate policy must be effective. In which country emissions are reduced, in which sector emissions are reduced, what kind of fossil-free energy is used and so on is not relevant. What is relevant is that we get as much back as possible for each bet crown. As the Institute of Economic Affairs has stated and the Council of Finance Ministers has stated, climate targets should be formulated on the basis of what one wants to achieve and not in terms of what means one wants to use. For this reason, Sweden should urgently phase out the sectoral objectives of climate policy. Renewable, energy efficiency and CO2-free vehicle fleet targets should be abandoned – not so that we do not work to reduce emissions in these sectors but because the sectoral targets contribute to inefficiency. It focuses on a particular sector rather than on the whole picture. For this reason, the Government should give the Environmental Objectives Committee new directives for climate policy. Research has shown that binding targets for renewables in the EU can significantly increase costs without reducing emissions. In conclusion, we would like to emphasise that all climate policy must be preceded by a proper cost-benefit analysis. We need to do these analyses to a greater extent, because it is easy to lose focus when we know that more than 80% of the world's energy supply comes from fossil sources and that renewables, excluding biomass today, actually represent only a negligible amount and are increasing very slowly. There is a lot of talk about aviation today, which is interesting in this context. To be honest, you have to say a few things: Swedish airline tax is not effective. This is clear from the government's own proposal. The speakers of the Social Democrats made it clear here earlier that there are no good instruments. It is true, but it is not an argument to introduce a bad one. As others have pointed out, aviation is already part of the emissions trading system in Europe, and it only helps to redistribute these emissions. And aviation is needed in a sparsely populated country like Sweden. If, on the other hand, a global aviation emissions system can be achieved, of course, much is won, but a symbolic tax in Sweden will only have negative effects. We know, as other speakers have also noted here today, that flying in the world will increase. Air travel today accounts for a small proportion of world emissions, but it will increase as poorer people become richer and we will have a considerable number of middle-class customers, especially in Asia, but also in Africa. Flying will therefore increase and technological developments are relatively slow. The aircraft purchased today will be in operation for a very long time. If you stare blindly at aviation, it is easy to become pessimistic and lose focus and introduce bad instruments. Then it is perhaps better to focus on the lower hanging fruits. Coal consumption in the energy sector has been stagnating or decreasing in recent years, but as high growth rates increase in this area as well today. The consumption of oil and coal is the biggest problem we have globally when it comes to greenhouse gas emissions, and this is where more energy should be spent on reducing emissions. Coal and oil must be competed, and other cleaner forms of energy must become cheaper and sufficiently reliable and efficient. Mr President, I would like to There is a need here for major investments in research and development above subsidies, because we have a worrying development with renewables that is growing only thanks to large subsidies. In every market where subsidies are starting to scale down, we can see a sharp drop in investment. Then let us not be fooled by the competitiveness of solar power, for example, when the industry has been totally dependent on subsidies and to some extent also on dumped prices of equipment from China. It is a worrying development that the share of nuclear power in the global energy mix seems to be growing only marginally, despite the fact that we all know here how important the IPCC believes that nuclear power is in the global energy mix. Here, Sweden has a big role to play in that we have a great deal of expertise in this area. Sweden could become a leader in the development of the next generation of nuclear power, which is both safer and more environmentally friendly. We could then spread this technology to the rest of the world, which would benefit both Swedish industry and the outside world, which would be blessed with stable, safe and significantly cleaner nuclear power. Mr President, I would like to We believe that international climate investment should be increased at the expense of the ineffective measures in Sweden. It is remarkable that the government pays so little attention to the international dimension of the issue. The calculations clearly show that international cooperation through CDM projects constitutes low hanging fruits for emission reductions in a global perspective. Here, emission reductions can be made at a cost of SEK 60 per tonne – to compare with the government's climate action, where calculations are currently talking about a cost of SEK 400 per tonne. It is positive that work is under way on new forms of international cooperation based on Article 6 of the Paris Climate Agreement. Sweden should continue to work towards new forms of cooperation. Mr President, I would like to The focus of Sweden's democrats in climate policy is on making a real difference and making it effective. For this reason, it is positive that we and the four bourgeois parties have now been able to agree on two announcements in this area. The Parliament is expected later today to approve motions from the SD and the Alliance on the importance of climate policy being effective and not contributing to carbon leakage and that we cease to work with dual instruments. Much is desired if we can achieve a more effective and targeted climate policy in the next parliamentary term. The symbolic policy we have in this area today is not constructive, and it goes out on Swedish growth, competitiveness and jobs without contributing, for that matter, to reducing emissions globally.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-776	Mr President, I would like to It's been a record warm and dry spring. By the end of May, my neighbor had to beat the hay. It was a record time, and record small, hay harvest. This weekend I met a relative who is a sheep owner. He was moving the ewes and lambs to a remote forest pasture because the pastures with the safe predator fences were completely grazed. The alternative was emergency slaughter. Climate change affects us and millions of people all over the world today. Droughts, floods and an increase in average temperatures are making parts of the world uninhabitable. It's a frightening development. Isn't it nice to have heat? But forest fires, dried - up crops, run - down wells and distressed animals are not pleasant, nor, for that matter, with washed - out roads and water - filled houses. Climate change is also not something that has only affected us; it is something that we ourselves have caused by burning fossil oil and coal in all its forms and by our increased emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases to the atmosphere. We must both reduce our emissions and adapt to the changing climate we have already caused. This is the subject of today's report, which deals with two proposals and a letter from the government. As our Environment Minister also participates in the debate and in his speech will present the two proposals, National Strategy for Climate Adaptation and Environmental Information on Fuels, I will concentrate my speech on the letter, A Climate Strategy for Sweden. Mr President, I would like to When I read the letter, I become very proud as an environmental party. In the letter, the government tells us what we have done during our term of office to reduce climate emissions. And that's a lot. I also think that more Members of Parliament in this House can stretch. It is great and important that we have agreed on how the government should work in a climate law, on climate policy objectives and on establishing a climate policy council. All of this is now in place after the Environmental Objectives Committee, in which I was the representative of the Green Party, made its proposal in spring 2016 and we jointly put the climate policy framework in June 2017 in this House. The Act entered into force in January this year, and the Climate Council has begun its work. As an environmentalist, I take the right to stretch a little extra. Introduce a climate policy framework was the Green Party's most important election promise for the last elections. Now we have reached an agreement with all the other parties in the Riksdag except the Swedish Democrats. By 2045 Sweden will not leave any net emissions to the atmosphere, and then we will achieve negative emissions. We agree on the interim targets for 2030 and 2040, and we also agree that transport emissions, our major challenge, will decrease by 70% by 2030. Mr President, I would like to We also agreed in the Environmental Objectives Committee on some of the important measures and instruments set out in this letter. For example, the integration of climate and environmental issues into all policy areas, the need to change the travel allowance, the possibility for municipalities to introduce environmental zones for passenger cars in cities, and the proportion of passenger transport by public transport, cycling and walking should be at least 25% in 2025 in terms of passenger kilometres. The Green Party in government has also launched a number of additional climate measures as a bonus – the Malus system for new car purchases, the electric vehicle premium, fuel changes to increase the involvement of biofuels, support for local climate action through climate change and the urban environment agreements, increased support for biogas, increased tax on fossil fuels and the introduction of air tax. Today, our climate minister Isabella Lövin has taken an important spade tag for the Hybrid pilot project for a fossil-free steel industry. Åsa Westlund spoke about this in her speech. It is an initiative that has come about thanks to the government's support for climate innovations in the industrial sector, the so-called "Industrial Klivet". This is an example of the fact that it is sometimes necessary to use more than one instrument to reduce emissions. Industrial emissions are also covered by the EU ETS. Mr President, I would like to Despite all these decisions, despite the fact that, unlike the previous alliance government, this government has given priority to the climate challenge, and despite the fact that Sweden is top of both the UN director's and the international environmental organisation CAN's lists of countries' climate work, it is not enough. Much more needs to be done. The instruments in place need to be strengthened and new measures need to be put in place. The environmental party has therefore, as the only party, developed a climate roadmap for how the Riksdag's goals can be achieved and surpassed. The Green Party is well aware that if we are to achieve the Paris Agreement, that is, if we are to manage to limit global warming to well below two degrees with a focus on the 1.5-degree target, we need to reduce our emissions at a faster rate. We need to exceed Parliament's objectives by far. We must also realise that we are responsible not only for our territorial emissions but also for the emissions we cause in other countries through our consumption. Over the last 20 years, our consumption emissions in other countries have increased by 50%. Over the same period, our territorial emissions have been reduced by 30%. Sweden's emissions have decreased, but not those of the Swedes. It is not acceptable, as some politicians would argue, to say that Sweden's share of the world's emissions is negligible, because when it comes to the emissions of Swedes we are at the top. Mr President, I would like to The environmental party's climate roadmap contains over 140 proposals for measures. There are proposals for measures to reduce emissions in all sectors: transport, energy, food, the economy and consumption. Many of them are found in our election manifesto, that is to say, climate action is our priority to get in place as early as the next parliamentary term. Let me mention some of them. We want to stop exploration and re-exploitation of fossil energy such as coal, oil and fossil gas and phase out the subsidies for fossil energy in Sweden, the EU and globally. We want to introduce interim targets per mandate for reducing the climate impact of consumption. We want to carry out a broad review of the tax system in the food chain in order to find ways to reduce the negative climate impact of food. Among other things, we want to introduce an antibiotic tax on meat. We want to renovate the railways throughout the country, build new high-speed trains, make it easier to book a trip abroad by train and introduce a national ticket system for all public transport throughout Sweden. The Green Party believes in broad agreements. We are proud of the Environmental Goals Committee's climate agreement and the Energy Agreement with a view to 100% renewable. The next mandate we want to implement a broad tax reform based on green tax exchange, and we want to see cross-border tax talks and reach agreements that benefit the circular economy and the country's economy. These are just some of the climate proposals that are in our election manifesto and in our climate roadmap. Mr President, I would like to The climate has already changed in Sweden. The increase in temperature in Sweden is twice the global average. The researchers' climate scenarios estimate that we will get it 5 – 6 degrees warmer in the late 2000s. That heating is already started with 1 degree. We notice this in the lack of water and in the fact that there is too much water. In Värmland, many have been hit hard when rivers, rivers and lakes are flooded and filled with water and washed away roads and railway banks. Alongside efforts to stem climate change, we also need to adapt to them. In this report, we are dealing with the government's climate adaptation strategy. The Government proposes two amendments to the Planning and Construction Act and highlights a number of areas that are particularly important for further work, including the prevention of race,slides, erosion and floods that threaten communities, infrastructure and businesses. Finally, I would like to highlight an important climate adaptation measure that the Green Party mentions in our climate roadmap and which Boverket has also highlighted as an important measure, namely that new settlements must be built by a good margin from shores in order to reduce flood andslide risks. In other words, reinforced beach protection is a protection against future climate change. It is strange that so many parties in this Parliament have not realised that. Building your homes at altitudes and not on the beach is something our ancestors have always understood the point. It is strange that politicians and parties today, when we really have reason to stick to the good rule, want to do the reverse. Relaxation of beach protection not only has negative effects on plant, animal and outdoor life. It also makes us more vulnerable to climate change. Finally, Mr President, I would like to support the report with the exception of the two reservations that MP, S and V have in common. For time to come, I am content to ask for the approval of reservation 25 only on dual instruments in climate policy. Thank you to all my committee colleagues for the lively debates of this parliamentary term.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-803	(TALMANNEN: Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog must attend a government meeting at 2.30 p.m. 15, and therefore I have decided that Karolina Skog has the opportunity to give her speech now. She breaks the list of speakers – fully in accordance with the parliamentary order. )
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-804	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for that opportunity! I would like to begin by apologizing to those who are unable to take a line, but I cannot influence this. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Sweden probably has the world's best program to meet the climate threat. This may sound like one of the government's points of order, but it is in fact a quote from UN Secretary-General António Guterres. That is what he had to say when he visited Stockholm in April this year. Sweden tops European environmental organisations' reviews of countries' environmental policies. The other day, a well - known K T H - environmental researcher described this term of office with the words With that in my back, I am proud of what this regime has achieved in the field of environment and climate. Mr President, I would like to It is not without reason that this government has the climate as one of the top priorities. The climate is the destiny of our time. There is no doubt whatsoever about what needs to be done. A new report from the IPCC shows that the world may have access to a temperature rise of 1.5 degrees already in 2040– that's 22 years from now – if we don't do anything now. The climate can't wait. During the term of office, the government has therefore rolled out reform after reform in order for Sweden to become the world leader in the climate transition. We have taken on transport, we have taken international action and we have even, at last, taken on the process industry. The number of reforms in the climate strategy that we are now debating speaks clearly. What we've done also makes a difference. In its latest emissions forecast, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency notes that the emissions targets are in sight. The instruments that we have put in place and what will soon be in force will have an effect. But there is still a lot left for Sweden to do in order for us to comply with our part of the Paris Agreement. Mr President, I would like to Sweden works best when the parties work together. This also applies to climate policy. The Climate Act sets out a direction. Sweden shall have net zero emissions 204 5. In the same year, our electricity supply will be renewable, fully in accordance with the Energy Agreement. According to the Fuel Change, half of all fuels will be renewable by 2030. And contrary to the stereotype of anti-climate business, companies are on the train. They have realised the same thing as the government, that the demand for energy-efficient and fossil-free solutions is the future. With Sweden adapting to the market of the future today, our companies can become world leaders. When today's industry recently asked for ratings on the government's climate policy, several heavy business leaders put their thumbs up. And when we Nordic Environment Ministers met a panel of CEOs from heavy Nordic companies, they demanded sharper economic and political instruments. Within Fossil-free Sweden, industry by industry has developed its own roadmaps for the transformation. The industry, the steel industry, the cement industry and the concrete industry are involved. It is about road maps for climate change, but also for innovation. The Prime Minister and climate minister Isabella Lövin is currently in Luleå to take the first shovelage for the pilot plant to Hybrid, which is SSAB's, LKAB's and Vattenfall's initiative for fossil-free coal production. Sweden will make steel without coal. And we're going to be the first in the world with it. With such initiatives, the Swedish base industry stands for a golden future. The industrial life, which we have introduced during our term of office, has been stated to be a prerequisite for this to happen. Climate change and the urban environment agreements have led to a wide range of climate investments across the country. It has involved municipalities, county councils, companies and associations, who want to be part of the transition to a fossil-free economy. Private individuals do their part by setting up solar cells and charging poles. Building a sustainable society we do together. Nothing can make a society stick together and stick together like working together towards a common goal. I find it really difficult to understand why the bourgeois parties want to break this growing popular movement. Mr President, I would like to The transport sector gives me both hope and concern. It has been a long time since the bike was as popular as it is today. E-bikes come through our cities and in the countryside. For me who dreams of cities where everyone dares to let their children, who have reached a sufficient age, cycle themselves, this is a very good sign. Electric car technology is moving forward. I'm sure the electric car can be the new folk car, of course adapted to modern motorism. We ride trains like never before. And shipping is booming. And large investments are made in Swedish-produced fuels. At the same time, we fly more than ever. Sweden is one of the world's cheapest countries to fly in. And even though technology is improving, emissions are increasing year after year. We have to do something now. But what do we hear from the opposition parties about aviation? Well, they're touchingly agreed that the airline tax should be abolished. The Alliance is more concerned that an airline has cancelled a line directly to Las Vegas than that aircraft emissions are flashing. We also see that diesel cars pollute the air in our cities. Since 2011, the emissions of nitrogen oxides by diesel cars have doubled, although technological developments are intended to reduce emissions problems, not increase them. According to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, traffic air pollution leads to a total of 2,900 premature deaths per year in Sweden. The government has therefore made it clear that all children should be allowed to grow up with clean air. By 2020, municipalities will be able to introduce environmental zones. But to that the Moderates say no. The Moderates give priority to the secondary value of diesel cars before children. The modal shift is too slow. It's moving in the right direction, but it's too slow. Then what's the Alliance doing? Well, they want to remove the climate, the urban environment agreements, the electric bicycle premium and the electric car premium. Instead of putting forward their own concrete proposals on how Sweden will become the world leader in the climate transition, they have landed in that basically everything is substandard, wrong in some way. It's a mantra that's repeated over and over again. Mr President, I would like to I would like to remind you that the policy of the Alliance Government has led to the purchase of pure diesel cars by SEK 1.6 billion. Is there anyone in here who can claim that it is an effective environmental policy? It is with pride that from 1 July this year, when the bonus – the malus system comes into effect, the time for diesel car bonuses has passed. The Alliance government also made it cheaper to use excess manure and to burn fossil fuels in combined heat and power plants. Can someone explain to me how effective climate policy is? Today we are also debating the world's first legal requirement to provide environmental information on fuels. For me, this is an important reform, which makes it easy for consumers to do the right thing. It should be as easy to opt out of bad fuels as to opt out of bad appliances. And those who produce truly sustainable fuels should be rewarded. The bill is, as I am sure it has been noted, broad. And as I have previously announced, it is the government's intention to return with details of the regulation currently being prepared in the Government Office. Mr President, I would like to Climate change is happening here and now. Since 1992, the Antarctic ice has decreased by some 3,000 billion tons. Melting is speeding up. And here in Sweden we have experienced the warmest month of May in over a hundred years. Extreme weather, floods and droughts are phenomena that change the climate. Sitting with your arms crossed can prove to be very costly. On the table we therefore have Sweden's first strategy for climate adaptation. Sweden must be equipped for what a changed climate brings. With this bill, we strengthen national coordination and clarify the mandate of the authorities. Municipalities will give their views in outline plans on the risk of damage to the built environment that can be caused by climate-related floods, race,slides and erosion. Boverket and SMHI will coordinate and support the work in the future. Mr President, I would like to The climate can't wait. We can't wait for any new technology or anyone else to go ahead. We have to make decisions now. Sweden has high targets. Much indicates that they can be achieved, but it will not happen by itself. The fact that this term of office has been an environmental harvest time must not mean that the next one will be an environmental policy fallow. The transition has only just begun.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-832	Mr President, I would like to This is an important debate on an extremely important issue. It is the biggest climate policy debate here during the parliamentary year and before the elections, the election that is so important for climate work. I can therefore only regret that the Minister for Climate Change has not been able to give priority to this debate. I welcome, of course, the fact that Karolina Skog has come to this House to defend this government's climate policy, and I hope that she will be able to finish this shift before she has to move on. I want to start with diesel cars and children. I am not even going to respond to that, because it is not worthy of this House. It may lift up an environmental party congress, but I hope we can stay above that level. I only note that Karolina Skog's representatives themselves thought diesel cars were good for the climate. Unfortunately, this government's climate policy is bleak. I don't question the level of ambition at all – I don't think anyone does – but unfortunately it doesn't reach all the way through. Great ambitions and fine words are not enough. The climate only cares about the outcome, and so do the taxpayers. Now we're in a hurry. If we are to reach the targets, each invested crown must make the most of it. Therefore, the Moderates propose climate benefit calculations so that we know where to put our money. In this report, however, the government parties say no to just that. It is important to account for economic effects on individuals and companies when changing taxes. It is important to account for employment effects when taking labour market policy measures. For the same reason, calculations should also be made as to which measures actually produce results in the climate area. I therefore wonder: why are the government parties opposed to such calculations?
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-839	Mr President, I would like to The question of the cost-effectiveness of climate policy is important. It is, of course, important that tax funds are used effectively. It's fundamental to the government. But it is also a complex issue that deserves clarification. Firstly, it is common for an instrument to have several objectives. These can be economic, energy, security or climate policy objectives. Or there may be different combinations of these purposes. If an instrument has several positive societal effects, it is not correct that the cost is unilaterally set against the climate effect. The cost must be offset on other benefits: air quality, health, noise, industrial policy, energy policy, etc. Secondly, different instruments interact with each other. It is often difficult to know exactly what produced a certain effect. It is difficult to measure whether it was, for example, the energy tax or the carbon tax that generated a certain emission reduction. Another difficulty is finding an appropriate reference point to what is a cost-effective climate policy. For example, it is not possible to calculate which CO2 tax would theoretically be required to meet all climate targets and then use this as a reference point for the cost of an effective climate action. No responsible government can solve the climate problem entirely by raising the carbon tax by shock. It would have other general policy effects that no government would accept. I would also like to point out that we are working on a transition. We need to work on innovation – technology development – and, above all, on looking at the long-term effects.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-845	Mr President, I would like to During the alliance government, the economy grew by about 10 per cent while emissions decreased by almost 20 per cent. According to Statistics Sweden, the trend of declining emissions has reversed, and we are now seeing an increase in emissions. According to SCB, they have increased in the last two years – not very much, but it is of course worrying that the trend is reversed. This points even more to how important it is that we really make sure that we steer towards the goals and do not grope blindly. I fully understand that it is difficult to make precise calculations. But what I can't understand is that the ambition doesn't even exist. Of course you can't hit exactly right, but at least you have to try. Otherwise, the risk is that we will not even move towards climate targets, but that we will wander around. The climate doesn't have time for that. I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment a question. If you have a full focus on climate targets, which of the following initiatives – subsidies for electric bicycles and boat engines or, as the Moderates suggest, technologically neutral support to expand charging infrastructure in order to switch the transport sector – does she think would have the greatest impact? Or does the government think that such assessments are completely uninterested? How do you explain it to taxpayers, and how do you explain it to the climate?
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-848	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish economy is exceptionally strong right now. Sweden's economy is doing extremely well in different parts. It is fantastic and it is something that I, as a government representative, am extremely proud of. Since we have not linked the development of growth and climate emissions, this means that emissions will increase in the short term. However, climate policy is not a quarterly economy. Everyone who has worked with climate policy knows that emission reductions are the result of a transition process. Conversion takes time. The current reductions in emissions may be due to instruments and measures taken several years ago. This applies to a large part of emissions. The fact that Sweden is doing well today in an international comparison is about our climate policy taking off already in the 1990s. We were way ahead of others in introducing carbon taxes. We switched the energy system and the heating. It is inappropriate to link emissions directly to decisions during this parliamentary term. As a result of the climate policy framework, a Climate Policy Council will be established which will examine all governments from different perspectives from a macro-economic and micro-economic point of view. It will also examine the impact this has on the entire development of society. It will be an important tool in order to really strengthen climate policy in the future in order to achieve the objectives and to have a climate policy that works for a strong society.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-853	Mr President, I would like to I'm not going to complain that the climate minister didn't come here. We must be satisfied that some minister has the opportunity to come here. Climate change is usually highlighted by the government as the most important initiatives up to 2023. This is about EUR 16 billion to be spent on those measures. After all, the Bankruptcy Institute has identified serious deficiencies in the design of previously similar investment aid, not least due to lack of cost-effectiveness and additionality. It is positive that the Swedish National Audit Office is now carrying out a review of the Climate Scene. At the beginning of next year, we will be able to hear their views. Hopefully, the aid has already been phased out for a few weeks. What we get is a sprawling climate policy without a red thread. A fundamental problem is the implementation of projects which would in any case have been implemented. Money is also being spent on things that absolutely should not be carried out with tax funds at all. I wonder: does the Minister see anything specific about climate change today that can be improved? Have you identified any inefficiencies that you want to steer away from? Do you see any potential for improvement? Has it been possible to evaluate the project yet and have found any shortcomings that can be addressed?
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-858	Mr President, I would like to As far as I know, the Institute of Economics has not reviewed the Climate Scene itself. What is referred to is general reasoning based on previous evaluations. I am, of course, looking forward to the review that will be carried out. Like all the reviews, we'll read it carefully. Once we have it in place, we can draw relevant conclusions. There is no project so perfect that it cannot be improved. What I think is particularly good about Climate Change is that it invites companies, municipalities and county councils across the country to participate in the climate transition and take initiatives. I see diversity, both here and in many parts of society, as a strength and not a weakness.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-861	Mr President, I would like to It is a good thing if many people are happy to be part of the government's tax money. I may not think it is a great value in it as such, but the important thing is that you do good things with the money. Money should be useful, and in this case it should reduce greenhouse gas emissions. When you look at the list you see that it is about a lot of projects. The aid has been increased without prior evaluation. I noticed that several projects are about climate anxiety, for example. In Norrbotten, a course in climate anxiety is organised, which is by the way not an approved psychiatric diagnosis. 62 people applied for the course. It cost SEK 817 164. Of those registered, 79 per cent did not complete the course. They just didn't have time to go there anymore. This seems to be a good thing for the Climate Agency, for the course has received a further 644 000 in continued funding. More courses follow. Climate anxiety is trendy. Such a project in Södermanland has also received half a million SEK. You can also see exciting projects when it comes to reducing food waste. Skurup brought in consultants who taught the cooking staff that it would place less food on the plates. The cost of this was 400 000. Are these examples of projects that the Minister thinks should be continued? Are they effective? Do they contribute to serious and effective climate work?
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-866	Mr President, I would like to The government sets out the framework for projects such as Climate Action. It is then in this case that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency processes the individual applications and evaluates them in different ways. In the climate category, you can get money for information activities. It is identified as one of the many things that we need to do in society in order to have a broad transition.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-867	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 26 and 35. For time reasons, I don't take all of them. First of all, I would like to thank the members who were part of the Environmental Objectives Committee and actually produced the climate policy framework. That is the great benefit of the climate policy of the parliamentary term. Despite – not thanks to – the government's involvement, we in Parliament were able to come to that conclusion. It was even without the intervention of the Minister for the Environment. In Sweden we have fantastic conditions. Sweden tops the ranking when it comes to climate policy. We did it under the previous government, and we do it under the current one. This is because we have largely phased out oil from heating and the electricity sector. This is good, and it means that we have incredibly important conditions for taking the next step. The problem is the development of recent years. I am concerned that emissions are no longer falling. According to SCB, Swedish climate emissions are increasing. We have had four lost years with this government. That is perhaps why the Minister for Climate Change does not like to come to this House and answer for his policy. Maybe that's why the Minister for the Environment can't prioritise his schedule enough to stay and take lines. It is pitiful not to stay and answer for your own policy. She could have done that. We need to reduce emissions. At the same time, we must increase growth. When Karolina Skog in the speaker's chair says that it is a problem that we have growth in Sweden because then we are unable to reduce emissions, the government has failed in its policy. It is good that growth is increasing in Sweden, because that is what creates resources so that we can reset. The green transition also creates growth. That is how we make other countries want to follow suit. This is how we get India, China and the United States to want to reduce their emissions and increase their growth. For they will not tax off their wealth. They want things that really make a difference. The problem with the government is that it does not see the whole picture. One hand doesn't know what the other one's doing. It makes it expensive and ineffective. It wants to introduce a kilometre tax, which effectively prevents us from taking bio-raw materials out of the forest. Forest researchers say that a kilometre tax could reduce the yield by 5 to 10 percent. It is clear that we will not then receive enough biofuels. The government puts a flight tax at a distance instead of emissions, even though it speaks hotly for the polluter to pay. This would mean that even an electric flight – something that next year will be in Norway – would have to pay exactly the same tax rate. Money in the Climate Process goes to climate anxiety therapy. People in groups should sit together and talk about their anxiety about the climate issue. This is not well spent tax money. Support for solar electricity is being increased, but at the same time a solar tax is being introduced. A bonus is given to ethanol cars, while the whole term of office has largely been subsidised by means of penalty taxation instead of ethanol. With complicated rules and expensive costs for businesses, the whole rural environment is also hindered. They're the ones who'll be responsible for the transition. It is the green industries that are the oil sheiks of the future. Anything that can be done with oil can be done with Swedish forest. But then we must be able to take out the forest. Just as the Environmental Objectives Committee says, forests do the most climate benefit when they are used, not when they are forced by the state. Of course, I do not doubt the government's ambitions. They're good. They really are. The government is trying, but it is unable to take Sweden forward. A new green leadership is needed. The Center Party stands for the abolition of fossil subsidies and also for an increase in environmental taxes. We do so in our budget. The Center Party has over 30 billion more in environmental taxes in our draft budget compared to the government parties. We use this tax money to lower taxes on what we want more of: jobs, entrepreneurship and environmentally smart solutions. One example is the green deduction that the Center Party wants to introduce. As with ROT and RUT, you should get your money back directly on the invoice if you install a home battery, solar cells on the roof, solar heat or a charging box. What the government has not understood when it wants to install thousands of fast chargers, which are certainly good, is that a fast charger is the spare tank of the electric car. The large use takes place at home with a simple charging box and slowly. It wasn't until the Center Party presented money for it in its budget that the government went along with it. And it wasn't until the Center Party proposed a green car bonus of up to $100,000 that the government realized that 45 000 probably wouldn't make a big difference. They raised to 60,000, but that will not be enough. The government has not understood that we must keep the cars in Sweden that have entered the Swedish market. Today we see an export of cars to the Netherlands, Germany and Norway when they come out on the secondary market after three years and the first leasing period is over. There is no answer from the government. It was something I would have liked to have asked the Minister for the Environment if she had dared to remain in the Chamber. The Center Party knows that in order to keep them, it must be profitable to own the car even in year four. Our bonus therefore gives part to the secondary owner. It is also about having environmental car parks, being able to drive in bus files and perhaps being able to get exemptions from congestion taxes. These are decisions that cannot be taken locally today; they must be taken in the Swedish Parliament. If Gothenburg, where I live, wants to introduce environmental car parking, decisions are required in the Swedish parliament. That's completely unreasonable. Of course they should be allowed to decide for themselves. We also need transport that works throughout the country. Then everything can't go by rail. The Center Party is investing in high-speed rail. We're spending more money than the government to train on time across the country. But it is also the case that some transports need to go on rubber wheels instead of steel wheels. The forest needs to be taken out. That's not where the railroad works, because the train station isn't out in the woods. Then we need forest roads with good bearing capacity. Then we also need the opportunity to drive longer and heavier vehicles. It is one of the most important energy efficiency improvements we can make it a little easier to drive heavier vehicles. Moreover, it is no longer toiling on our roads. We also need to provide alternatives to some trips. Fast broadband throughout Sweden provides the opportunity to avoid travel. It provides opportunities for people to take a meeting via Skype instead of having to take it physically. We also need to ensure that people receive more information. It is good that the government is now finally putting forward a proposal to investigate the origin marking of meat. But why are we so afraid of having the origin marking of fuel? The proposal that the government is now putting forward and that we are debating here is that there should be information on a website somewhere far away instead of directly at the pump at the time of purchase. The proposal put forward by the Energy Agency has been made worse, and that is sad. I want to know right away when I think it's from Putin or from Piteå my propellant coming. Sweden should do green things that others want to copy: politics that others want to copy and technology that others want to buy from us. That's what really gives green change. When the Center Party spends money on developing the world's best aircraft engines and push them a little bit more, it will have an effect all over the world, not just in Sweden. When we put a circular premium for biogas and create a whole in the biogas system, it is something that other countries can copy. That's how we make a difference. When biorefineries start building thanks to a clearer forestry policy, a long-term reduction obligation and support for the bioeconomy – which we get when we change government – creates technologies that can be exported to the whole world. It gives jobs, entrepreneurship and growth to Sweden, and it gives emission reductions that make a difference. The climate issue is not, as this government seems to believe, who is spending the most money. In all other areas of the budget, the results of the policy are presented. However, in the environmental field, the amount of the environmental budget is reported. The key factor in climate policy is who reduces emissions most. Under the alliance government, despite the financial crisis, we increased growth and reduced emissions. That's what matters. According to SCB, emissions are now increasing. It can't be any clearer than that. A new green leadership for Sweden is needed.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-888	Mr President, I would like to I, too, can be a little sad that the Minister for the Environment disappeared from the debate. I had been looking forward to her answers to, among other things, Rickard Nordin's questions. But I also find it a little sad that the Alliance representatives do not listen to what the Minister for the Environment says when she is in this Chamber and explain the proposals and government policy. They then claim, for example, that the government would have said that we should not label biofuels from origin. What the Minister just said in this House was that this proposal is more like a framework proposal and that there is a government regulation where we will see these requirements for the origin labelling of biofuels and how it should be clear to consumers. For me it is obvious that the information should not just be on any website somewhere; it must be very clear where the propellant comes from. Then there is the debate on emission reductions. I think that the Minister for the Environment gave a very good account of what has caused us to reduce our emissions very much in Sweden. They have decreased by 30 percent in 20 years, which is gratifying. Our CO2 tax is a large part of it, as is our efficiency in the energy sector, that we replaced the oil boilers in our houses and received subsidies for it etcetera. Klimp, i.e. the predecessor of Klimatklivet, made us reduce our emissions on the Swedish territory. Sure--that's what happened during the alliance government, because it takes a long time before the things we decide on have an effect. Of the climate projects that have received money this term of office, few are launched and can have effects.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-891	Mr President, I would like to Then I have a simple question to Stina Bergström. Can Stina Bergström guarantee that the government in those regulations – because it does not want to decide on this in Parliament – will ensure that we get a climate label with origin marking showing which country the petrol, diesel, biogas or whatever it might be coming from, directly at the pump and not on any website? What Stina Bergström herself thinks is actually quite uninteresting. I want to know what the Green Party and the government will decide on. That is what I would have liked answers from the Minister for the Environment. Stina Bergström says it takes time. Yes, some things take time, but some things also take a very short time. Large forest companies that want to invest billions in biorefineries are concerned about this government's forestry policy. You can't get the forest raw material and you don't dare make this billion-dollar investment. These are the things that are here and now and that do not take time, but rather should be corrected immediately. But it probably happens only after the election, when we have another government running this country.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-893	Mr President, I would like to It's a little sad that Rickard Nordin thinks it's uninteresting what I say and think. But what the Green Party thinks on the question of biofuels I said a moment ago, and I also thought that the Minister for the Environment said quite well when she talked about it. We want to see an origin mark. The government will have to look at exactly what it should look like and what is possible with the regulations that we have. EU rules are also part of this. As regards the concerns of forest companies about investments and the forestry policy that this government is introducing, I have said this before in this House and can say it again: there is nothing that has changed with regard to the regulatory framework for forestry policy. What this government has done is to increase contributions to forest owners who protect forests and to work towards achieving the goals of forest protection that were decided upon by the Alliance Government and that we agree on in this Parliament, even though my party in itself felt that they were a little too low. At least we have done what we could to ensure that these targets are met by 2020. Rickard Nordin mentioned the Environmental Objectives Committee. We sat together and worked there. It was the red-green government that gave us that mission, and we can congratulate them for that. There we discussed, among other things, the bioeconomy and the forest's major role in climate change. But we were also very careful to say that the transition to bioeconomy must not jeopardise other environmental objectives.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-896	Mr President, I would like to I find it remarkable that Stina Bergström says that the government should not sit down and look at what can be done now. If you are going to present new legislation, hopefully you have an idea of what you want it to look like. Then I assume that the government will also ensure that there is a climate label on the pump, a label that also shows origin. I'd have thought that was a given. But obviously it is not so obvious to either the government or Stina Bergström. If nothing has changed in forestry legislation, I believe that Stina Bergström will make a study visit to Swedish forest owners and hear how they are treated by government officials. You should listen to the forest companies, who say that they are worried about how this government acts on different kinds of forest issues. And it is not just legislation that is at issue. It's about the signals you send. It is also about how to ensure that authorities interpret decisions. There are easy ways to control your government. This is done through the regulatory letters. There, the Green Party and this government need to steer forestry policy, so that we have the opportunity to redirect to a bioeconomy. We are not there today, when large companies are hesitant about this government's decision.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-898	Mr President, I would like to A little over a year ago I visited Bangladesh. I traveled a bit outside the capital Dhaka along with a research team. They showed me how to build on the dikes that are already outside the capital. One must build on the dikes because now the glaciers of the Himalayas melt to an unprecedented extent, causing the great rivers to overflow in all widths. It is also true that when it rains in South Asia, Bangladesh and so on, the rain is more extreme and persistent than ever. People are being forced away from their homes. They become refugees in their own country or forced outside their country's borders, who knows. There are probably some Bangladeshies on some raft across the Mediterranean right now. Mr President, I would like to This is something deeply unfair. We all know that climate change is what creates extreme weather and what forces people to leave houses and homes. At the same time, it is not the people of Bangladesh or other poor countries who have created climate change. It is also not our children or grandchildren who have been brought to the world now in Sweden that have created climate change. It is we and the generation before who have created the problem. Ultimately, it is the industrialized part of the world that has historically borne the greatest burden on the planet. That's why the conversion must start here too. We must go ahead and take the biggest steps and help people who are affected in poor countries here and now. That is why the issue of justice is at the heart of the climate debate. The richest tenth represents 45% of the world's greenhouse gas emissions. It is the richest tenth that accounts for the vast majority of the world's flying. It is 80 percent of the earth's population that never set foot in an airplane. The richest part of the world's population accounts for most of the consumption and burden of our natural resources. That is why a policy of justice is also a policy that is usually a good climate policy. With taxes on capital and high incomes, we have a dampening effect on the totally irresponsible lives of the richest tenths. It's urgent now. It has been said several times. It was referenced here earlier to the statistics from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. It shows that emissions in Sweden in previous years have decreased by just over 1 per cent. But we all know that 1% emission reductions per year are not enough. We need to reduce far more than that. That is why we in the Left Party have presented a number of concrete publishers on how the transformation in Sweden can go faster. I would like to begin by emphasising that we are behind and think it is good that we now have a climate law in Sweden with a climate policy framework with long-term climate goals. In Sweden, at least, the discussion is not about whether or not humanity affects global warming. Our debate here is about how much we should do, how fast we should move forward and who and who should take the greatest responsibility. We're behind it. But we have also made suggestions on how we can speed up Swedish climate work. We want higher climate ambitions both in Sweden and at EU level. We want the transport sector to switch and reduce its emissions faster by 2030 than with the proposal that is now on the table. I lack the class perspective, the justice perspective and also the gender perspective in Swedish climate policy today. With the motion from the Left Party discussed in the report and which is briefly referred to as Climate Justice, we would integrate all those perspectives and speed up Swedish climate policy. For example, we in the Left want what we call an investment-led transition. It is a question of investing ourselves out of the climate crisis that we are currently in. It was mentioned earlier about investments in the basic industry. It is great investments that are now being made that the base industry should switch from coal and be able to manufacture steel and iron with the help of electrification. But much more is needed. We need to expand public transport in Sweden so that it becomes better and cheaper. We in the Left Party look with great interest at the free public transport which is not only in Estonia's capital Tallinn and which is now to be extended to the whole country, but also in Paris. The days when air quality is too bad for free public transport. We should have that in our cities in Sweden as well. We need to switch to 100% renewable energy. We need to build high-speed trains. We need better maintenance of our railways. All this requires huge investment. We then need a green investment bank that will be able to lead investment policy. It should be an investment bank capitalised alongside the so-called fiscal framework. It is today as a brake on progressive investment policy. We in the Left Party want us to plan our cities based on people's needs and not on the car's. This means that when we build new residential areas, the first question from our municipal politicians should not be: How many parking spaces will there be here? The first question you ask yourself should be: How should we extend public transport? How are we gonna build bike paths? How should we ensure that people can walk safely? This means that we must make future investments in public transport and for walking and cycling. We're not gonna build new highways. I am surprised and disappointed by the government with the Social Democrats and the Green Party, which has now given the go-ahead to Sweden's most expensive and unnecessary motorway project, Bypass Stockholm. Recently it was also announced that it will build the so-called Tvärtändning Södertörn, also here in the Stockholm area. These are projects that will lead to increased mass carism and increased emissions at a time when we need to shift to more cycle and more public transport. We in the Left Party also want to electrify the fleet of vehicles. We want a ban on the sale of new cars powered by fossil fuels. It's supposed to be from 2025. We support the bonus proposal – malus. This means taxation on cars with higher emissions and a generous premium for cars with low emissions or no emissions at all, such as electric cars. More needs to be done in the transport sector. I took note of the debate earlier on the subject of airline tax. We in the Left Party welcome the airline tax. It is quite unreasonable that, for such a long time, flights have flown completely under radar, to be a bit witty, in Swedish climate policy. Despite the air tax, aviation fuel is still entirely tax-free. Foreign flights are entirely VAT-free. Domestic flights have the lowest VAT rate and pay only 6%. Many airports around Sweden are subsidised with large amounts. We must also do something about that. We in the Left Party want to change taxes. We want to ensure that revenues from air taxes, increased VAT and taxes on aircraft fuel can go towards the expansion of the railways so that more people can travel on trains instead of flying. We in the Left Party also stand up for reduced meat consumption. We know that about a fifth of the emissions from our households come from what we eat, and almost all those emissions come from animal species. We should invest a lot more money in public food, such as school food, and ensure that it is good and sustainable food. Then there will be a lot of plant-based food, ie much more of vegetarian food. Many say that we should not talk about what people put on the plate, but there is a political responsibility to demand here too. Of course, we do not want to go into detail about what people eat, but in the same way as we have policies on, for example, reduced alcohol consumption, reduced tobacco consumption and reduced car driving, we can jointly invest in sustainable vegetarian food to reduce meat consumption. Is it not absurd that our pension funds are largely invested in some of the world's largest fossil companies – Lukoil, Lundin Petroleum, Shell, British Petroleum, Gazprom and so on? Our pension money shouldn't be here. We in the Left Party want to change the investment directives for our AP funds to ensure that our pension money is placed in a sustainable way and that these rogue fossil companies are excluded. A policy of conversion is also about opposing the market fundamentalism contained in several of the trade and investment agreements concluded by the EU with other countries – it could be the CETA agreement with Canada or the so-called TTIP agreement with the US. They include the right for large companies to sue states if states regulate in such a way that these companies feel discriminated against. This is going to hold back progressive policies, not least in the environmental field, and if it is something we do not need more of today, it is revenge. On the contrary, we need to be able to move faster in the environmental field, and then we should not make it more difficult to legislate in the environmental field. Mr President, I would like to I would just like to comment briefly on some of the things that have come up here. Those of you who are named are very happy to take a line on me, and we can continue to debate it. Maria Stenergard of the Moderates spoke about forestry policy. I appreciate the commitment to forestry policy, but it feels rather like a commitment to ownership. We know that we need a more sustainable forestry policy so that we get forests that grow and have more diversity. In a future with more extreme weather, the plantation forest that Maria and her party advocate will not be able to withstand storms, torrential rains, etc. To Åsa Westlund from the Social Democrats, I have to say that much of the government's policy today can be summed up in investigations. You are going to investigate biogas, you are going to investigate biofuels for aviation, you are going to investigate mileage taxes for heavy transport and so on. But you've had four years. I think it underscores the fact that you are still setting up investigations in the final stages of your government. To Rickard Nordin from the Center Party, I would like to say that I think it is a good thing that you and the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates go in and look at where the money goes. Sometimes grants may be awarded for projects that are not the most effective. But I get the feeling that you put so much energy into reading about Climate Life's project to find a justification that you do not invest in climate change and local and regional investments in Sweden. If you have a climate policy that says that you should do more, it will not hold off every three crowns from the environment and climate budget. Mr President, I would like to Speaking of the Center Party, I would like to emphasise that I fully agree with Rickard Nordin on the eco-labelling of fuels. It is absolutely bizarre that the government is putting forward a proposal on environmental information on fuels and then calling on motorists to go to a website to obtain more information. This information can, of course, be found today. Should there be any point in environmental information to consumers, it must be where you consume the product, i.e. at the pump where you fill the car. It gives a big understatement to the Green Party and the Social Democrats. Mr President, I would like to I know I've gone over time. I would like to conclude by calling for the Left Party's reservation 20, which is that we want the emissions of consumption to be made visible and included in our climate targets. I heard that the Green Party also talked about it earlier. Then the Green Party can vote in favour of reservation 20, which is about that very thing. I would also like to say this, Mr President, and that is the very last thing I say: usually climate change is described as a sacrifice, and to some extent it is. We all have to change our way of life. But there are also huge gains to be made in turning into a society in which we live within the limits that the planet has set for us. Just think of such a thing as the air. Thousands die prematurely every year because of poor air. We spend billions of dollars on medical visits and medications because of bad air. If we have a policy of reducing mass motorism and reducing transport by fossil fuels, we will also get much better air, locally. Thousands of lives will be saved when we turn into a more sustainable society, so we have a lot to gain by acting quickly – and we will do so.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-930	Mr President, I would like to I do not know whether it is a mark or an omen or what to call it, but I can say that one of the most important debates of the parliamentary year, the one on climate policy, can be involved in concluding the term of office. It is beautiful, because it is important, and it is absolutely essential that we – not least in politics – have an idea of how to limit the effects of climate change. They depend on the emissions that we have been discussing here for an hour or two now. At the same time, we are prepared to adapt to the changes that we know will happen because we cannot prevent all climate change. We can see they're already on their way. Both of these issues are addressed in today's report. It is a rather comprehensive report with two proposals, a letter and a large number of motion requests. Mr President, I would like to I have said this before, but I dare to say it again: when you discuss climate policy, there are two approaches that are directly destructive and counterproductive. One is to turn a blind eye to the fact that the climate threat is a problem at all. Then you don't have to do anything. The second is to lose faith that it is possible to reverse the trend. Both approaches lead to a passivity that can be devastating. On the Liberal side, I can say that we believe that it is definitely possible to reverse developments. We believe that we stand for a smart liberal green policy based on market economy, technology and development. Mr President, I would like to As I said, the climate threat is serious and action must be taken now. It has been said during the debate, and I can agree with that, that extreme weather is occurring more and more frequently around the world and that everyone is affected by this more or less. We can see that the Arctic ice is melting, and that naturally affects seawater levels. You get very touched when you hear representatives from certain island nations. They are not talking about adapting the existence of their nation; they are talking about the very existence of the nation. We can have some different perspectives on this. Jens Holm, for example, mentioned Bangladesh, where there are many low areas that are very bad in that context. And as he says, what happens in the Arctic doesn't stop there. This is also an interesting aspect. I think it was in March one could hear on Swedish Radio that the Svalbard archipelago had been warmer than normal for 87 months in a row. Then it is a bit difficult to claim that this is a weather phenomenon. It is a trend and something very revolutionary that is happening. From the Liberals' side, we also want to agree that we think it is a great strength in Sweden, in the Riksdag and in political life at all that we have been able to agree on the political framework. We have clear and ambitious objectives, which are clearly based on the Paris Agreement's objective of global warming remaining at 1.5 degrees. This will lead to net zero emissions in Sweden in 2045. The objectives of reducing emissions from transport are the closest thing to it and will be a huge challenge. Now we have the target of a 70% reduction compared to 2010. The Environmental Objectives Committee discussed different percentages, but 70 per cent is an extremely high percentage and a very ambitious target, which requires a shift in technology – not least a large electrification of the vehicle fleet. One of the big things in the climate policy framework, which we see as very important from the Liberals' side, is that we have systematized the follow-up so that the development is constantly moving forward and making a new start. This is sort of in the system. Mr President, I would like to With this, I would like to say that we are fairly agreed on where we are going and where we need to go. But when we come to politics itself, we can see that we have some different ideas about the way there. I do not know whether this is really a disadvantage. Perhaps in the end it can give us strength that we can see some different paths to the goal. As I said before, liberal environmental and climate policy is very much about market economy principles based on the principles of polluter pays and green tax exchange, i.e. increased environmental taxes and reduced tax on labour. We see Europe as one of the strong players. In this context, we see the EU as a pure environmental and climate organisation. What is happening in the EU is very important. The EU's emissions trading is one thing that needs to be tightened up and one of the prerequisites for achieving the goals we set ourselves in the Environmental Objectives Committee, which Parliament has decided on. We can also think, as we have said before, of CO2 and aviation taxes at European level. Mr President, I would like to When we discuss where the measures are to be taken, it is very important that we keep taking into account the effects on jobs and competitiveness in our assessment of how the instruments are to be used. It is not good if we just move emissions abroad, but if we do a measure in Sweden it will actually have an impact. It is only to be noted that there is absolutely no contradiction between growth and reduction in emissions. Rather, it is growth that creates the conditions. I would also like to make it clear that it is important to see the whole picture and that climate action is linked to other environmental issues, not least the preservation of biodiversity. Robust biodiversity is much better placed to adapt to a changing climate. Questions about the forest have been raised here. There is definitely no contradiction between ownership and use. On the Liberal side, we believe that the policy pursued, with freedom under responsibility and equal environmental and production objectives, has worked well. Mr President, I would like to Liberals want to protect both the climate and taxpayers' money, but what does this mean in concrete terms? As I mentioned before, we are building a lot on the polluter pays principle, linked to green tax exchange. If we count on our draft budget, we will raise climate taxes by 5.5 billion and say no to inefficient climate action and subsidies of 3 billion. We are clear that this is, among other things, a gradual phasing out of fossil fuel subsidies; we have included agriculture and the mining industry in our proposal. When it comes to the discussions on climate change and what you do and what you do not do in this context, we on our part have said no to climate change. We see that climate investments are needed, but they must be long-term and benefit more people. Charging poles, including infrastructure for electric buses, cycle paths, research in the base industry – it is mostly the steel and cement industries that have large emissions – as well as methane gas reduction in agriculture and railway investments are the type of investments where we think the public has a great place to fill. However, we say no to subsidies for private purchases of e.g. electric cars, electric bicycles and electric boat engines, as well as to charge-home support, which we think is perhaps the strangest story given the relatively limited amount we are talking about. I hope in some way I can show you what's different between us. This is the policy that also permeates our draft budget at all. On the Liberal side, we believe that there is an over-reliance on the possibility of subsidising new solutions, not least given that it is actually very difficult to predict what technology is carrying in the future. We therefore think it is better to focus on having high taxes on things that we know are environmentally and climate-damaging. We have proposals on the reform of the travel allowance and on various labelling systems. We think that the consumer has a central role to play in this and can think of climate labelling for both air travel and certain types of meat. The labelling of fuels that is now coming, we hope, in the end, will be good. We also have proposals in other policy areas; it concerns longer and heavier vehicles. As Rickard Nordin said, this is one of the greatest energy efficiency improvements in the transport sector. There is much more to be said about this, and it is a very substantial report. I can only say that the Liberals have a clear and consistent policy based on the polluter paying and green tax exchange. Mr President, I would like to I am in favour of the Liberals' Amendment No 23, which deals with the focus on emissions and the fact that aid should be directed towards climate investments with the greatest climate benefit, and to reservation No 27, which the Liberals have together with the other alliance parties and which addresses the principle that is fundamental for the Liberals, namely the polluter pays.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-956	Mr President, I would like to Lars Tysklind said that Liberal policy is interrelated and based on the polluter paying. Lars Tysklind also said that the Liberals want high taxes on what is harmful to the environment. Then I wonder: is aviation's emissions not harmful to the environment? We know that emissions from international aviation in Sweden have increased by more than 60% since 1990. Unless this is an externality that needs to be internalised, as economists say, I do not know what the principle is that the polluter should pay that the Liberals want to use. I simply wonder: why should aviation not bear its environmental costs? Why are the Liberals opposed to a tax on flights?
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-958	Mr President, I would like to Of course, aviation should also bear its climate costs. The problem of aviation has been explained earlier in the debate. We have some international agreements that are a problem in this context. Although the ICAO has now given some hints that it should be able to cover for example fuel taxation, it seems that it is still a little vague how overall emissions reduction should be achieved that way. In our discussions we often get caught up in the design of airline tax that has now been proposed, to which we have said no. The main reason we say no to it is that it is a fiscal tax. It is a passenger tax paid by each passenger. There are no incentives built into the system to create a more environmentally friendly flight. I think Jens Holm also sees that there is a problem about the tax in that way. There is also another problem when introducing something at national level. After all, it is on international and long-haul flights that there has been a large increase. Swedish domestic aviation is no bigger today than it was in the early 1990s. So it has not expanded in this way. Just as Jens Holm says, it is on international flights that expansion has taken place. If we are to talk about leakage, we can see there a great risk of simply moving businesses to our neighbouring countries that do not have these charges. That is why we would like to discuss the fact that we are going to a more European level and are trying to create this tax. Then there are other incentives, to which I shall return.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-962	Mr President, I would like to It feels like the Liberals are always experts in finding solutions that are difficult to achieve instead of taking something concrete that is on the table. Lars Tysklind is talking about air tax at European level, but he knows that we do not have EU taxes. In the past, the Liberals have said that we should have a European carbon tax. But it's the same thing there: it's like nothing is on the table. Now we have a Swedish airline tax. We have total discretion over that treasure. It is something that we can introduce ourselves, and the government has now done so. It is relatively modest but is still expected to reduce emissions by equivalent to all emissions from the cars in Malmö City. Imagine that we remove emissions from all cars in Malmö! It's actually the effect. It is about 200 000 tonnes of emissions that disappear each year through the relatively modest flight tax. We also see that the airline tax is appreciated by the Swedish people. People think it's reasonable for flights to pay for their emissions. But then the Liberals say no because it's not a perfect treasure. Until you have the perfect tax, should you reasonably accept the tax that is now in force in the name of responsibility? At some point in the future, you can come up with an alternative proposal that is better. It's something that shrugs falsely in Lars Tysklind's argumentation. I think it is simply a question of the Liberals, like all other bourgeois parties, listening too much to the special interests of Swedish aircraft, and that is why they oppose the tax. I think that is a clear climate understatement to the Liberals.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-966	Mr President, I would like to I can agree with Jens Holm that it is a modest sum. But with that said, I can only repeat what I said before: It can never be a motive that the sum is low. Nor can it justify introducing this tax without seeing the incentive structure in it. Then, on the Liberal side, we have been clear that although some roads are longer than others, someone has to start a discussion on this. You can have comments on that. But for the Left Party, it is about it being a tax at all costs. There will be a lot of symbolic politics of it. When we discuss the future of aviation, biofuels are one of the solutions that exist. It's the emissions we're supposed to focus on, not the travel itself. We see before us that a developed reduction obligation for aviation is a way to go. Then, as I mentioned before, this matter of consumer power should not be underestimated. We have proposed that air travel be climate-labelled when buying and advertising. It may be as effective a method as a flight tax of the kind that exists now. But we have therefore said no to the air tax, and that is entirely because it lacks the governing effects. It won't be effective. Then there is a problem that we must solve internationally. Air travel must also bear its climate costs. I'm sure Jens Holm and I are in complete agreement. It was a pity but perhaps necessary that aviation and shipping did not join the discussion in Paris. Maybe it would have been to hope for too much otherwise. But you have to work with it internationally.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-972	Mr President, I would like to Last week I attended an interesting meeting in Hede in Härjedalen to talk about an investment in Romboleden, a pilgrimage from the 1000's that extends from the harbour in Köping in Västmanland, through Dalarna, Härjedalen and the village Lillhärdal, where I grew up, and further north via Rombovallen in Lofsdalen to finally reach the goal of Nidarosdom in Norwegian Trondheim, where Sankt Olof is buried. This pilgrim path passes through a mountain world that today changes rapidly with a rising tree line, where trees and salix plants are about to take the bare mountain. In a simulation made by Rossby Centre where the average temperature of the mountains in 80 years is expected to have increased by three to four degrees Celsius, we see an increased forestation from Fulufjället in Dalarna in the south – where once Mother's little Olle 166 years ago offered a bear lingonberries; not blueberries, which everyone believes – via Flatruet and Sylarna in Härjedalen and Jämtland and on to Tärnaby and Ammarnäs in Västerbotten and up to Abisko in Norrbotten. The simulation clearly tells us that in 80 years' time there are only a few mountain peaks left in our country, especially in Sarek and Kebnekaise at the top of the north. In Jämtland and Härjedalen it is only the top of Helag and Sylarna that stick up above the tree line. Mr President, I would like to The effects of climate change are most evident in the Arctic today. Around the North Pole, the ice melts quickly. Within 20 years, there may be ice-free summers in the Arctic Ocean. Currently the ice melts from the glacier at Ilulissat in Greenland every day with the equivalent amount of water New York uses in a whole year. The ice blocks that break loose block the entrance to the port and prevent supplies to the inhabitants. These are serious signals that we must take the climate threat very seriously. The permafrost contains large amounts of the greenhouse gas methane, and when the ice thaws accelerates the accumulation of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. The relative greatest impact of global warming in the Arctic is therefore very unfortunate, as this means that warming is running out, and it is becoming more difficult to reach the objective of limiting global warming to two degrees. Climate change is the greatest challenge of our time and requires regional, national and global solutions. Our dependence on fossil fuels is a burden on health and the environment and also a safety policy risk. As the earth's average temperature rises, developing countries are particularly hard hit by drought, soil erosion, floods, parasites and the spread of tropical diseases. Sweden and the other rich countries must take the lead, not least for ethical reasons, because we are responsible for the vast majority of the emissions that have been made and are being made, but also to show that it is possible to change the economy. During the alliance government, Sweden had a high level of ambition in the EU's climate policy negotiations. The Christian Democrats believe that Sweden should continue to push for the EU to be a global example of climate and environmental policy. The Christian Democrats were first among the parties to propose green tax exchange for jobs and the environment, and we have long been the driving force for developing intra-EU emissions trading, which is a cost-effective tool for achieving climate targets. Mr President, I would like to There is today considerable agreement between the political parties here in Parliament on the climate policy report that we are now debating. The work done in the Environmental Objectives Committee proves to be crucial for us to arrive at common positions in order to reach the Paris Agreement's two-degree target and preferably to stay at one-and-a-half-degree increase. The climate challenge is highly global, and the core of the Paris Agreement is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and support those affected by the effects of climate change. The Committee on the Environment and Agriculture proposes that the Riksdag should support two important announcements to the Government. One is that climate policy should strive to achieve emissions reductions while maintaining good economic growth and based on long-term rules that do not drive jobs and emissions from Sweden and the EU. The second is that dual instruments in climate policy are problematic and should therefore be avoided. The report also contains three alliance-wide reservations. One is about the polluter pays principle. One is about Sweden as a climate example, and one is about the need for cost-effective instruments in climate policy. We believe that Swedish companies can become world leaders in the climate area by applying tough instruments and incentives that make a transformation profitable and where technology is developed. This can lead to competitive advantages while reducing emissions. At the same time, it is important to ensure that Swedish companies do not suffer from requirements and costs that lead to businesses moving abroad and that emissions are increased in other countries. Such a development would be a nightmare, which certainly must not happen. Since Swedish industries and companies have often come further in their climate and environmental work than companies in many other countries, we believe in this. Sweden should be a pioneer in climate policy and demonstrate that an ambitious climate policy and maintaining competitiveness can go hand in hand and that national requirements do not contribute to carbon leakage. To achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement, effective instruments are needed to make greenhouse gas emissions more expensive. An important cornerstone of our environmental policy is the polluter pays principle. The principle is enshrined in the Rio Declaration on Sustainable Development and is also fundamental to EU environmental policy. Making greenhouse gas emissions more expensive or otherwise polluting the environment creates signals for consumers, as products and services that burden the environment become more expensive. At the same time, incentives are being created for companies to develop less environmentally harmful goods and services. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to ask for the approval of Amendment No 27 on the payment of the polluter.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-988	Mr President, I would like to I intend to dwell almost exclusively on the AU15, where we also have a reservation. I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. Well, then we stand here again to talk about the shortcomings of Arbetsförmedlingen and the government's lax attitude to this. Hopefully there will be a little fewer discussions on this authority during the next parliamentary term, at least at the end of it. Until then, we must continue to deal with this disaster and all other disasters time and again. Unfortunately, it cannot be described in any other way. We are talking about one of Arbetsförmedlingen's biggest contributions – Preparatory and oriented education. The operation had nearly 75 000 participants in 2017. The cost was on breathtaking SEK 2 billion. It's about annual. What did the participants and taxpayers get for 2 billion a year? Yes, the Swedish National Audit Office's review shows an amazing result, a result that perhaps no one could really imagine. The audit shows that the participants in the operation receive lower earned income than other unemployed persons. Regarding the period that the Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed, it turns out that two years after taking part in the operation, the income from work is between SEK 5 000 and SEK 15 000 lower than if you had been openly unemployed. It is therefore more economically profitable for the individual to lie at home on the couch than to participate in this effort, which costs taxpayers 2 billion SEK per year. How is that even possible? And how can the government allow this completely insane waste of tax money? The Swedish National Audit Office has also reviewed Arbetsförmedlingen's handling of the operation. It turns out that Arbetsförmedlingen has limited knowledge of how the effort works. That's not enough. There are also shortcomings in how Arbetsförmedlingen reports costs for purchases within the operation. The result of the effort is below all criticism. Arbetsförmedlingen's handling of the effort is also under any criticism. What, then, is the government's position on this failure? How is this intended to be overcome? Not at all, it seems. The Government claims that Arbetsförmedlingen works with various activities that will lead to increased efficiency. What these activities consist of is unclear. Finally, the Government believes that Arbetsförmedlingen should take on board the efficiency potential identified by the Swedish National Audit Office. Oh, my God, what a potential for efficiency! This is beneath all criticism. The government should act decisively, at least if it is serious about protecting the job seekers – not only about tax revenues, but also about job seekers who have a lower life expectancy. We have ended up in a situation where no one wins, whether the job seeker and participating in the effort or the taxpayer, who pays 2 billion annually. It hardly needs to be mentioned, but the effort does not lead to regular work either. The Swedish Democrats believe that the most important type of target that should exist for all actions, actions and programmes is regular, non-subsidised work. This shall be continuously documented, evaluated, analysed and followed up. It's not done today. Hear and marvel! It's not done today. The government must wake up and return as soon as possible with a list of measures, including timetables for how to put this in order. An operation that has this type of effect, results and cost cannot be justified. It will be very interesting to hear the defense of it. Take responsibility to taxpayers! But above all, take responsibility for the job seekers! They deserve better.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-1001	Mr President, I would like to This debate concerns two different reports from the Swedish National Audit Office. I will only touch on the AU15 report on the impact of the Preparatory and Orientation Training of the Employment Service. There's a reservation in the Left Party. That is what I call for. Mr President, I would like to Preparatory and oriented education is one of Arbetsförmedlingen's biggest contributions. The last time around 75,000 people participated in the operation, at a cost of SEK 2 billion. It is an effort which, in itself, has been reduced, as unemployment has decreased quite drastically overall. However, we know that we have a situation in which many who remain in the declining unemployment rate become long-term unemployed. This is an effort that often concerns that group. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the effects of this effort over a fairly long period of time. The survey shows that participants could, for example, receive lower income from work than other unemployed people. We're going to be very careful here. On the one hand, the impact is greatly affected by what is happening a little earlier, something that has partly changed over time, and on the other hand it is noted that this action is more effective for people born outside Europe, and on the other hand for those with short training, i.e. those groups that have generally come to be highly over-represented among the long-term unemployed. This still means that overall the effort is working quite poorly or possibly counterproductive for a lot of other participants. The Swedish National Audit Office recommends the Swedish Public Employment Service, among other things, to use this effort more restrictively and to create better conditions for evaluating different directions of the operation. The Government says in its letter that it mainly agrees with the problem description presented by the Swedish National Audit Office and in the recommendations made. At the same time, the government notes that it is difficult to capture the effects, as they involve several actions with different objectives and target groups. Some follow-up assignments have also been given to Arbetsförmedlingen. It is easy to agree with the government about what they say in response to this review from the National Audit Office. But you can't get away from the fact that this is a pretty big problem. So here we have a very great effort which, overall, is expensive and can be said to be ineffective. Of course, we on the Left side take this criticism seriously. What I want to underline and problematise here, which we also do in our reservation, is that it is too easy to just say that we should follow up on this better and screw it up so that it becomes more effective. I believe, and we believe, that what has emerged must be seen in a broader perspective, that it is reasonable, on the basis of what is stated in the report, among other things, to question some of the dogmas in labour market policy that both the past and the present government have failed to poke in. The Left Party is in favour of active labour market policies. This means that the unemployed should be offered active measures to be better equipped to enter or return to a constantly evolving labour market. For such a policy to be effective, action needs to be concrete, varied and designed with the needs of the unemployed and the labour market in mind. In recent decades, and especially after the accession of the right-wing government in 2006, a sort of individualised penal philosophy has become a feature of labour market policy. This has mainly been reflected in reductions in benefits and in the deterioration of the conditions for entry into unemployment insurance – a deterioration which the Left Party has experienced through the budgetary cooperation this term of office, together with the government, in part repairing. The content of labour market policy measures has also changed in important respects in recent decades, many times for the worse. For example, the right-wing government sharply reduced vocational labour market training and instead allowed the so-called phase 3 to grow. Here too, the focus on policy has been arduously reversed, but despite all this, there is a strong continuing idea that unemployed people who have a complex situation and are far removed from the labour market need to be activated, even if this is done by means of measures which may have a doubtful value for the unemployed and who often seem to have the primary aim of controlling the unemployed person's time and everyday life. This is what I mean is also reflected in the problems of an intervention of the type of Preparatory and Orientation Training. Just as the Swedish National Audit Office's review shows, there are groups with a clear need for basic help that can have quite a good use of the effort, and that is good. However, it also seems clear that many people are referred to the action despite the fact that both the Employment Service and the unemployed themselves know or suspect, for good reason, that the measure has no positive effect. However, there are of course many organisers who see an opportunity to organise a programme and get paid for it. It also brings with it difficulties and costs of control in a situation where organisers, authorities and the unemployed may have different incentives. Moreover, it is worth noting that these very problems risk increasing dramatically if the right parties get what they want and turn the Public Employment Service into a pure procurement organisation to pump money into more or less imaginative commercial organisers of this kind of effort. We also heard the Swedish Democrats get excited and land in about the same type of solution. We can see a kind of brandy effect. When it came to profits in welfare, they had nice meetings with business lobbyists and then changed politics. Here we see how Almega and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise are preparing for what they call today's major administrative reform, which would be about offering thicker straws into this industry as well. There are many good billions to feast on here, and then, of course, the Swedish Democrats are a party that offers its political services willingly and quickly. Mr President, I would like to The socio-economic costs of having it this way are great, and I am talking about having efforts that seem to be most focused on controlling the unemployed. It is not just about efficiency that the National Audit Office is trying to investigate, but we need to address issues that have lost confidence in labour market policies or lost opportunities for people who are unemployed because of different types of problems and who do not receive adequate support from society. In the last part-session of this Parliament, I would like the Government to be asked not only to review this effort but also to analyse the driving ideas behind labour market policy measures aimed at people who are far removed from the labour market and to review the possibilities of implementing such measures more closely under the auspices of the Employment Service rather than purchasing them. That is what the Left Party's reservation is all about. Last of all, I would like to thank you for the debates in committee and in this House and, at least, I would like to wish most of them a pleasant summer and a tense election campaign. Special thanks to the secretariat of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, which has been very professional and helpful during this parliamentary term!
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-1020	Mr President, I would like to Also, I'm just going to talk about Preparatory and Orienting Education, AU15. Something that strikes me when I sit and listen to this debate is the question when we last saw a happy Swedish democrat in the speaker's seat. We have not done that today either, but there were a lot of words falling down on disaster, crisis and one with the other. Something we can be happy about, Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström? Job growth has been amazing. Just take the new arrivals who account for the majority of those who take the new jobs. Sweden's economy is very strong. Let us rejoice in that, Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström, and show respect for the fact that it works in this country. Despite a record amount of asylum immigration, we have managed to establish ourselves much better than many people think, and the result is only better and better. Now we can read that after the establishment programme, 44 percent of the participants go to work or study, from a level below 30 percent. For those who arrived in 2007, it took eight nine years to start establishing themselves in the labour market. When we measure from 2011 we are down in five years, and it decreases. It's all right! We're great at this. One important reason, of course, is that we have an authority that works better and better with these issues. The employment agency, I would say, has long been in a process of change and has only become more effective – just one such thing as having really started cooperation with the municipalities and other actors. It is much better now when it comes to working with employers and companies. There's a lot going on there. Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström and the Swedish Democrats stand here and beat their chests and refer to an old report that the Swedish National Audit Office has submitted. You do the classic and sit in the knee of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, and so you say in your pamphlets and also write to the committee that Arbetsförmedlingen costs 80 billion SEK. That's not true. It costs 8 1⁄2 billion to administer salaries and premises. 50 billion goes to unemployment insurance and subsidies. Procurement costs 6 billion. Yet it is written that it costs 80 billion. If you want to save a lot of money, you have to go after unemployment insurance and other benefits and change the policy altogether. Who is best at measuring this? In the matching contracts, it is only private operators. The research says that measurements show that they are neither better nor worse than the things that Arbetsförmedlingen has done itself. It is important that we really discuss Arbetsförmedlingen's assignments, but let us do so on a factual basis and not like the Swedish Democrats discuss yesterday's employment agency. Surely there is something in Sweden's democratic policy to be yesterday. This is my last debate, and you want to be kind in the speaker's chair. But I have to say that Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström and the Swedish Democrats are really good at description of misery. I heard someone on TV joke about it and say that Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström should have become a farmer because he is so good at spreading dung around the country. But I'm not gonna say that here. I heard it on TV. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the report and reject the reservations. I shall then turn to Ali Esbati. Ali has good thoughts about Arbetsförmedlingen, but there is a major investigation, the Labour Market Survey, which will review which external actors might be involved and how the work should be organised. Like Ali, I am totally opposed to a privatization policy. I meet a lot of players when it comes to matching. They are, of course, saying that they want to take part in the market. But I tell them that the problem is that I find it hard to imagine that they can handle it. Who should specialise in different skills? How will the market be broken down? Is there not a very great risk that they will do everything to compete with each other, that is to say, to kill each other, to gain market shares? Then they lower prices to compete, and then they lose quality. There is a great risk in this. We still have one debate, but I say the following just in case. I would particularly like to wish all honourable Members a very pleasant summer. I am addressing my committee in particular. As chairman of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I would like to thank you for your very good cooperation. It's been fun times, too. Of course it's been a little tricky sometimes, but we'll get over that soon. We've laughed a lot together, too. Above all, I am addressing our fantastic office. I say without blushing that we actually have the best committee office in Parliament. I have now said so, Mr President.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-1034	Mr President, I would like to Raimo Pärssinen is clearly satisfied. In a boom, the government has 180,000 subsidised jobs for 33 billion, of which 22 billion go to newly arrived and foreign born. Arbetsförmedlingen's measures and programmes are basically a lock-in organisation for people who need training and measures to acquire professional competence to take their place in the Swedish labour market. Instead, they are spinning around in various labour market policies and measures to be employed. That is what we are talking about, not work but employment. The government is increasing employment. This will reduce unemployment. This is done, among other things, by having 180 000 subsidised jobs in the economic boom. This is nothing to be satisfied with, Raimo Pärssinen. It is old classical social democratic labour market policy, that is to say, to fiddle the unemployment figures by using tax funds for constructed jobs, measures and programmes. We are now debating the fact that they have demonstrably had no positive effect. They have even had a negative effect on those who go there. There's nothing to be proud of, Raimo Pärssinen. You're even using Samhall for these jobs. Samhall receives 10 billion in extra cost compensation to enable people with different functional variables to enter the labour market. Even in these matters, you sit at the Employment Service and encode people who really only have a bad educational background with different disabilities. Last year 42 per cent of those assigned from Arbetsförmedlingen to Samhall were born abroad. This year it is almost 50 percent. Everyone understands that it is not statistically possible. It even says in the regulatory letters to Arbetsförmedlingen and Samhall that it is the business that should proceed.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-1038	Mr President, I would like to I didn't hear anything this time either that Sällström thought was good or that was over. It's the same rolling every time. About 11⁄2 million people are changing jobs in this country. 1 million of them are handled by Arbetsförmedlingen, of which 40 percent say they have good help from Arbetsförmedlingen to get into work. There's Sällström saying in one breath that it's fiasco and disaster. His solution, of course, is to privatise. Sällström himself has had an Ica store, so it's fun to do business – I was about to say – and shop. How will Sällström cope with the small municipalities in Jämtland that do not really have a large market for companies to make money on unemployment? What's he gonna do? Should it be a large procurement authority in Stockholm, a big bureaucracy, that will ensure that business is done all the time around the country? There is no whole thing in the whole thing. There is only one desire at Sällström, namely to crawl into the real right-hand cage and do business and let people and businesses make rough money on unemployment. There is no whole thing. He stands here and talks in the Chamber about how one behaved in the past at Arbetsförmedlingen without finding out how one has changed and is changing. The letter of regulation is written, and there is constant work going on. The requirements are tough on Arbetsförmedlingen. It's supposed to work better, but we're not going to privatize it the way you want to.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-1043	Mr President, I would like to It is almost surreal that the Chairman of the Labour Market Committee does not know that the work is already taking place at Arbetsförmedlingen. Companies that do not deliver are already being evaluated and sorted out and new procurements are being made. It is a project that is already under way at Arbetsförmedlingen, and it is exactly in line with the policy we want. We do not want entrepreneurs to cut gold with a numeral knife using tax money from the Employment Service. There should be a continuous evaluation, and bad apples should be sorted out and new ones brought in. It's already happening. This has been going on for over a year, and the work has even been evaluated once. It's strange that Raimo Pärssinen doesn't know what's going on. That's where we want to go. Then, of course, there are things in Arbetsförmedlingen that work. The place bank is one of those things. It's working fine. Why should it be removed? There's no reason. That's what you talk about when you talk about 40%. They're the ones who find jobs themselves, not the Arbetsförmedlingen. What the employment intermediary does in his work every day is to hide unemployment from the Social Democrats in measures, programmes and subsidised employment, not to find jobs for job seekers, not to provide them with adequate training so that they can enter the regular Swedish labour market and get unsubsidised work. That's where we have to go, Raimo Pärssinen. This is probably our last change of line, perhaps the last debate. No, we still have a debate. Let's see if there's a line change there. I would like to thank the office, and I would like to thank Raimo Pärssinen. He entered Parliament for the first time in 1992, if I am not mistaken, and he has been in Parliament for a long time since 1998. It's 20 years, and it's impressive! From what I understand, he's gonna do something else in life. I'll have to wish you luck. We've had a lot of hard debates, but you've always been upright. You have been a good chairman of the Employment Committee, and we thank you for that. I hope you go on in life with pride and do something good for you!
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-1049	Mr President, I would like to This is probably the best line shift I've ever had with Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström! I want to thank you for the fine words. I am also pleased with what Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström has contributed to the committee. Now even Arbetsförmedlingen received some praise from Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström, and we are also grateful for that. We'll take care of the government's most important tools to help people to work. Then there are huge challenges, but there must be a structured way in for people who do not have the right knowledge, so that they can get guidance and practice. In this way, we take a joint responsibility to help push down unemployment. We do this by caring for our authority, which must be sharpened all the time. What we politicians and the Riksdag should ensure is that Arbetsförmedlingen has reasonable conditions for its work. We are not just going to try to shoot them on the basis of old reports, because it works so much better today. As I said in my speech, we are on the right track. Arbetsförmedlingen only works better and better. I hope that Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström and the Swedish Democrats can think before they say: No, we drive the easy way and let the market take care of this. I'm sure they'll find a solution. Market solutions are many times good, but sometimes they don't work. We in the Social Democracy usually say that the market can be a good servant but is a bad master. We are purchasing a lot, for 6 billion, today. We are trying to clear out those who are rogue, but there are still bad economic activities, criminality and so on. It's going away. But don't let it go to the market, Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström! Then I can wish you a nice midsummer. Eat a lot of herring this weekend! Thank you!
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-1057	Mr President, I would like to I'm sorry, but I think I have to disappoint Raimo Pärssinen again. Now it is a further national audit of Arbetsförmedlingen. They are not usually positive, nor is this one. I would like to begin by calling for our reservation to be approved. According to the Swedish National Audit Office's analysis, the job opportunity, i.e. the transition to unsubsidised work, has decreased between 2007 and 2015. Raimo Pärssinen made a deal because it was an old report. Well, it's been dusting somewhere, even since we turned in our exercise inexplicably, but that's the way it is. What the Swedish National Audit Office shows is that there were deteriorating job opportunities during that period. Arbetsförmedlingen's answer then usually is that it is now another applicant composition. But that can explain only one third of this. Two thirds have other reasons. I am not going to drag out my speech. A lot of people want to go home today. Many have ordered trips by train and by air, so I will just give a brief summary of my speech. When you have made Arbetsförmedlingen an integration authority, which is what you have done, you have forgotten the others. I get quite often signals from those who do not belong to the priority groups that they do not get any help from the Employment Service. It can also be seen from the changes in the job opportunities, in addition to the change in the applicant composition, that it is the group of men aged 35-45 who have had a impaired job opportunity. Then we are talking about those who were born in Sweden. One also gets criticism from the Swedish National Audit Office that one once again does not carry out the task in terms of statistics, follow-up and objectives, just as in the case of everything else. Basically, all criticism of the Swedish Public Employment Service comes out in the same way: poor follow-up, poor evaluation and poor goal management. And you get goal control from the government. I asked the Director-General of the Employment Service when he was on the Employment Committee once: why do you not measure how many people come out in regular work? No, the government does not ask for it, he replied. What does the government want? The government is asking how many come out in action, was the straight answer. This isn't good enough. We need to evaluate the impact of Arbetsförmedlingen's activities. Otherwise, I would like to thank the Bureau and all the staff for this term of office. Thank you for me!
i-UcJBEZZCZQW3dQ9CQosdvM	Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal for a decision and reject the reservation. The Government agrees with the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations, and Arbetsförmedlingen has for a long time begun work to improve the analyses. Then I'll tell you, Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström, as a good friend of mine, a moderate, told me when I was on the school board. He said: Yes, you Raimo, I hope you're doing well but bad for your party. I say: I hope you're doing well, Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström, but a little worse for your party.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-1070	Mr President, I would like to After four five years of strong global boom, the Swedish labour market has been strengthened considerably. Unemployment has fallen and the employment rate has increased. The opposite would have surprised. But when you dig a little deeper into labour market statistics, the feeling of sitting in the bar at the Titanic and waiting carelessly for something you don't want to happen, in this case a new recession. Unfortunately, the Red-Green Government has failed in almost all areas of labour market policy. Firstly, according to the SCB and the Employment Service, unemployment is at a historically high level to be in the midst of a boom. According to Arbetsförmedlingen, unemployment is 7.1 per cent and according to SCB 6.5 per cent. By way of comparison, during the Llian government, unemployment was down to 4.5 per cent just before the autumn 2008 financial crisis. It gave us a great starting point when unemployment then increased. Thus, the unemployment rate is currently about 50 per cent higher, according to the Employment Service's statistics, than in 2008. Secondly, unemployment is falling far too slowly to be in a strong boom. Over the past year, the unemployed have fallen by only 14 000 people. Without additional services, unemployment would not have decreased at all. Thirdly, the government hides the unemployed by moving them between columns in the statistics. One example is the additional services mentioned. The approximately 15 000 in extra posts do not count as unemployed, although they have what might be termed an ongoing labour market measure. The Government's goal is that 30 000 people will be available in additional services in 2021 at a cost of as much as 30 billion. In addition to the state accounting for the entire salary cost, you also pay a bonus to municipalities and county councils for each extra service that is created. Nevertheless, the participants are counted as persons in work in the statistics, since the government has decided that it should be seen as a real employment. There are more examples of how the government with creative accounting makes unemployment look lower than it is and how it has turned the work line to a benefit line. Subsidised services are stacked on high to clean the unemployment figures. Fourthly, Sweden lags behind in an international comparison. The government promised to have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020. Now it's a year and a half there. Since the promise was made, Sweden has slipped from a 12th to a 16th place in the EU. Why does the Swedish government succeed so much worse than the rest of the world? Fifthly, the difference in unemployment between native and foreign born is shockingly great. For natives, unemployment is around 3-4 per cent, among foreign born up to 20 per cent. Ylva Johansson and the Social Democrats promised before the 2014 elections that all new arrivals would be in work within two years. This has failed completely, and now the same electoral promise is being given again. Why should we believe it this time? Sixthly, the government boasts that more and more new arrivals have come to work 90 days after the start-up mission, but it is a false picture. Only 7% have moved on to work without support. It is the same level as 2012 and only one percentage point higher than a year ago. The minimal increase is simply due to the fact that more people have ended up in the artificial and expensive extra services. In the April Employment Service's report, just under 2 per cent of foreign-born unemployed persons have received a job in the past year, compared with 6.4 per cent of those born in the country. The differences between native and foreign born have rather been reinforced. Seventhly, the government pretends in the debate almost as if youth unemployment has disappeared. However, youth unemployment remains higher than total unemployment. 9.1 per cent of young people aged 18 to 24 were enrolled as unemployed at the Employment Service in April. A total of 46 748 young people were openly unemployed. This corresponds to all residents of a medium-sized Swedish city. We also know that the number of unemployed young people usually increases after the end of the spring term, so the figures are supposed to be even worse after the summer. Eight: long-term unemployment has increased during the term of office. The increase in the number of long-term unemployed is serious. It is now, in the economic boom, that more of these should have been put on the labour market. As the economic cycle turns around, these people will be standing at the back of the queue for new jobs. Ninth: The matching of the Employment Service works badly, as the Swedish National Audit Office's report points out. When the Swedish National Audit Office writes that it recommends that Arbetsförmedlingen consider carrying out more detailed analyses of the job opportunity deterioration and what it may be due to, it is an infused way to say that Arbetsförmedlingen is not doing its job. Confidence in Arbetsförmedlingen is low, and Arbetsförmedlingen's competent staff do not come to their own in this organisation. It is time for a proper round-up: Dismantling today's employment services and creating something new that works better. Mr President, I would like to The Social Democrats want to make the elections a referendum on welfare. It is a rather risky strategy for a government party which, throughout its reign and during a boom, has been equipping its welfare. Care queues are increasing, and car births have become a solution in sparsely populated areas. A record percentage of ninth graders are not eligible for upper secondary school. Support for disabled children has deteriorated, and the Social Insurance Agency's staff have even received a bonus if they have refused sufficient sickness benefit. The country's insecurity is increasing while the number of police officers is the lowest in ten years. That is how it looks after four years with today's government. During the Alliance, taxes were lowered, and at the same time welfare received more money. The secret behind this was that our policy got more people into work and dramatically reduced exclusion. This increased the resources for welfare. The equation worked. Mr President, I would like to The government's glossy picture of the Swedish labour market does not match reality. They perform worse than the Alliance did in boom, and they perform worse than the rest of the world. Election promises from 2014 have not been kept, and there is no plan for the future. Then there will be no new money for welfare either. The boom is now fairly well concealing the underlying problems of the Swedish labour market. But beneath the surface there are great problems and imbalances. Compared with previous booms, unemployment has been adamant. Deprived groups find it difficult to find work even in the strong boom, and when the economic cycle turns downwards, it will become even more difficult. We Moderates are extremely critical that the government has not taken advantage of the boom in order to make important future reforms. When the economic cycle turns downward, it is too late. We are now seeing signs of a slowdown in economic activity. The other day, the Swedish National Debt Office's latest report stated that there are clear signs of a slowdown in the labour market. The SCB forecasts also point to rising unemployment in 2019. A new government after the election definitely does not come to a table. It is urgent to equip Sweden for worse times. Sweden urgently needs a new approach to labour market policy. The Moderates and the Alliance have a solid battery with measures that could make a difference. We're going to talk a lot about this in the upcoming election campaign. Right now it feels like sitting in the bar at the Titanic waiting for the inevitable. The iceberg is approaching in the distance, but the captain does not steer away. It's time to change the captain on the ship. Mr President, I would like to I note that this is the very last speech in the very last debate on the subject of this parliamentary term. It feels good to have the last word in this way. With these words, I wish the President, all Parliament officials and Members of this House a really nice summer.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-1095	Mr President, I would like to My first question is: has Jan Ericson really written that himself? It was a rather dark picture he supplied; did you hear that? It could be something like that when decent weather out there too. I looked at your colleagues from the Moderates during your speech, and I thought everyone was squatting a little. Enough because we usually have tough debates, but we usually try to stay within a framework that has to do with reality. If you only want to throw up bile, you can do it, but let me remind Jan Ericson of what it was like when Jan Ericson's favorites ruled the country. Then unemployment rose sharply; we agree on that. The budget deficit rose sharply. We even received contributions from EU funds to combat youth unemployment, which was huge. We also had a huge long-term unemployment. I would also like to say that much of the wealth was being dismantled because you reduced taxes sharply. Mr President, I would like to I could say, even if one might not do so in the last debate, that Jan Ericson is going with untruth. I wonder if those who may have listened to this talk at home ask themselves, Did he really speak the truth? Were the bourgeois years golden years with lower unemployment and stronger finances and when welfare strengthened much more than now? I don't think so. I don't think a single economist in any single bank or association would agree with Jan Ericson. I just want to wish Jan Ericson a nice day without a sore stomach.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-1100	Mr President, I would like to It is probably Raimo Pärssinen who needs a Novalucol or something after this answer. A dark picture? Well, that's the truth, unfortunately. What didn't make sense? What was wrong with the thing? All I listed are facts, directly from public statistics and figures available to everyone, even for Raimo Pärssinen. Please tell me what was wrong with what I said! Raimo Pärssinen often repeats that the Alliance and Sweden received support from the EU to combat youth unemployment. I think it was good that we got it and that we can at some point get some money back from the European Union. But the funny thing is that, as late as 2015, even today's government received money from the EU for exactly the same purpose. Has Raimo Pärssinen repressed it? So to the old mantra that we lowered the tax. Yes, we did, and at the same time we gave more money to the welfare. These two were connected. By reducing taxes and tightening up some benefit systems, we got more people in work and reduced exclusion, and then we also got more resources for welfare. This equation worked. The Alliance proved that this even worked in recession and financial crisis. Then you should have been able to perform something similar when you've run the boom. You've gone shrimp sandwich on a boom, but you haven't solved the labour market problems.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-1105	Mr President, I would like to Is unemployment lower now than when Jan Ericson was in charge? Answer yes. Is it greater investment in the municipalities and in those who support the welfare of this country now than when Jan Ericson was in charge? Answer yes. The fact that we received contributions from the EU in 2015 was, of course, due to the longing of a bourgeois government that had mismanaged this. Youth unemployment was sky high. Jan Ericson can't be happy with that. Now nobody is talking about youth unemployment, because we have succeeded. Is youth unemployment lower now than it was when Jan Ericson was in charge? Answer yes. That's three simple answers. You don't have to be a brilliant economist or mathematician to understand that Jan Ericson is wrong when he talks about the situation. Take the investments in school! They're huge. Compare them with the tax cuts they made! Jan Ericson says: We reduced taxes by a total of 140 billion, and yet government revenue rose. Yes, but they took loans for the tax cuts. Then everyone understands that you're carrying a load. We have a strong economy and declining unemployment in this country. We have more training places, and we have the highest employment rate ever measured. Is that right or wrong, Jan Ericson? Of course it's right, because it's a fact. Sweden is moving in the right direction, and we will not try to tempt any voters by saying: Choose the Moderates so that they can carry out major tax cuts and believe that it costs nothing!
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-1111	Mr President, I would like to It's a good thing Raimo Pärssinen gets a vacation soon. We have an unemployment rate lower today, in a strong boom, than the Alliance had during the deepest global financial crisis in modern times – it would have been strange otherwise. Raimo Pärssinen has forgotten about the financial crisis. It's a little weird. Raimo Pärssinen says nobody's talking about youth unemployment today. Yes, Raimo Pärssinen, the 46,748 openly unemployed young people talk about youth unemployment. I can guarantee that they will. The Social Democrats and Raimo Pärssinen are constantly using the word "investment" to describe expenditure increases. It is a very strange vocabulary, and we in the Alliance will never accept it. Investment is one thing and expenditure increases another. I can remind Raimo Pärssinen that during the alliance years there was a balance in the finances of municipalities between expenditure and income. It's not today. Today, local government expenditure is running out, and we have an imbalance. That was true even before the Alliance took office. There are clear figures from SKL showing this, so the claim that the Alliance would have eroded local government finances is simply wrong. We held the municipalities under our arms and saved the welfare during the financial crisis. Not many countries were able to do this, and we got a lot of credit for this from external assessors. I can only regret that Raimo Pärssinen will obviously become a major consumer of Novalucol after this debate. I can still wish Raimo Pärssinen a nice summer.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-1117	Mr President, I would like to As Jan Ericson stepped into the Chamber from the darkest corners of the online debate, it was difficult not to put himself on the list of speakers, even though delaying the Midsummer celebrations was a major breach of the label. I guess that's the kind of thing you'll soon be expelled from the country for, in a few years. I could not have if it had only been a kind of general negativity that Jan Ericson spread, but it was an extremely and consistently misleading picture of the Swedish economy and the labour market that he gave. Then it will be difficult to discuss real problems and issues. If you have respect for this House and because this is the parliament of the country, you cannot come up with the kind of loose figures that give a genuinely misleading picture of the situation. In reality, there are some things you need to know, despite all the problems that exist in Sweden. Today we have a higher level of people working for pay than any other country in the European Union has ever had. We have unemployment that is falling and that continues to fall for every AKU that comes. The establishment of foreign-borns is faster and faster. We have a situation where, after five years, the employment rate of foreign-borns in this country is higher than the average employment rate of natives born in the rest of the OECD. We have a situation in which the labour market functions in this way, while at the same time we have higher growth than in comparable countries and a very large surplus in central government finances. All of this stands in great contrast to what it was like when the bourgeois government ruled. The policy of the bourgeois government is on only two legs – privatisations and lower taxes – and both legs are limping at the same time. This is the problem we have had to deal with in this situation. Then not all is peace and joy. I'm a left-winger, and we're never happy. There are a lot of problems. If you are going to deal with these problems, you need to know where things are moving, and the labour market has moved in the right direction during these years. What has not been resolved and much remains to be done about it is that inequality in Sweden, under different governments, has been increasing for a long time. We have started to reverse this during this parliamentary term, but there is still a long way to go. This is a problem that Jan Ericson and his party not only do not see but actively try to deepen. That, of course, is what their dual policy of tax cuts and privatisations is all about. If we had the courage to discuss the real problems of Swedish society in this House, we would have discussed issues of inequality and distribution. Then we had discussed how we can get a situation where we reverse the development where a large part of society's accumulated resources go to a small elite at the top. There are plenty of these proposals, and they will be discussed in the electoral movement. There, however, neither Jan Ericson nor his party will have much to contribute.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-1128	Ladies and gentlemen! This Parliamentary Assembly is coming to an end, and so is the parliamentary term. It has been a parliamentary term that started very intensely and turbulently; there was talk of extra elections and December agreements. After that, the debates have only continued in this House and in the committees. In fact, you have held over 1 000 case debates and have taken more than 6 000 decisions in this House. Now it is almost time for the voters to make their decision, and I hope that you will have time for some warm, free summer days before the election movement's temperature reaches heat. Many of you will be back this autumn at the opening of the Parliamentary Session. But not all of you are running for office, and some have completed their mission in the spring. That is why many Members I would like to thank. All of you have received gilded Parliament pins, and you have received a letter with a personal thank you from me distributed at your seats. Those of you who have been in a full term of office will also receive a medal. I wish there was time for a few personal words for everyone in this House too, but to be honest, we would not even be able to make it home to midsummer. I will therefore thank outgoing Members on a group basis. A more personal thank you will be addressed to those who have served the longest time. I'd like to ask you to stand up when you hear your name during the gags. I will now read out the names of the Members who have been Members of Parliament mainly during this parliamentary term.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-1133	I would like to thank you very much for your work in the service of democracy. Thank you!
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-1134	I would also like to thank Karin Svensson Smith. She also entered the Riksdag in 2014, but she was actually elected as early as 1998. As chairman of the Transport Committee, you, Karin, have engaged in climate and traffic issues, and you are a famous train enthusiast. Therefore, it is a bit ironic that it was precisely the train chaos that made it impossible for you to be thanked in 2010. But now I would like to thank you for your efforts in the service of democracy!
i-UiaoNrnXdwmB3y94ftGt7m	The following members have been members of the Riksdag for eight years – the majority came in 2010: Maria Abrahamsson, Jabar Amin, Håkan Bergman, Agneta Börjesson, Kent Ekeroth, Lars Eriksson, Thomas Finnborg, Jonas Gunnarsson, Arhe Hamednaca, Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler, PerPer-Ingvar Johnsson, Sara Karlsson, Katarina Köhler, Margareta Larsson, Annika Lillemet, Eva Lohman, Valter Mutt, Kerstin Nilsson, Lise Nordin, Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson, Anna Wallen, Tony Wiklander and Jonas Åkerlund. Thank you very much for your efforts in the service of democracy!
i-UvzrZygsFQUtoAv77VTECq	The following members have been members of the Riksdag for about twelve years, and most came in 2006: Phia Andersson, Lena Asplund, Anti Avsan, Finn Bengtsson, Mikael Cederbratt, Krister Hammarbergh, Isabella Hökmark, Peter Jeppsson, Göran Pettersson, Leif Pettersson, Maria Plass and Eva Sonidsson. Thank you for your efforts in the service of democracy.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-1136	I would also like to thank two members of the same vintage who have also been group leaders. Emma Henriksson! You came into Parliament with a strong political commitment. You are the chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, and you have represented your party in an exemplary way as a group leader and as a spokesperson in social policy, health policy and family policy. I have enjoyed our cooperation in the group leader circle. I would also like to address Mrs Anna Kinberg Batra, who was, among other things, party leader, group leader and chairman of the Committee on Finance and the EU Board. Your political breadth is great, as we have seen not least in party leaders' and budget debates and in the reform of labour immigration, which is particularly close to you. You have a great interest in EU issues and international relations. You have not only played a central role in your group; you have also played a very important role in the parliamentary work here. I've also really enjoyed working with you in the group leader circle. Thank you to the two of you for your efforts in the service of democracy!
i-XKZ8mGmfQBTsgHUKNtg7AP	The following members have been members of the Riksdag for about 16 years, which means that most came in 2002: Lennart Axelsson, Catharina Bråkenhielm, Rossana Dinamarca, Agneta Gille, Berit Högman, Peter Johnsson, Birgitta Ohlsson and Helene Petersson in Stockaryd. Thank you for your efforts in the service of democracy.
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-1142	Members of Parliament who have been in Parliament for 20 years or longer – almost everyone came in 1998 or 1994 – I would like to thank you with a few personal words. Monica Green! You entered the Parliament of the Social Democrats of the eastern constituency of Västra Götaland in 1994. You have been a member of the Transport Committee, the Finance Committee and the EU Board. You have been a member of the Swedish delegation of the Nordic Council, the OSCE delegation and the IPU. You're an energy bundle of large dimensions. You're passionate about justice, the environment and gender equality. Your strong and early commitment to gender equality issues can be exemplified by the fact that you joined and started the first working group on gender equality issues in SSU together with the then President Anna Lindh. And you are now committed to UN Women. You have also been active in the field of IT, for example as the IT political spokesperson of the Social Democratic Group. Your interest in IT also manifests itself in your very large activity on social media, where you are extremely diligent on both Facebook and Twitter. Another thing that I think is important to highlight is of course your commitment to Skaraborg! Thank you for your efforts in the service of democracy!
i-WP4YTcd7QPkp8o9rGHq5VG	Kent Härstedt! You have been a Member of Parliament of the Social Democrats since 1998, and you represent Skåne County's western constituency as an elected member. In the Riksdag you have been a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Defence Committee, chairman of the OSCE delegation and active in parliamentary networks. Among other things, you have been a political expert and have been assigned to state boards and transparency councils. You have participated in many state investigations, such as alcohol imports and the state's consular responsibility in crisis and disaster situations. Here in Parliament – or rather out in the world – you have been involved in foreign policy issues, and this has been noticed not least by the number of travel days. You have been your party's development policy spokesperson when you were a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee. You have worked actively with election observation within the framework of the OSSE. Your international commitment has given you both a great deal of know-how and a comprehensive network of contacts. Not least have we noticed this in the days when your work contributed to the Swedish action in relation to the North Korea-US meeting. Thank you for your efforts in the service of democracy!
i-AbhCEm31kxqxENvYzSYdtH	Leif Jakobsson! You joined the Riksdag of the Social Democrats in 1998 and have represented the Municipality of Malmö. You have, among other things, been Vice Chairman of the Tax Committee and member of the Housing Committee and the Riksdag Board. You have also been Vice Group Leader for the Social Democrats. You've had a lot of assignments in the investigation. For example, your international interest has been demonstrated through your many political contacts with Denmark and Germany. Here in Parliament, you have been chairman of the Swedish-German Parliamentary Federation. You have a background in local politics, and you have a long political path within your political party. It has given you a political breadth that has also been expressed in the parliamentary work. You have been responsible for many different issues, including housing policy, traffic and, of course, tax policy as vice-chairman of the committee. You have the ability to get concrete solutions to various problems, both as a leader and as a politician, through a combination of pragmatism and political fingertip. As a knowledgeable, experienced and solution-oriented politician, you have been active both in the Riksdag and, more recently, as State Secretary for Tax Affairs. Thank you for your time in the service of democracy!
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-1155	Yilmaz Kerimo! You have been a member of the Riksdag of the Social Democrats since 1998, and you represent Stockholm County. You have been a member of the Justice Committee, the Social Security Committee, the KU and the Civil Committee. You have also been a member of several state investigations, such as the Family Committee, the Discrimination Committee and the Criminal Affairs Committee. Your political action is long, and your heart issues have focused on integration, welfare and the social field. The great interest and broad knowledge in social matters comes with you from your background as a socionomist. Your heart is pounding extra for Södertälje. You have especially burned for society and welfare to include everyone. Everyone's right to housing, livelihood, fair growing-up conditions and security have been issues that you have been strongly involved in. You will always carry your joint responsibility with you, even outside the Riksdag. Thank you for your work in the service of democracy!
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-1159	Cecilia Magnusson! D u entered Parliament in 1998 for the Moderates and started your career in the Justice and Social Security Committee, but it is above all in the Culture Committee that your involvement has been in recent years. There you are as a member since 2006. You are particularly passionate about the right of all children and young people to culture, and you believe in the power of music to influence life for the better. Fearless, learned and empathetic are three words that describe your efforts here in Parliament. Engaged and intensely pushing your questions. The involvement has been noted in Parliament's parliamentary networks and friends' associations. For example, you have been a member of the Association of Friends of Cyprus and an active member of the Dawit Isaak Committee. You have the good quality of seeing and interested in people. You get to know the people even behind the political role, and you constantly delight them with small gifts. There are many of us who can testify here in the hall. Thank you for your efforts in the service of democracy!
i-XBYtu6FMW8SLkAqaJDVePN	Raimo Pärssinen! In 1992, you entered the Riksdag in 1996 for the Social Democrats in Gävleborg County. You have, among other things, been chairman of the Labour Market Committee and member of the Law Committee and the Tax Committee. Your political interest began in working life as a metal worker in Hofors, where questions about working life conditions and working environment became concrete. These issues have consistently involved you during your time in the Riksdag, not least as chairman of the Labour Market Committee but also as a driven debater here in the speaker's chair, as we could hear just recently. You have also worked to ensure that everyone has a good working environment, fair conditions and opportunities for further training. You have worked tirelessly to combat discrimination, unemployment and exclusion. You have also worked actively with issues related to school, elderly care, solidarity-based taxes and fair distribution policies. You have also ensured important Swedish-Finnish relations. Thank you for your work in the service of democracy!
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-1166	This group also includes former First Vice-President Susanne Eberstein. Susanne! In 1994, you were elected a Member of Parliament for the Social Democrats and Västernorrland County. During your 24 years in Parliament, you have had a wide range of assignments, apart from being the first vice-president. You have been a member of the Finance Committee, the composite Constitutional and Foreign Affairs Committee and the Justice Committee. You have been Vice-Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, you have been a member of the EU Board and you have been chairman of the Tax Committee. You have also been chairman of the Riksbank Council. In addition to this, you have been an investigator in a wide range of investigations. Justice has always been especially close to your heart. If you want to describe your work in two words, it is that you have always had equality and equal rights as key words in everything you have undertaken. You have also had an active interest in everything from police issues to art and alcohol advertising. The breadth of questions you have been involved in shows a complete lack of fear in the face of the challenge of entering new areas. You have a remarkable ability to understand new questions. You have always taken your positions of trust very seriously, and you have always strived to be well aware of the issues. You're straight, clear and honest. The message goes forward, and it cannot be misinterpreted. You have never been afraid to bring out criticism, but you have done so with heart and warmth. Thank you for your efforts in the service of democracy!
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-1170	I would also like to extend my special thanks to our outgoing interim president and to my outgoing colleagues in the Presidency. Krister Eagle feather! You entered the Parliamentary Parliament of the Social Democrats in 1992, and you represent the constituency of Kalmar County. In the Riksdag, you have been a member of the Education Committee, the Transport Committee, the Industry Committee and the Foreign Affairs Committee, and everyone knows you as chairman of the Parliament's Interparliamentary Union delegation. You are the old president of Parliament with over 25 years in parliament – an impressive performance of nearly 10,000 days as a member in office! You are knowledgeable and, to say the least, well established as a Member of Parliament. It has been safe to have your skills available. During these years, you have not only had a wide range of missions within the framework of the membership role, but, of course, you have also pursued a wide range of political issues with a broad political register. You are committed to traffic, communication and education. Your work has focused both on regional perspectives in the Committee on Economic Affairs and on global perspectives in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the IPU. You work to pursue important international issues within the IPU, where you have long been part of the Swedish delegation. Since 2014, you have been its chairman. To spread democracy in the world, something you through the IPU work for, is as important as complex task. Thank you for your work in the service of democracy!
i-WYHXTfjYfuKFi5G43zvjfm	Esabelle Dingizian! D in political journey began in Botkyrka where you were active in municipal politics for a long time. In 2006, you became a member of the Swedish parliament for the Green Party, and in 2014 you were elected third vice-president. During your time as a member of the Culture Committee and as your party's former spokesperson on cultural issues, you focused on social and societal development. You believe in culture as a tool for change, and your time in Parliament has been marked by your commitment to diversity. You have also profiled yourself as an anti-racist and green feminist who works for social justice, suburban development and young people's opportunities. You have made a great impression through your work with gender equality issues. In your party, you have, among other things, been convening on the Equality Committee. Here in the Riksdag, you have led the working group on gender equality during this parliamentary term. It has been a solid work that you have carried out on behalf of the Riksdag Board. Esabelle, I know you as an empathetic and honest person with very strong motivations. Thank you for your excellent cooperation in the Presidency, and thank you for your efforts in the service of democracy!
i-H1S3oCcf4MLeuHkmTHXR2u	Ewa Thalén Finné! D u was elected to Parliament in 1998 for the Moderates. You've been involved in several committees. In particular, we can mention the housing committee, the civil committee and the justice committee. You have also been a member of the war delegation and the Riksdag Board. Since October 2017, you have also been the first Vice-President. Housing policy is one of your heart issues. You have been a member of Boverket's Transparency Board and have been a member of the Parliamentary Housing Planning Committee. As the first Vice-President, you have repeatedly represented the Swedish Parliament in an excellent way, both in official contexts and in other contexts. You have also led meetings in this Chamber with fire, of course. Ideal engagement is important to you. For example, you have been chairman of Parliament's Scout Network – yes, also in the World Scout Parliamentary Union. The Scouts' choice language and ransom – be ready, always ready – you personify very well. With that attitude, your drive and your positive energy, you were very easy to get into the work of the President's Bureau. I would also like to thank you for your excellent cooperation during this time. Thank you for your efforts in the service of democracy!
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-1182	I would also like to address a few specific words to Björn von Sydow, who is still a Member but who – believe it or not – has never been thanked as President. We're gonna change that now. Björn! D u entered the Parliament of the Social Democrats in 1994 and represents the constituency of Stockholm County. You have a long – and what I think unique – political path behind you as, among other things, Minister of Defence, Minister of Trade, Member of Parliament and Speaker. In the Riksdag, for example, you have been Vice-Chairman of the KU, Chairman of the Parliamentary Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, Vice-Chairman of the Swedish Delegation of the Council of Europe and so on, and so on. You are being thanked today by the President, but with your more than 23 years as a Member of Parliament, I cannot help but mention these missions as well. I would particularly like to highlight your time as Vice-Chairman of the Constitutional Committee. The current parliamentary term, together with others in the committee, has greatly contributed to the committee's work being characterised by responsibility and broad and cross-block consensus and thus largely unanimous scrutiny reports – something that has been very good both for the KU and for the Riksdag. You've had a lot of assignments in government investigations and preparations. You have been chairman of the Defence Committee, you have had board positions, you have written writings and books and you are a PhD political scientist. The thesis you named interestingly enough Can we trust the politicians? And the answer to that is yes, we hear here! When people talk about you, the same positive words and opinions often come back: You are an honorary man with great integrity, you have a warm and caring heart and you have an outstanding social ability as well as a cheerful mood. You were the speaker between 2002 and 2006 and were in that role highly appreciated in all camps and across party boundaries. Perhaps there is a key to that appreciation on Wikipedia where it says about Björn von Sydow : ..................................................... Björn! Although you would like to describe your personality and your deep knowledge, you were an example to me when I became President. Thank you for your efforts in the service of democracy! Welcome to receive a bouquet!
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-1189	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank the group leaders and the parliamentary board for their good cooperation during these four years. I would also like to thank the former first Vice-President, Tobias Billström, and second Vice-President Björn Söder for their excellent cooperation over these years. It has been a pleasure to work with you. I would also like to thank the parliamentary administration very much for all the fine work and support you have given to the Members and me during this parliamentary term. In addition, I would like to thank our outgoing Parliamentary Director, Kathrin Flossing, for his excellent cooperation. Kathrin Flossing was elected Director of Parliament on 4 October 2010 and this autumn will finish her assignment. I appreciate your ability to set a straight course, your experience and your skills. I know that I am also speaking on behalf of the Vice-Presidents, Group leaders, Members and staff when I thank you for your work in developing the activities of Parliament's Director. Thank you!
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-1192	Finally, I personally and as President, would like to thank you all for your commitment to debates, politics, cooperation and association during the parliamentary term. It is my deep thanks for these years together – first as colleagues on the Member's mission and then during the time that I have had the very great honour of being President. It's a unique mission, and it's been very exciting-- maybe a little too exciting sometimes. When I was newly elected, the number of extra elections was among the first to be handled. Above all, it has been a fantastic period of learning. As a Member, I was used to talking, but as President, I have spent a lot of time listening. I have listened and learned from your debates in this House. I have listened to what the eight parliamentary parties think about the work in Parliament. I have consulted with the group leaders, and it has covered everything from rules for party leaders' debates and Question Time to security issues, local regulations, topical debates and Members' conditions. It has been an important thing for me: the difference between representing your own party as a Member and representing all the 349 Members as President. I want you to know that it has been a privilege for me to represent the eight parties and 349 Members of Parliament. I have done my best, and my focus has always been on giving you as good opportunities as possible for you to be able to carry out your policies in the best possible way. Thank you! Finally, I wish you all the best of luck in the election campaign!
i-0e52bb4270e420b7-1195	Mr President, I would like to As the age president of this House, I would like to say, on behalf of all of us, thank you very much for your speech and for the thanks you have given us today's outgoing and outgoing Members! Now it is I who should instead address a few words to you. You were elected to Parliament in 1994 and have passed a good margin of 8,000 days as a Member of Parliament. You have led the Foreign Affairs Committee, and you have worked in the Foreign Affairs Committee, the war delegation, NATO parliamentary representation, the OSCE delegation and parliamentary investigations. Many times we have seen you in action in this Chamber with the President's stick or in the speaker's seat, as the driven debater you are – committed and always learned, always on the hefty, strategic, structured but also generous with knowledge and contacts. You have channelled your energy into hard political work such as youth politicians, MPs, committee chairmen, election workers, loyal party representatives and active Speaker. In the role of President, you have focused on us Members and how we can shape and carry out our policies. You have worked to make the Riksdag a current political and democratic arena. You have changed the rules of debate and working arrangements in this House to put the honourable Member at the centre. I think many people agree with me: I feel that you have had us Members in mind in your Presidency. However, you worked the first 20 parliamentary years in the Foreign Affairs Committee. And it doesn't matter if you move in Washington's congress halls, have meetings in Moscow or visit a village in the Middle East – wherever you come, people will know you. I've benefited from that. I have to make a little personal attraction here. As the President said before, I have had the privilege of representing you Members beyond the borders of Sweden. And when you get out, a number of times, when I've told you my name and where I come from, there's a lot of people who know you, Urban. And they know you primarily as the person you are. They know you as committee chairman, and they know you as chairman. Now, if you'll excuse me, that's not what I might have won the biggest profits from. When they ask me if I know you, I say, yes, of course. And then I say, we've played on the same football team. I promise you, once those words have been said, all the barriers will disappear. The conversation will be completely different. Urban is and has been a very good football player. So it felt safe to have you on the side, or rather behind when you played center half. Then you knew there was a conductor who talked about when you were doing right and wrong. Thank you for that! Your travels have kept pace with full-bodied programs. You have been active in international think tanks, you have led meetings of the Foreign Affairs Committee and you have used your qualities and contacts in various ways, as when you contributed to negotiations between the United States and Belarus for the release of a political prisoner. You also negotiated for the release of two construction workers from Falköping who were imprisoned in Iran. Your work for our Baltic neighbours and the countries of the EU's eastern neighbourhood is well known and appreciated in those countries. As a Member of Parliament, you have represented your constituency with great commitment, and the link between your constituency and the world is important. No matter how much you engage in international politics, you will always remain a Mariestad worker boy. Skaraborg you always have with you, wherever in the world you are. And wherever you go in the future, you will also have the Riksdag and your speaking time with you. It is a presidency that will not end today, but 24 September at 2.30 p.m. 11. Mr President, Urban. On behalf of the Swedish Parliament, I would like to thank you warmly for your efforts as a Member of Parliament and as a Speaker in the service of democracy! Welcome to receive a medal and a bouquet!
