i-daa1e1275b44dca0-4	Madam President, I would like Jonas Sjöstedt has asked me whether I intend to work towards the government abolishing the yield requirement for SJ and allowing surpluses to be used for investments and lower prices. He has also asked whether I intend to work for the government to instruct SJ to re-sell and market international train tickets. Finally, Jonas Sjöstedt has asked me whether I will take the initiative to develop international rail links, including new night trains, by SJ. I share the view that it is important that more people choose the train. Therefore, the Government has increased the annual allocation for railway maintenance by SEK 1.34 billion per year in 2016– 2018, and shortly the Government will present a new national transport plan with an expanded framework of SEK 622.5 billion. But also SJ AB plays a central role for increased train travel. In this context, I would like to mention that at SJ AB's Annual General Meeting we recently decided to amend the Articles of Association and give SJ AB a clearer assignment, which, among other things, aims at the company's contribution to meeting the transport policy objectives. Thanks to SJ's success, the company can also invest SEK 9 billion in its fleet of vehicles, of which SEK 3.5 billion in upgraded high-speed trains. SJ AB currently operates in a fully liberalised and competitive market. The complete removal of the yield target, as Jonas Sjöstedt wishes, could distort competition and would be contrary to EU state aid rules. The lack of marketable return targets also runs counter to the Riksdag's overall goal of corporate governance, i.e. long-term sustainable value creation for the state. As regards the sale of international train tickets, SJ AB quite rightly ceased this mainly because of low demand, low profitability and burdensome administration. SJ AB continuously evaluates the possibility and business reasonableness of providing and marketing international train tickets. Unfortunately, many of Europe's night rail lines have been dismantled in recent years. SJ AB is therefore currently assessing that an effort to start up international night train traffic does not fit in the current business plan.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-9	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Economic Affairs, for your answer. This debate is about the State's railways, but it is just as much about the climate issue. If we do not get goods transport and passenger transport from lorries and passenger cars, but also domestic flights to rail, we will not be able to meet the climate targets. A lot of people want to ride trains. One of the problems of rail traffic in Sweden, which has been plagued by delays and lack of reliability, is that rail traffic has increased so much. We have no tracks today, and SJ has no trains today. We have a lack of maintenance due to years of lack of investment in railway maintenance. So we need a lot of investment. We need new tracks. We need coherent government maintenance. We need a State Railway that can expand and be reliable. Therefore, we want SJ to have a clear mission to drive trains throughout the country, to be the people's railway, to keep prices down and invest in new trains. But the state's demand for SJ is basically only one today. It's to deliver profits to the state. The government does not seem to have any direct point of view on what SJ should do otherwise, but sees it much like any company. SJ is a key to increasing train traffic for people and thus meeting climate targets. We can also see that the private players are only interested in picking the raisins out of the cake. There is only one company that can take a national responsibility for the fact that it is possible to travel by train from Abisko to Malmö in Sweden, and that is the State's railways, and we believe that they should take this responsibility. I therefore lack vision from the government. I miss a thought. The state and ultimately the Swedish people are owners of the National Railways. What do you want this company to be? How will this help to meet the climate goals? Now that we see how the climate is rapidly being destroyed, we need to be able to rethink old, outdated thinking and take on board new ones. This means that the objective of state-owned companies must also be to reduce climate emissions. If you remove the yield requirement from the National Railways – the company is doing quite well – you have more opportunity to keep prices down and to make even more investments. That's exactly what we need. The government then says that it violates policies and the requirements imposed on Swedish companies. Yes, but change them! The climate demands it; we live in that time. It is said that the EU acquis does not allow this. But there are a lot of state railway undertakings that do not deliver any profit to the state. Apparently, things are going great in other countries. If we do not want to challenge the European Union, which I think is perfectly reasonable in this case, then we can reduce the demand for yield and set a symbolic requirement for yield, because what is on the State's railways is quite high. And it is money that could instead go for cheaper tickets, better service and more traffic. It is about what you want, if you are actually prepared to take the consequence of the climate threat being real. Then I mean that the National Railways should be given the opportunity to contribute to being a large part of the solution. We can give SJ better conditions. We can get even more people to take the train. But then the train must be cheaper than the alternatives. We do a lot on the taxation side. But removing the return requirement is also a way to get even the student with poor economics and even the one who doesn't earn much to actually afford to ride trains instead of bus and sometimes domestic flights. It is time to give the climate issue the weight it deserves.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-22	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jonas Sjöstedt, for an important interpellation about one of the most important companies in the state! SJ is a company whose entire business concept is to contribute to the climate policy and transport policy objectives. The more people take the train, the better it is for the environment. It's the whole business idea with SJ. SJ does nothing but try to expand its business and thus make more people take the train instead of the car, bus or flight. What today prevents SJ from growing is a lot of the problems we have had with neglected maintenance for a very long time, which still scares many people away from taking the train, and that the trains do not always go on time. There, with the help of cooperation with the Left Party, we have made strong efforts during this term of office, and we will continue to need to invest in what provides the conditions for SJ to function. But it is also about the need for new and modern trains that make more people feel that it is worth taking the train instead of the bus. It's one thing that the Left Party always wants a lot, and that's great. It is part of politics that you want a lot. Another thing is to look at what is being done and what is happening right now. Then I just want to inform you that in its 160-year history SJ has never invested as much as they do today. It has to do with more and more people choosing to take the train. It's all right now, and you fill the trains. Then you can build on with a wagon and even open new lines if there is train path and capacity for the times people want to go. SJ is thus doing well, and this means that it invests a total of SEK 9 billion over six years to renew its fleet. Among other things, 3 1⁄2 billion is invested in upgraded high-speed trains that really challenge the car-borne transports seriously. We have seen that the X2000 trains have taken a lot of traffic and continue to grow strongly. Now we are investing in X2000 trains in more locations and upgrading the entire train system, which is important. Is it good that SJ goes strong financially? Yes, it is, because when SJ goes financially strong it is possible for SJ to make these investments. We would not have seen these investments if SJ had had a weak financial statement. We have financial goals for SJ, but we choose not to take out everything that the economic goals claim. We think it is important that SJ has both muscles and margins to be able to implement its business plan in the future. As far as pricing is concerned, I will not go into everything, but it is not we politicians who set the ticket price. As Jonas Sjöstedt knows, SJ has since quite a number of years a model where the price varies. When the train is empty, it is cheaper to travel by train, but the more crowded the train becomes, the more expensive it becomes. This means, for example, that students, who have a little more opportunity to plan their time, can take a train that is not so full and then get a cheaper ticket. Since the introduction of this price model, SJ has gone from being a company with constant deficits and constant discussions on how to cope with the economy to a company that today can make these investments. There are two sides to this. If we want the train to take more space in the future and want to be able to offer more people to ride trains, these heavy investments must come about, and now we are making the biggest investments ever. It is rather fun that we have a term of office when we discuss how well the state companies are doing.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-33	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Industry for his answer. It is excellent and also necessary for SJ to go well financially. Even better for SJ, it would be if you could use the entire profit for reinvestment. Then you could buy new trains, increase travel and invest for the future, which is good if you want good profitability in the future as well. The economic arguments therefore speak in favour of not picking profit money out of the company but allowing it to go back to the travellers in different ways. It is also about long-termism. SJ invests a lot, but if you travel by train in Germany or France you notice that SJ is behind. It's faster, the service is better and the trains are newer. To be honest, X2000 has a few years on his neck. Much needs to be done, and we believe that SJ should have the opportunity to do so. This also applies to international rail traffic, which, unfortunately, has fallen sharply while international air traffic is increasing. In Sweden, aviation today causes as much emissions as private cars. Happily, more and more people want to travel on trains internationally, but they find it difficult to book tickets, often more expensive than flights and taking too long. As long as this is the case, we cannot expect most Swedes to choose to take the train to the continent – even if the pressure increases sharply, which is gratifying. However, the trend is turning around. The Austrian train company ÖBB operates night train business over large parts of Europe with great economic and traffic success. In Sweden it has also turned around. We saved the night train line to Skåne, which now has better traffic. The Left Party negotiated that the night train to Jämtland remains, and it is important to get the load on them as well. In a few years, a fixed connection over Fehmarn Belt will be completed. Then the journey times will be shortened to the continent. In the future, it is perfectly reasonable for Mikael Damberg and his grandchildren to get on the train in Stockholm, have dinner on their way through Östergötland, go to bed and then wake up in Amsterdam, Paris or Berlin the next morning. It is when trains work that way and it is not too expensive that people will choose to ride trains. It is absolutely necessary for the climate that we make this possible, and when it is absolutely necessary and the conditions increase to do so, we should also say to SJ that we want SJ to contribute to this together with other railway companies. The same applies to ticket sales. It is quite unreasonable that I can buy a ticket from Falkenberg to Bremen on the German railway Deutsche Bahn's website but not on SJ's website. It is modern computer systems, so why does SJ not cooperate with Deutsche Bahn or with the Polish or French railways? It is both unreasonable and incomprehensible that SJ does not sell international rail tickets. If you're going out for a train trip, which is what more and more people want, you can buy a train driver's card and book tickets somewhere else. The small travel agencies that do this now have so much to do that they can barely do it. It should be an obvious part of SJ's mission to increase international rail traffic as well. But then we must have a government with social democrats and environmentalists who want it, who say to SJ that they want SJ to do this and who see that the trend has changed and say: If we contribute to this we can have a responsible climate policy and make it easier and cheaper to travel in the future. I am simply calling for some visions and thoughts about what it will look like in 15 years' time and in 20 years' time, not just that the government is a tired but effective manager of state enterprises.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-46	Madam President, I would like We are an active and fairly professional manager of state-owned companies, which has led us to stand in this Chamber every two weeks discussing why the state companies are doing so well, why they are making record investments and why they are giving large dividends to the state that help us to invest in health care, police and other things that Jonas Sjöstedt and I think is important. It is a different situation now, because when government companies are managed properly and well, they will be strong and able to cope with the investments needed for the future. I would like to point out to Jonas Sjöstedt that this has been a sad development for international rail connections and journeys. SJ has closed down some of its operations, and they have also done many international companies. But I believe that Jonas Sjöstedt is right in his future reconnaissance that things will be better in the future. Why did SJ shut down some of this activity? Because it was very unprofitable and because there was a lot of administration for a business where demand was lacking. You can't just start from what you hope and believe about the future or what things might look like in the Left Party's happy view of the future, but you have to start from what travelers are and how you can convince them to choose these trips in the future. Today SJ is driving towards Narvik, Oslo, Kastrup and Copenhagen. Traffic to Oslo has increased enormously, and for a long time it has been driving to Copenhagen. It has taken stock of the possibility of expansion, especially in the Nordic countries, and has made some efforts in recent years and continues to look at it. Night trains to Europe have not been very profitable for a long time and have therefore been reduced. It is more logical to have more own ticket sales when you have more own business that goes across borders; it is connected. There was also low demand, weak profitability and heavy administration. When I talk to SJ, they say that you keep looking at this. It may be boring to have to book your tickets on a website other than SJ's. But SJ has links on its website to the websites where you can book Interrail tickets and other things, so it's just a click away, so to speak. This can always be discussed, but SJ makes over time assessments whether to have this service or not. In his first speech, Jonas Sjöstedt mentioned something important that we must not miss, the freight traffic. It's a failure. Passenger traffic is growing strongly, but rail freight traffic has had major problems and challenges. Not least the Green Cargo issue. It is not a company where we have seen a turnaround economically and where things are going stable, but there have been deficits in operations since 2013 or so. Now we are doing part of the budget in order to facilitate and support better development, because one of the major climate and environmental issues is that in future we will use our rail network more for freight. We are making a review of Green Cargos's short-term and long-term strategy, of which choices can be made and how we can support Green Cargos's development in the future. It is important for the climate that we succeed in this.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-55	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I agree on freight – it deserves its own debate in due course. Today, when you buy a plane ticket, you have a number of sites where you can go in and compare prices across Europe, very easily. But if you buy a train ticket, it is difficult and complicated and often extra fees from the travel agency. I believe that this should of course be a task for SJ. If I want to go to Bergen in Norway, I can buy a ticket to Oslo, but I cannot enter Bergen and buy the ticket on SJ's website. It is obvious that SJ will be tasked to cooperate with other railway companies to make it easy to take the train. You should also be able to get discounts that exist in other countries. Basically, this is about the view of state-owned companies and whether we realise that it is a new time when the climate must come first and that even the sacred profitability can be questioned sometimes because it is actually more important that the climate should take precedence, that we must withdraw fossil investment from the AP funds, that Vattenfall cannot sell coal mines to rogue companies and that SJ must aim to increase international rail traffic. It is perhaps there – in view of this – that the dividing line is between Social Democrats and environmentalists in the government and the Left Party. In 30 years' time, you may be on the direct train to Brussels with your grandchildren and they ask you: What did you do, Micke, when it turned the climate around? Did you do everything you could? Then I hope you can answer: we did everything we could. We changed the politics. We let the climate come first. It would be so sad if you had to answer your grandchildren when you leave on the train: No, we followed the ownership policy. It was more important. We did not want to challenge the EU's market-liberal dogmas, and it is nevertheless the yield requirement that is the most important thing in the end. I do not believe that this will hold up in response to your grandchildren when you come across the plain of Östgötas on your way to Brussels or Berlin.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-62	Madam President, I would like It is probably the case that Jonas Sjöstedt and I have different views on how to conduct an effective and successful climate policy. Unprofitable state-owned companies do not contribute to climate change. It is economically strong companies like SJ, which makes the biggest investments in its 160-year history right now, that contribute to climate policy. The fact that Vattenfall is today a stronger company when we have sold coal power and it has not opened new coal mines in Germany, as some claimed would happen, is the right development for Vattenfall as well as focusing on the green transition and making major investments in new energy that contribute to this transition. Strong companies such as SJ, Vattenfall and, in the future, Green Cargo will be absolutely necessary elements in the green transition, but then you must not take easy on profitability. We must ensure that companies are well managed so that they are able and able to make the investments that the climate needs. I look forward to SJ making more investments and opening up new opportunities for people to take the train instead of the flight or the car. I am absolutely sure that SJ can do so when we run SJ in a wise and economical way.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-66	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me The government recognises the importance of simplification for companies as part of their efforts to strengthen the competitiveness of companies. The Government therefore pursues an active business policy aimed at ensuring that all companies and entrepreneurs have good opportunities to create, grow and export. Business conditions are improving in a variety of ways, such as the change in the social security systems for entrepreneurs and improved access to finance. The government has also reduced the cost of one-man entrepreneurs hiring their first colleague and introducing tax incentives for employee options under certain conditions. Another central area in the government's efforts to improve the business environment is simplification. By making better use of the opportunities of digitalisation, we simplify the opportunities for entrepreneurs and citizens in all parts of the country. Fully digitalised case management makes it easier for companies to do right from the start, to get faster case management and to get more information about case status. With good service and digital services, the amount of rules is not as big a problem. Among other things, the Government has commissioned the Swedish Companies Registration Office to introduce a digital service for the submission of annual reports. The service was opened on 26 March for the 2017 Annual Report. Electronic financial statements provide better opportunities for data to be reused by several authorities and reduce administrative costs for businesses. Within the framework of simplification for companies through digitalisation, the Government focuses on areas that are deemed to be of particular importance to make it easier for many companies. One such area is the accounting area. R egeringen has also reached an agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council that entrepreneurs in regular industries should be offered digital solutions to, among other things, be able to apply for municipal permits. Work started with restaurant entrepreneurs and has continued for companies in the tourism industry. It is an important work based on the company's perspective, whether it is in contact with the municipality, the county administrative board or national authorities. It is therefore gratifying that the work produces results and that fewer companies in hotels and restaurants see laws and government regulations as an obstacle to growth. In addition to the application of rules and contact with authorities, the government proposes to simplify the legislation for the building permit process and individual permits, such as the dance permit. In order for Swedish companies to have competitive conditions in relation to the outside world, it is crucial that the rules are effective. In this way, the administration required to comply with the regulations is limited. Impact assessments are key to achieving more effective rules, and they must be of good quality. It is therefore gratifying that the review by the Rule Council shows that quality has improved in recent years, and work continues to improve quality further. According to the annual monitoring carried out by the Swedish Agency for Growth, the overall administrative costs of the companies have increased in recent years. That, of course, is not good. It can be noted that a significant proportion of the costs incurred by companies originate in the EU. It is therefore essential to work towards the effective implementation of EU legislation. At the same time, rules that surround entrepreneurship can constitute an important game of play in the market and thus have a protective value in itself. In some cases, the value of protection outweighs keeping costs low. However, the Government's ambition remains that it should be easy to be an entrepreneur in Sweden and that costs should be reduced.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-76	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. In a previous interpellation debate here today, we heard Jonas Sjöstedt say: What did you do, Micke? This is also a relevant issue in this area. I think there are few entrepreneurs who, among other things, are entrepreneurs because they find it fun to keep working for the state free to fill out forms. I know a number of entrepreneurs in different industries. If you are a plumber in Gästrikland, for example, and have a number of employees, you work Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday in production, and Saturday is devoted to paperwork. If you run a private preschool, it is about the same thing: you work with the staff and the children and what is important, and then you engage in administration. The entrepreneurs come up with a report today, which today's industry writes about and which the Minister for Economic Affairs has probably read about: The rule issue is the great horror of entrepreneurs. That's about the picture you get, and that's why I put this interpellation. The Business Council, NNR, recently published a report, a new mandate, new opportunities, consisting of two parts. One part is a Skop survey that describes how entrepreneurs experience rules and regulations and whether it has become simpler or more complicated during their term of office. It has also been asked which regulatory areas are obstacles to growth. Through the country's entrepreneurs and the survey, NNR notes that there have been four lost years for the government's regulatory improvement work in Sweden. The costs to companies resulting from regulations have increased, and companies are experiencing an increase in complexity. Seventy-four per cent of companies have little or no confidence in the work of the government. That is, of course, worrying. In the face of this interpellation debate, I went into the government's website. I thought it was interesting to see what a crusade the government has had against rules, what the government has written, what initiatives it has taken and what it has done. You can compare this with, for example, profits in welfare, where a minister has gone country and country round and blacked out the country's entrepreneurs. You can compare with another minister who presents companies as villains when it comes to health and safety at work. So you have been very effective in some parts. When you search for rules on the government website you will find a document. It is a debate article, which in itself was wise. There, Minister Damberg writes that TTIP opens up new opportunities for Sweden. It is published on 29 May 2015. This is the information available on the Government's website. It is possible that it is unfair that government officials have not posted more documents on the government's website and that they have not put up all the initiatives to reduce the regulatory burden in Sweden. But obviously they haven't reached the government's website. I think this is quite right with the picture that I have when I am out on my many company visits, namely that entrepreneurs feel that it has become more complicated and that it has become more difficult. They feel that they do not have the support from the government that the previous government showed. That is also what this NNR report shows. In the area by area, companies are experiencing an increase in hassle. It is clear that it does not increase the competitiveness of companies when the costs of regulatory problems increase by 1 billion annually. It is a domestic production of costs that the government and the authorities have created. During the last parliamentary term, enormous efforts were made to reduce the regulatory burden, and it had an effect. When you let go of that question, the rule issue has increased.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-89	Madam President, I would like I thank you for giving me the opportunity to clarify what it is that I think actually facilitates for companies in the long term and how to work structured on these issues. I don't know about Lars Beckman, but if I think about my own life, my smart phone has made my life a lot easier. I do many errands in it that I previously needed to go to some place, such as a bank, to do or to fill out some paper. It took much longer and was more complicated. What has happened in Sweden – this is an important issue – is that we have not digitised Sweden quickly enough. Actually, I listened to Lars Beckman's party leader the other day. Then he said that the road to simplification goes through digitalisation. Oh, my Gud, that's great. It sounded like my own speeches on this theme. It therefore feels great that we have the same picture of the situation. Sweden still ranks very high when it comes to digitalisation. However, there is one area where Sweden has fallen back sharply in the last ten years, and this concerns the digitalisation of the public sector. What we have not done, and which was not done for eight years, is to work with digitalisation in the public administration. This means that during the eight years the Moderates were in government, it was perfectly possible to submit the annual report to the Swedish Companies Registration Office on a napkin. But you couldn't hand it in digitally. An important initiative that we have taken this parliamentary term will allow us to submit our annual report digitally for the first time this year. Then you can say that it is only an annual report. But it's about the data that companies provide to the state. If they come in digitally to a public authority, we are opening up completely new opportunities for us not to interfere with individual entrepreneurs with reporting in many other contexts. Then we will have the information at the same time. How can it be that after eight years of the Moderates in government, Sweden, which constantly peaked until the early 2000s, had lost so much and that we even fell down on the UN E-Government Survey? In the early 2000s we were constantly at the top, and in 2010 we had even fallen off the top 10 list. Countries such as Spain and France went over Sweden in terms of digitalisation and e-government in the public sector. Your party leader and I agreed that this is what will drive simplification and save time for businesses. Why, then, was this not done in a government position? That is an important issue. We do a lot of work on that. This is not just about annual reports. We join forces with SKL in a cooperation agreement in the most regulatory industries and try to make a digital process when it comes to both starting and running restaurant companies, for example. We're moving on with the hospitality business. We have said that we should look at other regulatory industries because it really makes it easier for companies. This is therefore a little bit of homework. If you are serious about simplification, then digitalization is what you have to succeed in. And we'll bet on that very hard. I am aware that it is not possible in 15 minutes to digitise a process for all restaurant entrepreneurs in Sweden, as this will involve many municipalities, county boards and state-owned companies. But if you do it properly, you have made it easier for companies for a long time to come. If we make it possible to submit the annual report digitally then my message is that it is a voluntary submission today but that digital submission of annual reports will be mandatory in the future. Some will complain about it. But it makes it easier for the vast majority of companies in the long term to do this digitally and easily from the beginning.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-98	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for this fire speech. Let me note, then, that there is a document on the government's website dealing with regulatory issues, and this is about the TTIP agreement. That agreement would have been good for Sweden; there we agree. Let us then see what the reality is. It must reasonably always be the case that it is the entrepreneurs who have a preference for interpretation, because it is the entrepreneurs who are experiencing the problem of regulation. It doesn't matter what I and the Government think. Then we can see that there are far more entrepreneurs – 29% – who feel that it has become more complicated than they feel that it has become easier – 2% – to comply with the state rules compared to what it was just a year ago. 29% is a violent increase. And Skop has been asking the same question since 2009. The share that believes it has become more complicated has increased from 15% in April 2014 to 29% today. So you can continue side up and side down. Madam President, I would like Reality always beats rhetoric. But I think it would have been a good thing if the government had had a crusade against rules. The ministers could have gathered once a week, and the Minister for Economic Affairs could have asked the various ministers: What have you done in your field to reduce the regulatory burden, Peter Eriksson? What have you done in your field when it comes to planning and building rules? How have we managed to shorten the processing times within Lantmäteriet? How do we use digitalization when it comes to open data in the construction process? It could have been an amazing job for the Minister for Economic Affairs. Like Jonas Sjöstedt, the question could have been asked: What have you done, Micke? What they have done is that they have written a debate article on TTIP that is on the government's website. It was good, and it can more people go in and read. But talk, of course, does not help Sweden's entrepreneurs. In the area by area, companies perceive that it has become more complicated and expensive. And, of course, they lose competitiveness. It is clear that one can say that the Business Council is an association of interests. But just as the Government said in its response, the Swedish Agency for Growth has also noted that the administrative costs of companies have increased in recent years. I therefore believe that we are quite in agreement on the problem: it has become more expensive, more complicated and more difficult to be an entrepreneur in Sweden during the last term of office. I think that's gonna happen to the jobs. I think this has been hidden a little bit during the boom that the world is in. But there will be a day when the world economy will not draw Sweden. Then we have created domestic costs for our companies and reduced the competitiveness of our companies. Perhaps we have also made it a little more boring to be an entrepreneur. I think that if you are a plumber, as my friend Åke is, you find it much more fun to be out and help customers to fix water and sewers than to sit on Saturday and do the bookkeeping or to send in social security numbers on everyone who has worked with monthly reporting and so on. Every small step from the authorities is surely right and proper. But the sum of the rules and the sum of the problems is that if we have 400 authorities in Sweden we have an entrepreneur who will handle all the regulations, all the rules and all the situations. There I think it would be good if the Minister for Economic Affairs had had a crusade against the rules and that the Minister for Economic Affairs had tormented his Council of Ministers every week and asked them: What have you done to reduce the regulatory burden in your area? Then I think we would have seen the effects of it.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-106	Madam President, I would like I would like to mention a few things. For example, Lars Beckman does not comment in a word on why the then moderated government neglected the entire digitalisation work. This means that Sweden is no longer ranked as a top country when it comes to simplification for companies, for example, because our public systems are not digital. We are perceived as a country that has ended up behind because we have not made the simplification for companies that we have been involved in when it comes to our smart phones. Lars Beckman has no other opinion than what his party leader has, that this is what simplifies most for the companies? We started there – that Lars Beckman's party leader and I agree that digitalisation will simplify. That is where we have made our efforts during this parliamentary term, because in the long term it will have the most impact on regulatory changes. What happens if we go into the substance and say that last year's costs increased by a little over 1 billion? It is quite a lot of money, but if you go in and look at what this cost increase of 1.2 billion for Swedish companies really is, you can see that about 1 billion is due to new EU rules against money laundering and terrorist financing. Should we be without these rules? Should we make it easier to conduct money laundering in Sweden than in other European countries? Should we be without a system that can access international terrorism? No, of course we shouldn't. I think that Lars Beckman and I really agree that it is reasonable for Europe to have these rules, not least when we have seen acts of terrorism all over Europe and in Sweden and Stockholm. Then we must toughen up the rules for this. When we do this, costs also arise for companies, such as banks and financial institutions that have to account for and keep track of this in a different way than before. It costs companies money to do this, but there is a public interest not to fertilise money laundering and terrorism in Europe. That is why there are the rules that came about last year and that pushed up the costs for businesses. I agree that we must ensure that the total cost and time that companies devote to administration are reduced. Digitalization is a part of this, but we should also have a process in which we remove certain rules that are not necessary. This is what we saw in the restaurant business project. When we started this project together with the municipalities, we discovered that the municipalities impose different requirements on restaurant operators, even though they are the same legal requirements at the bottom. Neighbouring municipalities can therefore impose different requirements on entrepreneurs to report different data, even though it is the same legislation. I really believe that by going through this in a structured way, we can both reduce the number of rules and ensure that reporting is more accurate. In addition, I often see in small companies that you not only find rules difficult – you are also worried about doing the right thing. Filling out these forms is not easy. I get a little stressed and sweaty myself as soon as I get a form - do I fill in the correct form now? Digitalising this process from start to finish is one way to find out in which order to complete, what tasks to fill in and how to do so. Moreover, it is not necessary to provide the same information several times. I think we have an important job to do in Sweden to simplify and make regulatory work easier for companies, so that it takes less time. But you can't paint everything in black either. I saw LRF's latest profitability barometer on small businesses. Last year was another record year; Swedish small businesses have rarely been as profitable as they are at present. Seven out of ten small businesses want to grow in terms of the number of employees. So we have an amazingly exciting development now. It is important to support it, including through digitalisation and simplification, but also through increased access to finance, better payment times for small businesses and export subsidies, so that companies can reach new markets. This is a work that I look forward to continuing, preferably in cooperation with the Moderates in the parts where we agree.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-117	Madam President, I would like Let us remind the Government once again that there is only one document on the government's website dealing with regulatory issues. It may not be the most powerful venture that I have been involved in, and there are certainly explanations for that. Let us note that six out of ten companies in the survey released yesterday say that the burden has increased, that it has become more complicated and that it has become more difficult to be an entrepreneur in Sweden since 2014. Let us also note that NNR says the same thing. This cannot reasonably be blamed on another government. I think Viktor Barth is a little funny. I know the government usually goes on Twitter sometimes. I think that the Government should go in and look at the simple list of points of speech that DN's columnist has done, where the government has three points of speech right now. And it's always someone else's fault. It would have been nice if there had been 250 initiatives on the government's website. I'm pretty sure it would have been easier and more fun to be an entrepreneur in Sweden if it had sprayed out debate articles about the importance of regulatory simplifications and if the Government had been like a blowtorch on their government colleagues and asked what they have done in their respective areas to reduce the regulatory burden. I am quite sure that the survey that came some time ago had shown that entrepreneurs felt that the regulatory burden had decreased in Sweden rather than increased sharply. I believe that there is a real difference, but it can also be the feeling that the problem has increased. The interesting thing when you read the surveys is the time series, that you have asked the same question over time and not picked it out in individual measurements. I have never seen such a sharp increase in the regulatory burden, so obviously there is more to do. The Government could publish a debate article tomorrow on the reduction of the regulatory burden in Sweden.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-123	Madam President, I would like I think that you as a politician should not just write debate articles; you should do something too. For eight years, the Moderates had the chance to work with digitalization of the public. It has made our lives easier with smart phones, for example, that don't have to run to the bank and fill out a lot of forms. You can print a little here and it's done. Why is it not as easy to be an entrepreneur? Why is it more difficult to be a digital entrepreneur in Sweden than in other countries? This is because the public has not made these investments. We raged on the rankings during the eight years of the Moderates' responsibility. This is something for which we must take responsibility. We do a lot in the area of digitalisation. That's our focus area. Now I hear that your Prime Minister candidate says that digitalisation is the area where it is most important to work with simplifications. It is precisely this area that this government has prioritised, unlike your previous government. I'm glad for this. However, it gets a little strange when Lars Beckman tries to search the government's website and only manages to find a TTIP article – when he can't google on digitisation. If it has not been understood that digitalisation is simplification, there is an uphill approach to getting right against companies when making important investments. We will continue to make it easier for companies to grow, export and create in Sweden. We have very optimistic companies – seven out of ten say they want to grow. The biggest growth barrier at the moment for Swedish companies is the supply of skills. It's really exciting; they want to hire. We work with smart education policies and public investment in the form of housing, infrastructure and broadband. It is more important to keep Swedish growth going than tax cuts that are most for the richest people in Sweden. There is a dividing line in Swedish politics. We have a good track record when it comes to how companies develop in Sweden. We will continue to develop this, even with better and smarter rules – not least by working with digitalisation to simplify companies' conditions.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-130	Madam President, I would like Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked me how I intend to proceed with the proposal to make Gotland self-sufficient in renewable energy when it is at the same time a stop to connect new electricity producers online. Emma Wallrup has asked me three questions about renewable energy on Gotland. The first question is whether I intend to take measures to ensure that biogas production in Sweden has long-term sustainable competitive conditions. The second question is whether I intend to promote measures that stimulate the capture and use of carbon dioxide for transport purposes. The third question is whether I intend to take any further initiatives to support Gotland in its efforts to be completely independent of electricity generation from the outside world. First of all, I would like to thank you for your intervention, as they draw attention to a number of important and topical issues. The background to the questions is the assignment that the Swedish Energy Agency had to produce a preliminary study on how Gotland can become a pilot who takes the lead in the transition to a smart and renewable energy system. The preliminary study, which was submitted to the Government Office on 10 April, assesses, among other things, that it is perfectly possible to create a robust and renewable energy system on Gotland. The preliminary study is focused on how Gotland can become a pilot leading towards the goals agreed in the Energy Agreement and set out in the Energy Policy Agenda bill, which was submitted to the Riksdag on 12 April. The focus is therefore not on how Gotland can become an isolated system. Jesper Skalberg Karlsson's question about being able to connect renewable electricity production on Gotland is important, not least given the good resources available on the island when it comes to sun and wind. However, it should be pointed out that there is currently no stop to investments in renewable electricity production in Gotland. On Gotlands Energi's website it is clear that anyone who wants to can connect solar power production to Gotland's electricity grid. In order to increase the connection of larger electricity generation, such as wind power, there are several interesting and innovative technologies that can become relevant, such as energy stocks, control of production and consumption, and more. The Swedish Energy Agency has therefore commissioned a study of Vattenfall to define the technical possibilities available to connect new large-scale electricity generation in Gotland and increase security of supply with the existing cables to the island owned by Vattenfall. The study also includes developing a long-term plan for mainland connection, to ensure development and make it clear to stakeholders what applies in the long term. Emma Wallrup's first question on biogas and the competitive position of our national producers have been in the Chamber several times. I fully agree with Emma Wallrup that we need to find a solution. But I can see that there are no simple ones. Biogas plays an important role in the transition to a fossil-free Sweden. In order to support the production of biogas in Sweden, the Government proposes to increase the support for biogas production by SEK 270 million in 2018 during the current year. In addition, the Government intends to add the announced report on the long-term conditions of biogas. The second question put by Emma Wallrup concerns the capture and use of carbon dioxide for transport purposes. It is one of several new technologies that may play a role in the transformation of the transport system. But technology is not commercially available today. One way of promoting future solutions in the transport sector is the strong efforts being made for research and innovation in the energy sector. The government has also gradually increased the funding for the research programme, and by 2020 the level will be approximately SEK 1.6 billion per year. The Government also intends to analyse the conditions for carbon capture and storage within the framework of a study that will develop proposals for a strategy for how Sweden will achieve negative emissions after 2045. It should also take into account the possibility of using captured CO2 as an input in other processes as it may contribute to the substitution of fossil inputs. Emma Wallrup's final question concerns possible further initiatives to support Gotland's efforts in the field of energy. In the preliminary study, the Swedish Energy Agency proposes that they be given a continuation assignment. I welcome this and the government intends to come back to this issue. A feasibility study is, as we know, just a start. Finally, I note that the transformation of the energy system is not just a technical project, but is, to the very least, a social project carried out jointly by the public, the business community and the individual citizen. I am convinced that the necessary momentum exists on Gotland. It was noticed not least when I visited Visby when the Swedish Energy Agency presented its preliminary study.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-144	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. The Swedish Energy Agency's preliminary study is a rather well-written document, and there is much there that is wise. If you want to learn about Gotland's energy supply, it is good to start there. However, it is a report that provides far from all the answers, especially with regard to the main issue: how to make the island self-sufficient in renewable energy. We can take as an example a basic industry such as agriculture and the green industries. Gotland is a food producing county that exports to the whole country. Nutrition is measured in different ways, and depending on what you measure, agriculture is the largest or second largest industry on Gotland, in close competition with the tourism and tourism industry. Whether it is the largest or the second largest, agriculture has been on the island for hundreds of years. It is a basic nutrition for Gotland. In terms of labour force, agriculture employs about one in five people, including food processing. However, the question is how to make agriculture self-sufficient on energy or more specifically on diesel. The tractor that pulls the plow runs on diesel, and diesel we do not manufacture on the island. Then go to the alternatives: biogas or electricity. Both of those techniques have quite a long way to go to break through widely. Finnish tractor company Valtra has developed prototypes for biogas tractors. They haven't made much progress. And John Deere has developed a tractor that runs on electricity. But it is also a prototype. And it sounds like a jet. It may also be added that it is doubtful whether farmers can have tractors that run on electricity. For example, at harvest, which is an intense time, the question is whether there is time to charge the tractor every two days or if every other day. Madam President, I would like Throughout the report there is endless optimism about what may come to pass a little later or soon. I can't help but think about the flight and the flight tax. The Red Green Government has chosen to tax flights because it is known that the conversion of the aircraft fleet will take a long time. But if you had the same approach as the Swedish Energy Agency when they looked at Gotland, it would seem that electric aircraft will become a reality in just a few years' time. But both electric tractors and electric airplanes are basically prototypes. Then we must also bear in mind that for the aircraft fleet it is a vehicle. As far as Gotland is concerned, the whole energy system is concerned: the cars, the tractors, the auxiliary power, the redundancy, the swing mass and the biogas. No wonder you get the feeling that this is going to be extremely costly. Who's gonna pay? Madam President, I would like I'm a tech optimist. I believe that many of the challenges we face today can be solved by means of new technologies and innovations in the future. But I also know that politics cannot be based on hope. It is not responsible to set extremely high and ambitious targets and then have as a strategy to keep your fingers crossed for them to become a reality. Excessive technology optimism can also lead to crisis of confidence. You call a wolf enough times, people stop listening. Madam President, I would like In the light of what I have mentioned here, I wonder whether Minister Baylan considers it reasonable to believe that the path indicated in the report is the right one for Gotland to become self-sufficient in renewable energy.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-153	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for the answer to this important question. We live in a climate period that is very tough. We can see that the Gulf Stream is slowing down. This summer there were reports of methane emissions from the tundra, of large craters and of the sinking of houses. I am a biologist, and much of the early signs that we have been afraid of for a very long time are now underway. But we also have a rapid technological development, which has gone faster and is more up and running than we might have thought. That's a good thing. However, the situation means that we need to have a total focus on climate change. It must be the highest priority in all areas at all times, and in a realistic way. We cannot afford to be fuzzy or politically populist. We have to work for real, with real instruments that have an effect. There is no time for just thinking about being re-elected or such things. That's why I also put this interpellation. And it contains several parts. It is interesting to take Gotland as an example, because it is an isolated island where you can work effectively to look at the energy supply and self-sufficiency of renewables. It is therefore exciting that the government is taking this initiative. I ask questions, including how one can benefit biogas. I think it is Swedegas who is behind the fact that it is the year of biogas, and they highlight the circular economy, which is extremely important in the energy sector and the entire production sector. I have also met several operators who work with biogas and who point out that it would be necessary to change the financial producer responsibility in order to have a good opportunity to compete with neighbouring countries, because many plants are closed down in Sweden due to different construction of the regulatory systems. I wonder if the Minister has any further thoughts on this. It is then highlighted that the Ecodesign Directive would need to be properly implemented and that it looks at the entire value chain. In Ronneby municipality, three employees have worked with circular economy for a very long time. It has also begun to look at sewage, nutrient recovery and circular thinking throughout the cycle. The government would like to look at this a little more and highlight as a role model and example in the different strategies. Ronneby has worked very well throughout the concept. We must become circular if we are to cope with the climate crisis. I lift in the interpellation power to gas which is a technology where you can, among other things, use the air in carbon dioxide and make equivalent biogas for ships, so that they have both produced biogas and produced gas via the carbon dioxide of the air. There are also things to do here. The stakeholders working on this mean that the Fuel Quality Directive – where captured carbon dioxide is valued – could be better reviewed and implemented.
i-R8YAgW37RJc31886KxWsME	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jesper Skalberg Karlsson and Emma Wallrup! I'll start with Gotland. It is a feasibility study that is now being carried out. It in turn is based on – as I said in the nterpellation response – that the government's two parties as well as the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Center Party have agreed in the energy agreement to set the target of a 100 percent renewable electricity system in 2040. Such a proposal is also on the table of the Riksdag. I know that Jesper Skalberg Karlsson will also vote in favour of this, because it is a deal between five parties. It is no wonder that in some of the countries that have very good conditions, in this case Gotland, there is a great deal of enthusiasm from both the private business community and the public sector as well as the citizens. You should now see how you can move on and show that you can live a good life. It is possible to be a prominent industry, to produce food, to transport yourself wherever you want and do so in a way that does not necessarily cause a lot of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere that heats up our planet. I will help to move on with this, because it is just a feasibility study. It's just a start. Then Jesper Skalberg Karlsson says: Yes, isn't it a bit optimistic? But it's the other way around. Politics in Sweden has also been the last to enter the course. The reality has long run from the debate on energy policy. Until recently, the energy policy debate has been the same for 40 years. At the same time, the costs of renewable energy have fallen sharply. The cheapest way to invest in new electricity capacity in Sweden today is – hear and behold – wind power on land. That was not the case five or ten years ago, but that is the case today. Technology development goes with such leaps that we are sometimes even a little too pessimistic. Are there problems and challenges? Yes, absolutely. That is why the Swedish Energy Agency has been given this task. Of course, we need to look at this with the stakeholders and see how it can be resolved. This brings me to the next question about biogas and the development of biogas. There is, of course, a challenge here for us. It is based on the fact that Sweden, unlike the other countries of the European Union, has chosen a support system that is concentrated on consumption and not on production. This is clearly not sustainable, not least because some companies have seen that it is possible to use other countries' support systems while using the Swedish system. This upsets the conditions of competition. I have spoken to the Danish Government, and it is difficult to see any other way than that we redo our system. Meanwhile, we further support biogas production by 270 million during this year. I will shortly present an investigator who will conduct an investigation into how the system should be redesigned so that we can have a good development when it comes to biogas in Sweden. Power to gas is a very exciting technology that works. However, costs are still at such a level that they are not commercially viable, but it is clear that they will be. When exactly? So far, we have always underestimated the power of change. Should power to gas have a full impact it not only helps the transport sector and tractors, but it is also a good way to store excess electricity when it blows a lot and is very sunny. In this way, it will do about our entire energy system, not least our electrical system. Sure, there are challenges, but there are also huge opportunities.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-172	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. Yes, I will vote in favour of the 2040 target of zero emissions in Sweden, as it is part of the Environmental Targets Committee's proposal. But I can also see that emission reductions should apply to the whole country. You can't see the counties as separate parts where you take part at a time. When it comes to Gotland, for example, one of Sweden's by far the largest emitters is located in the northern part of Gotland. Cementa is a cement factory that benefits the entire Nordic region. It is clear that there are reasons to look at Sweden as a whole and not just as individual parts. Madam President, I would like The biggest proposal in the report, as has also been mentioned in the debate, concerns large-scale energy storage. That sounds good, but just like other technologies that need to be developed, large-scale energy storage is still not something that can come into place easily and quickly. One can be hopeful that the whole world is currently working on the issue. Our smartest and brightest is working to solve the energy crisis, in the same way as they are working to solve the climate crisis. But there is not a standardised technology. No financing plan can be made for a change because the technology does not exist. We don't know what it's gonna cost. Of course, one can be positive about hydrogen. I am, but is it hydrogen produced from wind and solar power that should be fuel for the whole of Gotland? Then the government or some authority can take the page from their mouth and say it. Madam President, I would like Another angle that is not affected is how we will make it to the point that large-scale energy storage is in place. Right now we are working on the margin of current cables to the mainland. A continued expansion of energy sources that increases and reduces production with the weather is not possible forever. If we are to feed a hydrogen plant with electricity in 2040, wind power needs to be built every year until then, which will be difficult if we do not have the energy produced during that time. Madam President, I would like I would also like to mention a subject that we are a little dancing around in this debate, and that is the third electricity cable to Gotland. The report came into being as a response to the fact that the Swedish power grid is closing down the plans for a third cable. In the report, the Swedish Energy Agency says neither bu nor ba, but it is honest that current cables do not have eternal technical life. And above all: One is very honest with the fact that interference on current cables leads to a total extinguishing of Gotland. If one cable goes down, the electrical system goes down. Gotland has back-up power in the form of diesel and gas, but it is precisely back-up power. It should be remembered that Gotland is in a particularly vulnerable position. A third cable is not just about changing the energy supply to more renewable. It is also about preparedness for crises, both military and others. Madam President, I would like Does the Government not also see that it would be wise to close the third cable in the light of the fact that it makes the energy transition easier and also strengthens Gotland's preparedness? In the interpellation answer, I read a little passus that this is not about making Gotland an isolated system. But the report has been added because Gotland will become an isolated system if you do not get a new cabling in place when current cables are approaching the end of their technical lifetime.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-180	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer. That sounds very positive. However, I am a little worried by the Minister's signal that we should not be too worried. I fully agree that we should have hope and faith. It is very important to spread it, but at the same time we must feel the seriousness of the situation. It is very easy for us politicians to let it go a little because we are comfortable, and we must not be in this position. We are the last to be able to act on this issue and must therefore keep that feeling up, although we can see the enormous opportunities and the growth of renewables going faster than expected. I hope that the Minister will closely monitor power to gas and disseminate information on the progress of the technology in turn. I would like to raise one more issue, and it is about information. When I grew up during the energy crisis in the 1970s there was a huge amount of information about how to save energy. It was about showering less time or turning off the light when you walked out of the room, and the information came from the state. I miss such initiatives today, when we have completely different dimensions. It's actually about the survival of our civilization. It didn't in the '70s. Now the dimension of the issues is greater, yet no such information initiatives are taken. Perhaps it should both go to companies about how they can work and to the citizens about how they can do it. In this way one can convey a feeling that we are now heading in the right direction together and that we are doing this coordinated together in a crisis situation. I am also a little curious about how much the government wants to implement of the circular economy and the Ecodesign Directive. Now some proposals have been made on the circular economy. These include car pools, for example. But a lot more would have to be done. Among other things, this could be done in connection with biogas. You can also focus on consumption and work with companies on how to build business models that are innovative but energy- and resource-efficient. I have spoken to Volvo managers in China and others. They say they're already there because they know they have to, because there's a shortage of resources. I think the government should understand that many of the big companies are already there and have been there for a long time. However, you need to push and set the bar through laws and rules so that all companies can come up against those who are ahead. We should not support those who are the lowest on these issues. I think it would be positive if we were to implement the Ecodesign Directive as a whole with regard to biogas and energy efficiency at all. I'm curious to hear what the Minister thinks about it.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-188	Madam President, I would like Let me start with the questions that Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked. I have the deepest respect for Parliament's ability and right to review the government's policy, but it should be based on real facts. The whole basic thesis in the question that Jesper Skalberg Karlsson is asking me is that it would be a stop to applications for new production on Gotland. That is not the case. Another thing was that if any of the cables to Gotland were to be shut down, the entire electricity production would be shut down. Neither is that true. Each of these cables is capable of power supply to Gotland. These, of course, are cables that have existed for a long time. There have been plans for a third cable, but it has mainly been about being able to replace one of these cables in the long term if there is no reinvestment. However, there are now plans for reinvestment. My message to the Gotlanders is of course: We will never in any way jeopardise the electricity supply for Gotland. On the contrary, this whole project has very little to do with the cables. Rather, it has to do with rapid technological development and the opportunities created by it. That brings me to another point. When we talk about 2040, it is not about emissions, it is about 100% renewable energy, which is also part of the energy agreement. In addition, we have an agreement within not least the Environmental Objectives Committee that applies to zero emissions to 2045. This has been supported by seven parties. So it is both energy and emissions. It is important that the facts are right, otherwise there will be a strange debate and discussion. Let me turn to the question of the cables. Jesper Skalberg Karlsson, together with the rest of the Riksdag, has voted that when Swedish power grids are to make their investments, they must be socio-economically defensible. What the Swedish power grid has come up with according to the instructions of the government and parliament is that in this case it is not. Let me be clear, however: the mission to the Energy Agency had nothing to do with this. Rather, the mission is about harnessing the great opportunities that are now emerging thanks to the rapid technological development at all levels. In answer to Emma Wallrup's questions, I would like to say that I take climate change very seriously. What makes me optimistic from a Swedish perspective is that we have the technology, know-how, resources and muscles to show that this can be done in a different way. Then energy efficiency, as Emma Wallrup raises, is a very important issue. As part of the energy settlement that is now on Parliament's table, we set a goal by 2030 to streamline our use of energy by an additional 50 per cent in relation to bnp. This will include all sectors. For this reason, it has also been the task of the Energy Agency, in dialogue with both the housing sector and the transport sector – yes, all sectors – to develop action plans for how we can do this. One should be aware that technology development facilitates here too. We can take digitalisation or automation as an example. Last year I visited a housing company, Örebro Bostäder, which thanks to new analysis and control technology has managed to reduce the use of electricity by 40 per cent in its property portfolio and the use of heat by 25 per cent. This has been done while tenants feel that their comfort has increased. So we are only at the beginning of a very positive development. It's not made by itself. We must, of course, set targets and action plans, and that is exactly what this is about and about which the Energy Agency's mission has been.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-199	Madam President, I would like If the Minister wants to read that there is a stop to new membership, he can read it on SVT's website from 5 September last year. He can read it in SvD and the online magazine Ny Teknik from 11 September last year and in Expressen from 17 February this year. Madam President, I would like As long as Moderaten Mikael Odenberg was Director General of Swedish Power Networks there were plans to add a third cable to Gotland. We've been talking about and we've been promised a new cable for ten years. But when the red - green government appointed a new gd, the plans for a third cable disappeared quite quickly. The report by the Energy Agency which we have debated today has the task of answering the question: what do we do instead of adding a third cable? Madam President, I would like I think it is clear that the alternative that has been developed and looked at is subject to very great uncertainty. It is hoped that large-scale energy storage will exist quite quickly and can solve the problem. However, while being technology-optimist, one must start from the situation that we have here and now. It tells us that a third electricity cable is the right solution for both the transition of energy supply and the preparedness for crisis.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-202	Madam President, I would like I would like to make one more point in terms of energy efficiency, and this is about informing the citizens. There is a signal value in this. Many are climate sceptics and many think that they give priority to other things. They have a family, they don't have time or they're not interested in taking such a responsibility. But the state could do as in the '70s, but perhaps in a different form. You can go out with information about what the government is doing, what the companies are doing and what we can do together and say that it is very important that we do this. I think this would send a signal, especially in these liberalised times when it feels like no one is steering the boat. It's all individualism. You have to vote with your feet in the grocery store and when you choose electricity producer and so on. This creates feelings, even in those who are good. They wonder how we'll be able to change in time when all the neighbors don't care, don't have time or can't afford it. But if the state were to take a kind of holistic approach and do a mailing once a year or something like that, I think it would give some kind of feeling that we are doing this together. I think it would make all these free wills steer in the right direction in a better way than today.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-204	Madam President, I would like This was demonstrated with considerable clarity by basing their interpellations only on what has been read in the media. It is clear that this was the message of 5 September, but we also have an authority that regulates this, and that decision was subsequently withdrawn. If Jesper Skalberg Karlsson had tried to talk to the energy company in question or the Energy Market Inspectorate, he would have seen that that actually does not apply. But the foundation is still a mission to the Swedish Energy Agency to see if Gotland can go ahead. The answer to the question is yes. There are many challenges associated with it, and a great deal of technological development is needed. But it's not impossible-- the other way around. The optimism and the positive energy I met – from the private business sector, from public actors and from a lot of Gotlanders – when I received the report on Gotland, I take advantage of it. That's why we're going to move on with this mission. At the same time, we will ensure that we have cables so that we guarantee that Gotland has the energy it needs if something happens. Neither the Gotlanders nor the Swedes need worry about this at all. We will always make sure of that. When it comes to energy efficiency, we have recently, together with the Left Party, made a pretty big effort at municipal energy and climate advisors in the sense of helping citizens. At the same time, I feel that today the citizens are not only aware but are also very active. This applies not only to savings in electricity, but also to such things as the recycling of food residues and other things in order to contribute to more sustainable development. In fact, the Swedish people are extremely active in this way. Of course we can and should do more. This is where the technology of digitalisation, automation and electrification comes in. I mean that we should do this, and I feel extremely optimistic – we should be able to meet the challenge.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-209	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked me whether, during my term of office, I intend to introduce a road toll. The Ministry of Finance has referred a memo on a new approach to the taxation of heavy goods vehicles. The memorandum deals with a readable road wear tax with the aim of creating equal competition and order in the haulage industry. The road user tax is proposed to cover a limited part of the road network and to be differentiated between rural and urban areas. The construction of the technical system of taxation could provide information on transport in the country and allow greater enforcement of the rules of the operators involved in heavy road transport. The automatic control stations could, for example, lead to improved control possibilities for cabotage transport, as has been requested by Swedish hauliers. The referral bodies have made their views known and further work is ongoing within the Government Office. I do not intend to anticipate this preparation.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-213	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Stefan Lövven's government has, from the first day they entered Rosenbad, pursued an anti-Norrland policy with increased taxes from a distance. There has been an increase in petrol tax, an increase in diesel tax, an increase in vehicle tax, a deterioration in travel tax, an introduction of air tax and, most recently, a few weeks ago, new environmental zones for cars. In this interpellation debate, it is a matter of plans to introduce a kilometre tax before this term of office is over. In fact, Madam President, the government's proposal for a kilometre tax on heavy goods vehicles is nothing more than a Norrland tax. It is not a tax to deal with environmental problems. It's a tax to punish distance, nothing else. But anyone who wants the whole of Sweden to live, develop and contribute cannot tax distances. The Social Democrats and the Green Party have always wanted to introduce a kilometre tax in Sweden. They promised it before the elections, and they have fought this entire term of office to get a kilometre tax in place. Then you should remember that Sweden is one of the world's most trade-dependent countries. We are on the edge of Europe. We have very long distances within the country and down to the continent. Taxing distances for such a country is very hard on jobs and growth throughout the country. Those most affected, Madam President, are, of course, the most remote parts of the country. But this is a fundamentally very bad policy for the whole of the Swedish economy. I have heard representatives of the government parties highlight two main arguments for the need to introduce this kilometre tax. The first is about the environment. The second is unsound foreign competition, and that is what the Minister is addressing today in his response to interpellation. As far as the environmental argument is concerned, I can say that this is the worst kind of environmental policy, because even if trucks let out just nothing and went on electricity, they would still be taxed for the distances they have. It is a very poor environmental policy that does not reward the switch to more environmentally friendly alternatives at all. With regard to the unhealthy and illegal foreign traffic, which is being addressed, I am very concerned, Madam President, about how another tax on already heavily taxed truckers will help at all. We already have the highest tax on diesel, on trucks and on truck drivers. If high taxes were the answer to these challenges, we would already have the solution. What I cannot understand is why those who come in from abroad and cheat with all the taxes, fees, rules and laws we have in Sweden would pay another new tax. Madam President, I cannot understand this at all. We Moderates have instead proposed another model, with GPS monitoring and boom systems. As soon as you enter Sweden you should pass through bars where sobriety is checked and you get a GPS device in the truck. Then we can follow and monitor the trucks and make sure you pay taxes and charges. We can thus ensure that laws and rules are complied with much better than they are today. Then we can seriously ensure that the foreign trucks pay for themselves and do the right thing. It's a good model. A tax beyond the already highest taxes on transport cannot be the solution, Madam President. I asked the Minister whether these kilometre taxes would be introduced before the elections. I was unable to understand the answer in any other way than to at least continue to work towards it. But I may have misinterpreted the Minister.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-222	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl asks whether we will introduce this during the term of office. I think Edward Riedl is aware that for a long time now we have the bill stop behind us. This is still a referral. The fact that Parliament would have time to decide on something like this before closure may not seem so likely. But if we come up with a bill, it is of course up to the Riksdag. It is a stoppage for proposals that Parliament is obliged to deal with during its term of office. If we make a proposal, it is up to Edward Riedl and other Members of Parliament to decide whether or not to deal with it before the elections. When I listen to Edward Riedl, it seems a little bit like he's arguing against the proposal for road wear tax that came from the Road Wear Tax Committee a while ago. Now there is a completely different proposal out for a referral. It is substantially revised and takes into account, in a completely different way from the original proposal, the geographical differences that we have in the country. It is better for Swedish haulage companies' competitiveness and is much better when it comes to the ability to steer towards environmental change. According to the proposal, only the major roads should be taxed, but it should also be possible to take into account whether alternative modes of transport exist and whether there is a possibility to cross over by rail or by boat. You can then have reduced fees. It can also be taken into account whether it is a sparsely trafficked road. This, of course, means that the impact on transport in Norrland, for which Edward Riedl speaks hotly, is much less than the original proposal. One of the drafts shows that it is mainly the E4 along the coast of Norrland that is affected by a road wear tax. It is also a proposal that can reward the conversion. It is not necessary to design it in such a way that a truck, no matter how much it emits, will pay the same tax. There is an opportunity here to reward those vehicles and lorries that are more environmentally friendly. There is currently also a risk that Germany will have an environmentally responsible road wear charge that it will choose to send the Swedish environmentally friendly trucks to travel on the transports that are in Germany, while instead using the older trucks that emit more in Sweden. The order we have today is in danger of increasing emissions. There is an opportunity for environmental management. As far as competition is concerned, there will be good opportunities to monitor foreign transport via such a tax. This will, of course, improve the conditions of competition for Swedish road hauliers who are doing the right thing. That is also why the haulage industry sees the point of such a tax. Almost 20 per cent, every five kilometres, as a truck travels in Sweden is a transport carried out by a foreign haulier. Then it is good that the foreign hauliers are also involved and help to maintain the Swedish road network. Edward Riedl spoke about the tax on petrol and believes that the level of petrol taxation we have today is very poor and destroys the opportunities for growth in Norrland. Now I read the Moderate Budget Movement just this week. There was no reduction in petrol tax. It can't be so bad if the Moderates don't propose a petrol tax cut, can it?
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-231	Madam President, I would like I put a question to the Minister of Finance as to whether the government intends to present a legislative proposal. What I get back is what the parliamentary order looks like. Thank you, Madam President, and thank you, Minister, but I am quite well aware of that! My question was whether the government intends to try to put it forward and try to get it through. It was my question, The Minister, as I understand it, has still not answered anything but what the parliamentary order looks like, which I assume we both know very well. Madam President, I would like My question remains: will the government try to get the tax through before the elections? I know that the government has some concerns between the Social Democrats and the Green Party in terms of ambitions in different parts. That is why I put the question to the Minister for Finance. What the Minister of Finance says is that I am debating an old proposal. No, Madam President, I absolutely do not. That's exactly what it sounded like in the election campaign. That is what it sounded like when the first investigation directives were put forward, that is to say: no one should be affected by the tax. If you met with the Social Democrats, the forest industry would be excluded. If you met representatives of Norrland, Norrland would not be affected by the treasure. At the same time as everyone should be excluded and no one should be affected, it should withdraw billions of SEK to the Treasury. It will also contribute to the conversion and a variety of other things. I am not allowed to go along with that, Madam President, not this time either. Let me state why it is bad. When it comes to environmental management, it is completely impossible to steer towards environmentally friendly alternatives because it penalises distances and not emissions. That is the great criticism of the proposal. When it comes to improving competition, the criticism remains from me, the Moderates and many others. How will a further tax on the already heavily taxed haulage industry in Europe help to bring foreign competition into line? The problem is that you do not pay taxes and charges and that you do not comply with laws and regulations. Then the government says that the solution to this must be another tax on those already heavily taxed, which will lead to a few things. This will lead to a deterioration in the competitiveness of industry overall in Sweden. There will be another pressure on salaries and conditions for Swedish drivers, and hauliers will be knocked out. That is not the solution in any way. Instead, what we Moderates want to do is to ensure that the laws and regulations we have are complied with and that the taxes and charges to be paid when you are in Sweden and any fines are also ensured. This is done with a GPS technology where we both control with boom systems when trucks enter Sweden and control sobriety but also control all the different parts. Then we can really do something about this. What the Swedish Tax Agency is saying is that, under this government, there is already billions of fraud from foreign hauliers when it comes to not paying the Eurovignette. It is an alternative system for them to pay for the roads they work on when they are inside Sweden. There's a huge amount of cheating going on. We should ensure that we get that money and make competition equal. The problem today is that we have the hardest-taxed haulage industry in Europe, while trucks come to Sweden that cheat with the laws and regulations we have and do not pay taxes and charges. Then the solution from the government is: we give you another tax. The problem is that what will happen is that – as usual – the Swedish haulage companies will have to pay the new taxes. Those who already cheat will continue to try to cheat just as they do with all the other taxes we have. It cannot possibly be the solution to this.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-242	Madam President, I would like Now I didn't get an answer about the gas tax. Edward Riedl is obviously very concerned about the tax situation of the haulage industry. But again: In the Moderate Budget Movement that was presented yesterday or if it was the day before yesterday, I can't find any tax reductions just for the haulage industry. Nevertheless, it seems that Edward Riedl is quite satisfied – or if he is not, then at least the party he represents – with the tax situation in the Swedish haulage industry. As far as the parliamentary order is concerned, the question is whether or not the government wants to introduce a road wear tax during its term of office. It is both a proposal from the government or not and a decision by the parliament to act. You cannot introduce a tax without the Riksdag having decided that it should be introduced. We have now received the referral points on the memo that was out for a referral. We're treating it now. Then we will decide on how we, the government, move forward. Regardless of which decision we make, we depend on the decisions made by the Riksdag. As far as competition is concerned, there are huge problems on Swedish roads today. Swedish hauliers are under severe pressure from unfair competition from rogue foreign hauliers. This is not a situation that we can accept. Nor is it a situation with which the Swedish haulage industry is satisfied. This is why the Swedish haulage industry sees an opportunity with a road wear tax system and the monitoring it entails in order to improve competitiveness vis-à-vis foreign hauliers. With the transponder solution proposed, we will be able to control the trucks that drive on the Swedish roads. It will then be difficult to cheat with the tax and engage in illegal cabotage as we know it is on the roads today. It will improve the situation of the domestic haulage industry and will make foreign carriers pay higher taxes in Sweden than they do today. I personally think it is very good that we thus have an opportunity to protect the Swedish haulage industry. There is also an opportunity to steer towards the environment. You can have higher charges if it is trucks that emit a lot of CO2 and lower charges on the trucks that emit some CO2. This is one way to be able to control the transport industry so that we get more environmentally friendly trucks in Sweden. It is also a way of controlling goods from environmentally hazardous truck transport to more environmentally friendly transport by rail and boat. It is important for us to get through the planet, to stop climate change and to stop the warming that threatens the life of our planet. When we ask what concerns the Swedish people most, the answer is climate change. It is about us being able to live a continued good life in Sweden and on the planet. Then more must be done to steer from dangerous CO2-emitting trucks to more environmentally friendly lorries and more environmentally friendly transport. It is about taking responsibility for our children and for future generations. That's the responsibility the government wants to take.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-252	Madam President, I would like I will answer the Minister's question, and I hope that the Minister will do the same for me and answer the question I asked her to come to Parliament and answer. The answer to the question of the petrol tax is that we Moderates will come back in the election movement, and I will of course do everything I can to stop both over-indexation and, hopefully, to put a stop to taxation on petrol. But we can come back to that in the election campaign. My question to the Minister was not about technology and how parliamentary work works. I have a good eye on that, Madam President. My question to the Minister was whether the government intends to try to get the mileage tax through before the end of its term of office. Perhaps the answer can be seen that the Minister does not know. Perhaps so, and then she can say it: I don't know if we will. If so, it is the answer to the question; otherwise it is yes or no. With regard to the technique of unfair competition, as described by the Minister, I would say illegal competition. If you do not pay taxes and charges and do not comply with laws and regulations, it is illegal competition and not unfair competition. I think it is important to ensure that there is a difference between these. We agree that we should have greater compliance with the rules. My question to the Minister is just how additional taxes on Swedish hauliers will solve the problem of those who come from outside and are already cheating today. Why should they pay another tax when they do not pay the other taxes and charges and do not comply with the laws and regulations we have? I think it is good if you can get some sort of transponder solution and that the government is considering the solution we Moderates have secured since before. Finally, what I would like to ask the Minister is: how much can it be transferred from truck to road and rail? That is about 57%, and the last percentage is extremely expensive. And in what way is this governance for a better environment, Madam President? I think the Minister should answer that question.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-259	Madam President, I would like How can this be environmental? Yes, by paying higher taxes for lorries that emit a lot of CO2 and lower taxes for trucks that emit a little bit of CO2. In this way you get an environmental management. It has been shown that economic instruments have been very effective in steering away from environmentally hazardous activities. This is something we have been working with in Sweden for a long time. We are at the forefront of the world. Unfortunately, however, it is not the Moderates who have been driving these issues, but it is Social Democrats and environmentalists and even Left Partyists who have driven them. So do we this time. This is an opportunity to increase environmental governance and improve the conditions of competition for the Swedish industry. With a transponder solution, it is easier to monitor and withdraw the tax than it is at present. That is why this improves competitiveness. Here, monitoring opportunities are much better. This tax will be difficult to evade, and I assume that this is precisely an important reason why the haulage industry thinks this is an interesting proposal. Now we will review the referrals, and then the government will come back with information on how to proceed with the matter. But it is clear: When we are going to improve the competitiveness of the Swedish haulage industry and when we are going to increase environmental management, we do not have the Moderates with us. Unfortunately, I'm not surprised.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-263	Madam President, I would like Richard Jomshof has asked the Minister for Children, the Elderly and Gender Equality whether the government will reconsider its previous position on the issue of non-medical circumcision and present a similar proposal in Sweden to what has now been presented in Iceland. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The proposal put forward in Iceland prohibits the circumcision of boys under the age of 18. If the proposal were to be adopted, Iceland would be the first country in Europe to have such a ban. Circumcision of boys raises questions as to where the line goes between different ethical principles, such as between religious freedom and children's rights as expressed in the Convention on the Rights of the Child. I fully understand that the issue raises debate and that the practice can be both criticised and defended from different perspectives. In Sweden, special legislation has been in place since 2001 on non-medical circumcision of boys, the so-called Circumcision Act(2001:499). The purpose of the law is for such circumcision to be carried out in a safe manner and in the best interests of the child. Circumcision may only be carried out by qualified doctors or by persons specifically authorised by the Inspection for Care. If the boy is older than two months, the procedure may only be performed by a qualified doctor. The boy's attitude must be clarified as far as possible, and an intervention must not be carried out against the boy's will. In all circumcision, pain relief should be provided by a qualified doctor or nurse. The procedure shall be carried out under satisfactory hygienic conditions and with regard to what is best for the boy. A person who performs circumcision without being a qualified doctor or without a special permit can be sentenced to a fine or imprisonment for a maximum of six months. Circumcision of boys is also subject to the provisions of the Patient Safety Act. This means, among other things, that such activities must be notified to IVO and that it is under IVO's supervision. The background to the Circumcision Act was that under then applicable law and under certain circumstances it was not considered punishable to circumcise boys outside the health care system. After careful consideration of the pros and cons of different options, the government concluded that a ban was not in question, as it was seen that it could increase the risk of illegal and unsafe interventions. Instead, a regulation was put in place to prevent the intervention from taking place in a way that is incompatible with the best interests of children. There is no intention on the part of the government to reconsider this.
i-9a9yvx9rqFLDWnccLExjoB	Madam President, I would like In 2001, parents were allowed to circumcise their sons for religious reasons. In 2007, the National Board of Health and Welfare presented a report proposing the introduction of a statutory law on non-medical circumcision of boys in health care and the corresponding obligation for county councils to do so. Although there is no such statutory obligation for our county councils today, there is, however, a recommendation from Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils from 2009 which means that all county councils will offer non-medical circumcision. However, a large number of county councils have chosen not to follow this recommendation, which among other things is defended with poor finances and that they do not see it as medical care. Last year, for example, Region Skåne chose to remove the subsidies for these interventions and to leave it to the parents to pay the cost themselves. Today, 7 out of 21 regions and county councils carry out or subsidise this. Madam President, I would like The criticism of non-medical circumcision is widespread. A total of eleven debaters, including Bengt Westerberg, Professor Staffan Bergström at Karolinska Institutet and Chief Physician Gunnar Göthberg at Queen Silvias Children's Hospital in Gothenburg, wrote in a debate article in DN 2011: Empathy and respect in this context should be shown to those on whom the operation is carried out, not to those who stand by and celebrate the irreversible labelling of the child. ..................................................... In February 2012, we were able to read in the Gothenburg Post that the Swedish Children's Association had turned to the National Board of Health and Welfare with a letter that takes a stand against non-medical circumcision – this because the procedure violates the individual child's integrity and self-determination over both his or her own body and future religious opinion. In September 2013, the Chairman of the Health Care Association signed a debate article together with, among others, the Children's Ombudsman, in which it writes: Given that the procedure is irreversible and can lead to serious complications, we see it as fundamental that parental rights are not put before the child's right to co-determination, physical integrity and protection against harmful practices. ..................................................... On 16 January this year, the Ethical Council of Nurses made the following statement: a nurse's Ethics Council considers that circumcision of boys who are not medically motivated is incompatible with the child's right to privacy, self-determination and the best interests of the child under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. The operation should only be carried out if the person concerned can give his or her consent to the action. – – Nurses should have the patient's health as the primary goal and never deviate from the principle of equal value. Nurses have an ethical responsibility to respect human rights and intervene when people's health is threatened. Therefore nurses should not contribute to non-medical circumcision of boys. .....................................................
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-276	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Jomshof, for this extremely important interpellation which touches on an issue that is very difficult! It is not least because, as you describe it yourself, circumcision involves irreversible physical intervention. Then it is natural that these kinds of questions should be asked and that they should be asked repeatedly. I also know that it is an issue that has been discussed among the Nordic children's ombudsmen who have a strong opinion on the issue – one questions whether circumcision should be carried out on boys in this way. At the same time, we must not forget that, internationally, non-medical circumcision of boys is not an unusual phenomenon. WHO estimated in 2007 that 30 percent of all men are circumcised. We also know that among Jews and Muslims this is an issue that has a strong religious base and that there have been difficult discussions and debates in Sweden and elsewhere in the world when this issue has been raised. Jewish boys are usually circumcised on the eighth day of life and Muslim boys at varying ages, usually between seven days and ten years of age. I think it should nevertheless be noted that in North America, for example, circumcision takes place even in families that are not Jewish or Muslim. The main reasons for this are the hygienic benefits, but there is little support if you are to be honest. In the United States we have a situation where a majority of men are circumcised. The latest data we know are from 2010, when it was estimated that about 58 percent of all newborn boys were circumcised. As I know that you, Richard Jomshof, have had a long-standing commitment to this issue, I am also convinced that you know that the law of circumcision came into place because the then government considered that there were strong reasons to produce a regulation with the aim of ensuring that the circumcisions that nevertheless took place, whether we wanted it or not, could take place in a more secure way and prevent the risk of illegal and unsafe interventions. It is legislation that is in fact a very careful balance with regard to the best interests of the child and with regard to religious and cultural aspects. I very much understand that you raise the question, Richard Jomshof. It's hard. We have also discussed it in recent years at the Ministry of Social Affairs, but at the moment we have come to the conclusion that there are insufficient reasons for making a change. Iceland may now take the lead, and we will of course follow with interest what the process will be like in Iceland and how it will be received there. I'll stay there for so long and I'll be happy to listen more.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-282	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer, Minister of Social Affairs. We can see that the resistance to non-medical circumcision is extensive. What I read out in my last speech is just a few examples. I would like to clarify and sum up what I consider to be the main arguments against what I consider to be a statutory genital mutilation of boys. First of all, the procedure usually takes place so early in life that the person being circumcised is not able to choose or speak up for himself. I believe that it is contrary to fundamental medical-ethical principles and to the patient law, which talks about respect for the patient's integrity and the right to be involved in deciding on actions and decisions concerning the person concerned. Secondly, I believe that the intervention is contrary to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which states, among other things, that the States Parties must respect the child's right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion and take all appropriate measures to protect the child against any form of harm or abuse. In addition, States Parties shall take all effective measures with a view to abolishing traditional practices which are harmful to children's health. Thirdly, the procedure is irreversible and can lead to serious complications such as bleeding and infections. For example, the Health Care Association writes on its website that the procedure is painful and that it overall lacks health benefits for the child. It also states that serious complications have occurred in circumcision and provides examples of a child's death even though the procedure was performed by a doctor. Fourthly, a circumcised penis becomes less sensitive to stimulation. The reason for this is that the procedure removes thousands of sensitive nerve endings. Fifthly, a circumcised penis is not more hygienic in itself, not least because ollon and urethra are left more exposed to dirt and bacterial attacks. It is also known that in newborns the absence of foreskin means constant contact with urine and faeces. In addition, circumcised men are at increased risk of urinary narrowing and urinary tract infection, which may lead to kidney damage. Sixthly, genital mutilation of girls has been prohibited since 1982, which I believe is relevant in this context. I believe that it is forbidden for girls to stifle by sex, of course, to be forbidden to stifle boys. Everything else is discriminatory. Seventhly, the Minister for Social Affairs talks about freedom of religion, or at least mentions it as a concept, in his reply. I would like to point out that freedom of religion also means freedom from religion, which is very relevant in this context. I am fully aware that there are groups, not least in North America, which are not Muslims and Jews, but Christians and also non-believers who perform this kind of intervention. For me, it's completely irrelevant. It's not about religion or culture. It's about an operation on boys who are reprehensible. It doesn't matter who does it, and it doesn't matter if a majority is circumcised in some parts of the world. It's still wrong. We must dare to go in the front line and say stop to things that are bad, and that is bad. In this connection, I would like to ask the following question: it is nevertheless the case that the government and the Minister for Social Affairs are de facto taking a stand for genital mutilation of boys. It is an operation that not only imposes a religious identity on the child and violates the child's integrity, but also exposes the child to an irreversible procedure that is detrimental to life. Is it really no more important than that there are groups that may use religion, culture, or whatever as an argument?
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-294	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that we are having a debate that is nuanced, and I notice that you, Richard Jomshof, are very well-read on these issues. However, I would like to emphasise once again that these were very difficult considerations. The then government took a stand to regulate this area, which was previously completely unregulated. I think we had a case that was even in the Supreme Court, if it was in 1997, that led to the initiation of a process to get legislation in place. At that time, a boy had been seriously injured in some form of illegal circumcision, and there was no way to demand any responsibility. Somewhere, the balance was to get regulation in place that still increases the protection of children, and if circumcision takes place, it should be done in a safe manner and within the framework of health care. Despite this, I know that there is still intervention, probably illegal, in Sweden. Let's not turn a blind eye to that. The current debate is good. You should, and you can, never lock yourself in a question like this. We will of course follow the developments and debate that are taking place in the world around us, which the Nordic Ombudsmen have highlighted and which the professions highlight. The issue should be taken seriously, and we do. I also know that in addition to the initiative taken in Iceland, a citizens' initiative has also been taken in Denmark. I do not really know how far they have come, and it is clear that these initiatives also affect the Swedish debate. What I think is important is that the Council of Europe has made some clear statements that circumcision of boys, unlike genital mutilation of girls, is not considered a violation of human rights and should not be prohibited. I can imagine that they have had just as difficult balances to do as the then government had in being torn between different groups and wills and the view of circumcision as a phenomenon. The UN Committee on the Rights of the Child has expressed concern about the male circumcision carried out under unsafe and unhygienic conditions. The Committee has stated that circumcision is one of the practices that should be examined in the light of the principles of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. However, the Committee has not criticised circumcision in itself or expressed the same strong condemnations as in the case of female genital mutilation. It is also not an operation with really the same consequences as in the case of genital mutilation of girls. I know that the World Health Organisation, the WHO, even recommends circumcision in some parts of the world where there are very high HIV rates. There is some support for reducing the transferability of sexual contact. All of this is said to take into account some different perspectives on what the debate looks like in the outside world. In Sweden there are today four special permits, in addition to the one for health care – among them Jewish parishes.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-301	Madam President, I would like It was in mid-February that the bill was presented in Iceland. As the Minister of Social Affairs says, we'll see what you land in there. It will be very interesting to follow the question. I am also well aware of the debate that is going on, and has been going on for a long time, in Denmark. I agree that these are difficult considerations. There are so many arguments against this form of circumcision. I've read out what I think is most important. However, the arguments for absenteeism shine in their absence. There is talk of freedom of religion. The problem then, for example, is that if you take a stand for circumcision, looking from a religious perspective, it may mean that if someone makes the idea – as I know – of cutting off the earlobes of their children as a means of marking religion, you would have to accept it for exactly the same reason. Or let's say a group wants to tattoo their children with big runes. I'll laugh about it.
i-f7afb77cd6fa498e-0	I see. ) ... but somewhere you'd have to accept it. It would be discriminatory to say no to that when you say yes to something else that is actually far worse. You paint yourself a little bit in a corner. There are no sustainable arguments for circumcision, but I think it is a fear of being accused of various things. The argument that many in the world perform circumcision is usually used, but what if it had been a new proposal? Let us say that circumcision had not existed before and representatives of a religion had said that they now want to cut off a piece of their little boys' penises, a piece of the foreskin. I think most people would have reacted with disgust. That is why we must dare to say no. It is not acceptable or sustainable. I am well aware that the enforcement that was introduced anyway is a step in the right direction– I agree with that. But circumcision is something that must be banned. That is not acceptable. After all, it is 2018, and we should not accept the kind of practices that violate children.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-306	Madam President, I would like Circumcision is a matter that deserves to be followed. I also agree with the interpellier's approach to the question that if something were to be put into effect today, the discussion would probably have been different. There's no turning a blind eye. Circumcision is a practice which, on the one hand, has a religious connection, which we are discussing here, and, on the other hand, is a practice used and used in large parts of the world. It is therefore difficult to see that a direct ban would have desirable consequences, namely the cessation of the practice. The risk is that these children will be placed in a situation where they are exposed to illegal and unsafe abuse. This is an ethically difficult issue. It has also been discussed on several occasions by Smer, for example, who has weighed the various parts of the matter in different directions. For my part, I would like to make a clear statement. I really take on board the points that have been made here, and I understand them. We will follow the question of what is happening in the other Nordic countries. It has, of course, been important for us to also take note of what the ombudsmen of children have put forward. It is about the positions of all Nordic child ombudsmen, and we have listened to the professions. Then we will have to think about how we take the matter forward in the next step in a wise way. Thank you for a good interpellation.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-311	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman has asked me which of the health crises in the social democratic-led county councils I consider to be the most urgent to solve. He has also asked me whether I intend to set up a crisis commission to review health care throughout Sweden. Landstingen is responsible for providing good health care and planning its health care based on the need for care for those who are subject to county councils' responsibility. It is the county councils' responsibility to ensure that the tax resources at their disposal are used effectively and that citizens are offered healthcare in accordance with the laws adopted by the Riksdag. The Government continuously reviews healthcare throughout Sweden, mainly through its authorities, but also by setting up public investigations. For example, the National Board of Health and Welfare has recently reported its annual government commission on the availability of healthcare. The Agency for Health and Care Analysis and the Inspection for Health and Social Care have also produced illustrative reports in this area. In many cases, the authorities' reports also contain county councils-specific statistics and results that help to openly report and highlight the problems that exist in healthcare in all county councils. The long-term work carried out in the investigation Coordinated development for good and close care is an example of the Government having seen a need for a national review of legislation and other measures aimed at stimulating development work that will, among other things, increase the availability and quality of healthcare. The recent investigation into care and the report Knowledge-based and equal care are also good examples of this. The Government has seen a need to explore the forms and effectiveness of decision-making and implementation processes in procurement and investment in contractual cooperation between the public and private health sector. This is done against the background of the New Karolinska Solna case, NKS. Accessibility in healthcare is a priority for the government. The need for care has increased, partly due to an ageing population. Large retirements and a strained staff situation pose challenges to ensure efficient organised care with the right skills in the right place. The production of care has increased – but not enough to meet the growing needs. Regardless of the reasons, we cannot, of course, be satisfied with today's accessibility figures. However, the question of accessibility in healthcare cannot be resolved by a single simple measure. It needs to be addressed from several different directions, based on the complex health and healthcare system we have in Sweden. The government chose not to continue with the queue billions, including when it attacked the symptoms of the problems rather than their causes. The queues we see today have been built up over time since 2013, and the queue billion did not help solve the problems in the long term. The embodiment was also criticised for leading to displacement effects and creative recording of waiting times. The Government has taken several measures to support county councils in tackling accessibility problems. Among other things, major efforts are being made to strengthen efforts to secure the provision of skills for care. The government has also proposed a reinforced health guarantee in primary care to allow more patients to obtain a medical assessment more quickly from qualified health professionals. Part of the patient billion bet should support the introduction of such a bet. To further strengthen the ongoing efforts to increase accessibility, we now add SEK 600 million to our amending budget.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-320	Madam President, I would like It may not be bursting with commitment to Swedish healthcare, the answer given by Annika Strandhäll. All of the people, nearly half a million, who are waiting to get the right care – now at the wrong time – hardly feel safer meeting a responsible minister who cannot mobilise a greater commitment to answer questions. Madam President, I would like Annika Strandhäll has doubled the healthcare queues in Sweden since she took office as Minister. One of the reasons for this is, of course, that the financial control systems have been changed, which means that the health care money is no longer being used in the way that it should be used to provide care to those who need it. Instead, Annika Strandhäll and her government have prioritised a number of different political will directions and projects that lack support for them to somehow benefit patients, make healthcare more functional or provide better care at the right time. Annika Strandhäll has doubled the healthcare queues, and the worst is in the county councils that Annika Strandhäll's party colleagues run. There the medical queues are very long and the human suffering is very great. Annika Strandhäll chooses to completely dismiss the methods that have historically proven to shorten these queues and give these people a better quality of life and a better everyday life. Annika Strandhäll does this, of course, for purely political reasons – it does not fit into the political world of social democracy in which she finds herself. Instead, half a million people are left waiting for care. You are happy to do a large number of raising contributions – of course just in time for an election campaign so that people can get a few hundred extras when it's time to go to the ballot boxes. But what happens in Gävleborg, in Västerbotten, in Norrbotten, in the shop windows that Annika Strandhäll has for her care policy? We take Gävleborg as an example. There, healthcare queues have increased dramatically – from nine out of ten in time to six out of ten receiving care on time – under the leadership that Annika Strandhäll has set the tone for in social democracy and in the government. How can Annika Strandhäll be satisfied with this, and why does Annika Strandhäll say no to the three extra queue billions that we want to provide care? Why is political stickhorses and familiar patterns so important? The people in the care queue are of course worried about Facebook updates and Instagram updates about the best girls' group and not least about the type of Strandhällshandels that we now have at Försäkringskassan. All the focus moves away from what is Sweden's real and big problems, namely that the healthcare queues have doubled. I wonder why Annika Strandhäll can't say this: During my time as a minister, the medical queues have doubled, and it's because of political blinkers that I've had on me. Now I'm going to take them off and embrace the policies that actually work. It is a policy in which the county councils get the right incentives and the right driving forces and where the healthcare professionals – nurses, nurses, doctors – get the right tools to carry out the care that is actually needed in Sweden. Why is it more important with various left-wing political experiments, profit debates and regulatory debates, and to fire Directors-General than it is to ensure that the resources of welfare come to the people who need them? Why is social democracy and social democratic power more important than patients' access to health care?
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-328	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Niklas Wykman, for this interpellation and your newly awakened commitment to health care! Niklas Wykman has several party colleagues with whom I have debated this issue in this House. I can see that they are obviously much more well-read in health matters than Niklas Wykman is. I think Niklas Wykman knows that Annika Strandhäll does not run the county councils – I hope so, at least, given that he is a Member of Parliament – but that the county councils are governed by the political leaders elected by the Swedish voters in the respective county councils. Eight of Sweden's county councils are governed in part or entirely by Moderates or another alliance party. When you reduce the important health issues in the way Niklas Wykman is now doing, it becomes an incredibly boring and actually bad debate. The voters deserve better. We have huge challenges in health care in Sweden. Needs are growing rapidly. By 2023 we will have 300 000 more 70-plusers. The fantastic employees we have in the Swedish county councils are working every day to meet the rapidly increasing needs. I'm out in both bourgeois and social democracy-led county councils every day. They are struggling with exactly the same challenges to meet their needs and cope with skills supply. That is what has happened during this parliamentary term. Niklas Wykman is talking about the cue billion. I do not know if Niklas Wykman knows this, but I know that his party colleagues do: we have contributed 13 billion during this term of office which it has been possible to use as queue billions in the county councils. No county council has chosen to do so, because it will not solve the health crisis by making existing staff run faster. Margins don't exist. If you don't have surgical nurses, you don't have surgical nurses who can run faster to perform the operations, but they're empty in the operating rooms. That is why the government chose to reschedule the policy, and that is why we have expanded the number of training places to the specialist nurse, under the nurse, midwife and nurse during this term of office with over 3 000 seats. Those who attend these trainings will come out and strengthen care, which is exactly in accordance with what both bourgeois and Social Democratic politicians in the county councils say they need. I find it sad that the question is reduced to which government it is about in the various county councils. It's not about that. In that case, you can read about Stockholm County Council every day and soon, who struggles with their challenges – which look exactly the same – and have to send patients to Social Democratically controlled county councils to graze their surgical queues. Or look at the Västra Götaland region, which has been governed by the Moderates during this term of office and which accounts for about 27 per cent of the increase in healthcare queues in Sweden. But I don't want us to sink to that level. This requires an adult conversation, it requires adult action and it requires a long-term approach. That's what health care personnel deserve from us politicians – not to stand here and refer to Instagram posts and other things.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-335	Madam President, I would like I referred to Annika Strandhäll's Instagram post, and I understand that the Minister thinks it is at a low level to do so in view of what the Minister says in these posts about best girls' gangs and other things that are not worthy of taking responsibility for a country and running a country. When it comes to the level of the debate, Annika Strandhäll says that it is not about the leadership of the various politically governed county councils. Last night Annika Strandhäll said because a sewer pipe had broken that the county council needs a new line, both at the hospital and in the county council. Today Annika Strandhäll stands here and says that it doesn't matter what we have in the pipelines. Yesterday, the minister told the pee-and-bajs jokes about wires. This is not a sustainable way to control Sweden, Annika Strandhäll. One cannot have such a low level of political debate. You cannot give an authority a mission to reduce sickness rates, savings and measures, and withdraw people's assistance, and then, when the agency does so, fire the Director General and send a bill of SEK 5.8 million to taxpayers so that work that you have ordered yourself will not be carried out – so that in an election campaign you can say that you want something other than what you have just done. The Swedish people see through this. It is possible to follow up what has happened. It doesn't matter what kind of political governance it is in the various county councils," says the Minister. But I suppose it goes without saying that it does. The medical queues are much longer in the Social Democratically controlled county councils. That's where the medical queues increase most and are at their longest. Take Gävleborg, Västerbotten and Norrbotten – where do you have the longest medical queues? In Stockholm, where the Minister engages in a very large party political campaign and spends the government and Sweden's resources and Swedish taxpayers' money on special commissioning investigations and audits to try to access a moderate government council, access to primary care and specialist care is, if not best in Sweden, among the absolute best. It is difficult to compete in health care with moderate-controlled Halland, which has the absolute best access to healthcare in Sweden. But Stockholm has, if not best, so second or third best access to healthcare in Sweden. Yet the Minister says it doesn't matter who's in charge. But Annika Strandhäll, the director of Gävleborg, where the healthcare queues are increasing dramatically, in Västerbotten, where the healthcare queues are very long and increasing, and in Norrbotten is Social Democratic. It is governed with a zealous political will: one must not have incentives to carry out health care. Instead of addressing health care problems and queues and introducing the three queue billions proposed by the Moderates, Annika Strandhäll is stuck in a political model where it is so important that she is allowed to take part in the detailed management of how things should be designed. It is not me who is responsible for health care, but the county councils," says Annika Strandhäll. At the same time, she happily talks about various initiatives and about the money that the government and Annika Strandhäll are going to bring to health care for it to be good. You have to choose which foot you want to stand on, Annika Strandhäll. It is not that you are responsible for the good things and someone else is responsible for the bad things. Either you are responsible or you are not, and unfortunately you are ultimately responsible for the policy pursued in Sweden. This has resulted in doubled healthcare queues. If we are really going to talk about health care and ignore all your personal insults to me that I can't, am not up to date and so on, answer the question, Minister: Why have the medical queues doubled in Sweden during the time you have been a minister?
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-343	Madam President, I would like I noted at the beginning of Niklas Wykman's speech that he did exactly what I said: he did not talk at all about either his interpellation or health care. I guess you thought it was nice not to have to. I replied in my previous interpellation response precisely to why the queues increased in the Swedish health care system, Niklas Wykman. Once again, you are turning this debate into something that is completely wrong. You measure different county councils against each other. What about Jämtland Härjedalen, where Social Democrats and Moderates rule together? In four county councils we actually control block-crossing. This is going to be a really remarkable debate. It is clear that the responsible health and medical politicians in each county council are responsible for the tax revenue collected and for operating healthcare activities. Then I have a responsibility to ensure that there are enough training and that county councils have the right conditions to complete their mission. Therefore, the government has also contributed significant funds to the county councils during this term of office. I don't go in there and control detail in County Sweden. I hope Niklas Wykman knows that. This is also, I think, extremely offensive to the health care professional who does an incredibly good job every day. Let me take an example from the Västra Götaland region, which is governed by the Alliance together with the Green Party. There is a situation in which the needs of emergency care have increased exponentially. I met two weeks ago the ER staff at Sahlgrenska and sat and talked to them. Among other things, I met their boss, who had previously been head of the emergency room at the East Hospital for four years. He described that the number of visits to the emergency room during his time as manager there increased by 42 percent. I think we all understand that we cannot solve the concerns we have in health care with billions of insolent names. The picture is complex, and it is about us being a rapidly ageing population in Sweden. People are living longer and longer. You're multisick, and we have an extremely large number of chronologists. Today, 80 to 85% of the health care resources go to patients with at least one chronic disease. This means that we will have to change the Swedish health care system, which began during my predecessor Göran Hägglund's time. Nevertheless, he was a Christian Democratic party leader and actually took the issue very seriously. He appointed Göran Stiernstedt, who investigated the care. We have taken this forward during this term of office, precisely in order to ensure that we receive long-term health care that is both modern and close to the citizens and that responds to the growing needs. In parallel, we are training more people and providing resources to meet the increased needs. But I think you also know that the state accounts for a fraction of the resources in health care. The queue billion that Niklas Wykman is talking about, any county council could have introduced at any time. But it was condemned by the profession, SKL and many other representatives and authorities because it led to displacement effects and was not effective. Queues started to grow early in 2013.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-351	Madam President, I would like During the time that Annika Strandhäll has been the responsible minister, healthcare queues in Sweden have doubled. Annika Strandhäll believes that it is the county council's responsibility and that she has no responsibility for this. But it is through the laws, regulations and financial control systems that we adopt in the Riksdag, and as the government proposes, that the county councils are given the opportunity to operate. This has deteriorated significantly during Annika Strandhäll's time as responsible minister, and this is also why healthcare queues have doubled. Most of the health care queues in the county councils where Annika Strandhäll's party colleagues rule. For this Annika Strandhäll obviously has a responsibility that goes beyond just being a minister. It is a responsibility that rests on the whole of Social Democracy. Half a million people now have to wait in medical queues to get the care they need to feel good and be able to return to work. Annika Strandhäll says that busy names do not help. Annika Strandhäll herself has some suggestions with a good name, patient billions and so on. Our efforts are concrete. It is, among other things, 3 billion to shorten the queues. We also have a strong investment in cancer care. We do in our budget what can be done to prevent both cancer and queues. Annika Strandhäll instead puts enormous effort into campaigning against the county council that probably has the best healthcare in Sweden, namely Stockholm County Council. When we put forward proposals to counter queues and cure cancer, Annika Strandhäll calls instead a press conference, where she explains that in Stockholm it is necessary to change the county council. There she adds state resources to investigate healthcare, but not in the county councils that do not deliver healthcare.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-355	Madam President, I would like I have answered Niklas Wykman's questions and, frankly, I am not going to help bring the debate down to the level that Niklas Wykman wishes. To solve the challenges of healthcare, which is important for every single Swede, serious proposals and serious debate are required and, to quote Niklas Wykman's party leader, adults in the room. We can conclude that there are concerns in several county councils. As I said, the Västra Götaland region represents the largest increase in queues during this term of office. That is precisely because of the things I have highlighted in this debate. With regard to New Karolinska Solna, I am not alone in being upset about the fact that some 60 billion of taxpayers' money has been spent there. In addition, the new Karolinska Solna is not only a Stockholm issue, it is one of the hospitals in Sweden that has a national health care mission and will serve the whole country. It is therefore essential that Nya Karolinska Solna works. Above all, it is my responsibility as Minister and the responsibility of the Government to ensure that the breakdown we have seen there does not occur again. So we need to learn more about what has gone wrong. That's what I stand for. During this term of office, the Government has made major efforts to support county councils in increasing and improving accessibility. We have trained thousands of new employees who will strengthen health care. We have also given a clear commitment to a further 14 000 more health workers by 2022. We also put resources behind our promises and have said that we want to add at least 20 billion to the welfare of the next parliamentary term in order to meet the challenges that we see.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-359	Madam President, I would like Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked me what further efforts I and the government consider possible to counteract mental illness among children and young people. Although health in Sweden is generally good, it is not good for everyone, and mental illness is a major and growing social problem. There is a clear tendency for young people and young adults to be more depressed, more anxious, more difficult to sleep and more aching than before. Young people also consume more psychiatric care than before, both outpatient and hospital care. These are worrying signals, and the government has taken extensive steps to address this. I will explain some of the actions below. If we are to succeed in reducing mental ill health among children and young people, different efforts are needed towards different activities and target groups. These include promoting and preventive work with increased knowledge of mental illness among the actors who meet children and young people. It also requires access to equal, knowledge-based and safe care of good quality, such as first-line care available and high-quality specialised care – all at the same time. It is in this way that we turn things around and give every child or youth the support he or she needs. The Government allocated more than SEK 1 billion in 2017 for interventions in the area of mental health. The Government makes the assessment that there is a need for further efforts in mental health and has therefore strengthened the investment by SEK 500 million this year and intends to continue the work with SEK 1 billion per year during 2019 and 2020. The initiative is aimed at strengthening both first-line care and specialised psychiatry for children and adults. Although many suffer from mental illness, not everyone in need of specialised psychiatric care. The capacity and competence of primary care needs to be strengthened in the area of mental illness, and parts of the expanded initiative should therefore be used to develop first-line care for both children and adults. The spring 2017 amending budget added SEK 100 million for this year to strengthen child and youth psychiatry and first-line psychiatry for children and young people in primary care in county councils and regions. This effort will continue in 2018 – 2020. In this year's agreement between the Government and Swedish Municipalities and County Councils in the field of mental health, more than SEK 1.4 billion is allocated for efforts aimed at promoting mental health and combating mental ill health. Of these, SEK 250 million will be used for initiatives in county councils and municipalities aimed at strengthening children's and young people's mental health, and SEK 130 million will be used to strengthen youth clinics' work to meet children and young people with mental illness. It is also important that staff who meet children and young people in everyday life have the competence to pay attention to risk factors that can lead to mental illness. The Government has therefore commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to allocate SEK 100 million this year to the municipalities for, among other things, the development of skills for the staff in order to increase the conditions for attention to risk factors leading to mental illness. In 2016, the government adopted a new strategy in the area of mental health. The strategy covers the period 2016 – 2020 and aims to stimulate the development of prevention and promotion work in general as well as early interventions for those who are not well or at risk of developing mental illness. We will focus on creating the conditions for finding long-term solutions in regular structures where the state, county councils and municipalities take joint responsibility. Although we have had many good projects, it is above all long-term sustainable structures that are needed. An important part of creating a long-term perspective is also to have a good dialogue and consensus across block borders.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-368	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am very pleased that we can have this debate today. It is good that more people talk about mental illness. This has not least been said by Sweden's student organisations for several years. But in addition to just talking about mental illness, we need to talk about solutions to the problem. Policy should not just be a forum for discussion but a way to come up with effective reforms. Politics is to want and to do. Madam President, I would like Mental illness is a very broad concept. It includes, on the one hand, nervousness, depression and anxiety, which are natural reactions to things that happen in people's everyday lives. Such mental illness is not solved with specialised psychiatric care. Rather, it is about talking about it, sleeping at even times, eating at even times and exercising some day a week. On the other hand, it includes diagnoses such as depression, panic disorder, or bipolar disorder. Instead, treatment is required. It can be both conversation and medication. Now that I am doing this simplification, let us remember that it is just a simplification. There is a spectrum between these two. If you push down feelings that are everyday, you may end up in a condition that requires treatment. Madam President, I would like Mental ill-health is currently the big youth issue. That's, I'd say, no wonder. The National Board of Health and Welfare has looked at how mental illness has developed over the last ten years. Then you can see that it has increased by a little over 100 per cent in the group 10 – 17-year-olds. In the group of 18 to 27-year-olds, it has grown by approximately 70 per cent. This is about 190 000 children and young adults. The queues in child and youth psychiatry, BUP, are increasing. The number of children and young people who have waited more than 30 days for a BUP operation has more than tripled during this term of office alone. Overall, one in ten young people suffers from mental illness, and within just a couple of years it may be the main cause of sick leave. In addition – and this is important to beat phase t – the increase seems to last. New cases of illness will be prolonged and added to those already existing. Follow-ups also show that uncertainty is harmful when you go and wait to get an input. Madam President, I would like The Government explains in its interpellation response a number of budgetary efforts. It's good that the government opens the wallet. At the same time, however, we see that the queues for the BUP have tripled during the term of office. The government also abolished the health guarantee for young people with mental illness introduced by the Alliance following an agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council. The government also abolished queue billions. The National Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention still has too little funding. A reasonable follow-up question to the Government will therefore be whether the government's policy has really had the intended effect. Or if you want to be even clearer: Has government policy really brought us closer to a more sustainable situation in terms of mental illness in children and young people?
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-377	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jesper Skalberg Karlsson, for a very important interpellation! It is important from the point of view of children's and young people's mental health, which has more than doubled in the last ten years, and we see that the increase continues. But it's not just about children and young people. We see that mental illness is increasing, quite significantly, in all age groups and that today it is a major social problem in Sweden. This requires that we switch both parts of the healthcare system and our way of working to meet these children and young people much earlier than today. When it comes to responding in concrete terms to whether the government's efforts have achieved what they were intended for, one can well note that during the term of office we have more than doubled the funding for psychiatry. We have made special efforts at youth clinics and at developing first-line psychiatry. My answer is that I believe, in the long term, that it is absolutely right to do so, and I believe that it will be a very important part of the further development of policy in this area. What I do not, I think, mentioned in my answer is the initiative that the government has made during the term of office in student health, which is incredibly important. There we have added about 200 million more per year. And now, at the end of the term of office, we can see that another 700 people are employed in pupil health. One of the basic problems today – and then we don't really talk about prevention as about how we meet those who actually suffer from mental illness – is that the first line of psychiatry and those who are going to catch these children and young people have not been adequately equipped. There we have student health, which sees the children in a completely different way from other parts of the health care system. I think we need to come back with even more and better policies to equip pupil health to meet children and young people who are so much more mentally ill. This has not been equipped for. It is also about the fact that with this very rapid increase, the burden on the specialized child and youth psychiatry is very great. Children's and young people's psychiatry is also visited by children and young people who may not be there at all, because it is not really the right level of care for them. When I meet the county councils and representatives working in child and youth psychiatry, they also describe that they are very burdened with investigations regarding making diagnoses of children, such as adhd. We have a lot of schools in Sweden that, despite the fact that the law does not allow it, require you to have a diagnosis in order for extra support to be put in place. There is something I want to put the light on and that I take the opportunity to lift in all possible contexts. I think that the government has come some way in this parliamentary term. I'm absolutely not happy. More needs to be done. But what is right in the direction of our policy is precisely to equip the other parts of health care and pupil health, which can meet these children and young people early, before it has gone too far, to prevent it from getting worse. I think I'll stay there for a while.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-385	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I think it should be very interesting to see after this parliamentary term the evaluations made of the government's efforts in this particular area, because I think it is clear that we need to do more of what works. Madam President, I would like All children should have good opportunities to succeed. This is one of the most fundamental tasks of the welfare society. Every child of a new generation will have a chance to shape his own life and not just follow in his parents' footsteps. What you want, do and are judged after should not depend on the parents' name or class or address. Nor should it depend on gender or income or clan. The important thing, so to speak, is not where you come from, but where you are going. All children should be given good tools to realize their goals, their dreams and perhaps above all themselves. Madam President, I would like We can do more to counter mental illness among young people. I would like to go over three proposals in this regard. First of all, short waiting periods! The Moderates have proposed the reinstatement of the cue billion. It should also be broadened to include psychiatry. We then earmark half a billion to improve accessibility, and this applies both to first-line interventions and to child and youth psychiatry. We also want to introduce a reinforced care guarantee for children and young people with mental health problems. We want that because we know that waiting and uncertainty are very problematic. We want patients to get in touch with primary care on the same day, a medical assessment within 3 days and a visit to specialist care within 30 days. 0, 3 and 30 are the three digits you can hold in your head. Secondly, double the appropriations! Since 1980 the suicide rate has decreased for almost all groups, and that is very good. But there is a group where it has not, and that is the group 15 - 24-year-olds. In 2008, the Swedish Parliament adopted a national programme for suicide prevention, but the preventive work must continue with great vigour. Along with efforts to strengthen the first line, the Moderates want to double the funding of the National Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention of Mental Ill Health. Thirdly, review the school law! Children and young people spend a very large part of their time in school, at least most of them. It is around the school that the daily routines and the social network are built. That student health needs to complement primary care and BUP, I know – the Minister of Social Affairs knows that, as she well explained. Therefore, I think it's very good that the new school law from 2010 says that all students should have access to school nurse and school counselor during a certain number of visits during schooling. But a big mistake – and I admit this, which in itself was not in Parliament at the time – was that the law did not specify the extent to which the staff should be available. So you say it should exist, but you don't say how much and when. This should be looked at in a review. How can pupils gain better access to pupil health between the health visits provided for by law? Madam President, I would like If we make sure we have whole children and young people, we need to fix fewer broken adults. I really believe that there is more to be done to curb mental illness among children and young people, and I look forward to the government presenting even more proposals to tackle that problem. So that is the big question for young people in Sweden today, and it deserves to be addressed.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-392	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jesper, for your commitment to this issue and for helping to present concrete suggestions on what you would like to see more of! Nevertheless, I think that one must be very careful to say that, to some extent, it is unfortunately an over-reliance to believe in financial incentives to shorten waiting times, that is, that the existing staff should meet even more. When I meet representatives of the county councils, both politicians and officials working there, and the staff of child and youth psychiatry, it is very clear that it is essentially the issue of staff and access to staff in order to meet the rapidly increasing needs that are bottleneck. Above all, we have far too many people in line for child and youth psychiatry who should not really be in line for child and youth psychiatry, but should have been helped considerably earlier. It is simply the wrong level of care. This is why the government, in addition to the efforts to strengthen the economy for psychiatry in order to have the opportunity to hire more, has actually chosen to invest specifically in children's and young people's mental health, including by strengthening the work of youth clinics and increasing accessibility there and by strengthening pupil health. Today, there are 700 more people working in pupil health, compared to when this government took office. We have also provided extra funds for first-line psychiatry for children and young people in primary care. I think it is incredibly important that you can be met in more places than BUP, precisely so that they can focus on the cases that are absolutely the most difficult. This is one of our really big societal challenges. I am also responsible for the activity compensation, or early retirement, for young people between the ages of 19 and 29 who cannot work for various reasons. When this reform was introduced in 2003, eight out of ten activity benefits were granted due to physical disability. Today, eight out of ten people receive it because of some kind of psychiatric diagnosis that makes it impossible to participate fully in the labour market. About 50 per cent of these young people then move on to an ordinary early retirement pension. So this is in every way a hugely important area to both spend large resources on and find long-term solutions for. I therefore welcome the fact that, in this case, the interpeller also stresses the need for a broad dialogue across block borders and long-term agreements in order to have stable rules of play for how we face something that is actually one of Sweden's really big public health problems today. Public health is, of course, moving in the right direction in all other areas, except in terms of mental health.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-398	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. The Minister mentions two issues which are extremely large and which we will certainly not be able to deal with during this debate. One is why mental illness is increasing. We don't know that. Why are the 90s so unhappy? That can be considered, but I do not believe that there is only one answer. The second issue is, of course, that people end up at the wrong level of care. It will be a huge question now that more and more people are looking for care for less and less, and I think it will take years of investigation just to find out how to solve it. And if you're going to do it across the block line, it's gonna be even harder. Madam President, I would like Young people's mental illness is the big question for Sweden's young people. When I'm out in high school and high school it's this issue, closely followed by the climate and whether there will be housing when you graduate from high school, which are the n most important ones. A broad palette of solutions is needed, of course, where some are economics and some are laws, some are county councils and some are parliament and government. I would say that this is a task that all governments will have to take on and take seriously. This is a problem which requires but which above all deserves a long-term approach beyond the mandate and beyond the block-border. With this I would like to thank you for the debate and wish you a pleasant weekend!
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-403	Madam President, I would like Much has already been said in this debate, and the key issue is, of course, why it looks like this. There, Sweden, along with some other Western countries, differs greatly. It is indeed a question that we have been wrestling with in recent years and which has not one but many different answers. The question is, above all, how we meet the children and young people who are calling for help as early as possible so that you do not have to get so sick, as we today see many people becoming, so that you do not even get into the labour market at all. What start to life is that? I can conclude by saying that the government will also come back in the near future with more efforts based on the experience we have gained during this term of office and from what we see is most important to focus on in order to tackle the problem in the long term. Thank you for a good and very important debate!
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-407	Madam President, I would like Jeff Ahl has asked me whether I and the government believe that, in view of the large migration flows that reached Sweden in 2015, it is reasonable for Sweden to stop paying the EU contribution as compensation until those countries in the EU that did not comply with the Dublin Regulation withdraw all these migrants. It's supposed to cost you not to take on your responsibilities. The government is therefore pushing for conditionality in the EU budget – those who do not assume their responsibilities should not have access to EU funds in the same way as they do today. However, to stop, as Jeff Ahl writes, paying the Swedish contribution to the EU for the fact that other Member States have not received refugees is neither a reasonable, possible nor in any way desirable alternative. EU membership involves both rights and obligations, and paying an annual fee is an obligation that we safeguard and not a political lever. Sweden's membership of the EU brings enormous benefits to our society and our citizens. For an export-dependent country like Sweden, the importance of being part of the EU's internal market with more than 500 million consumers cannot be stressed enough. Being part of a political union in which we deal with common challenges and problems around the negotiating table rather than on the battlefields is invaluable. The government defends EU cooperation, our community of law and the common fundamental values of freedom, democracy, equality, the principles of the rule of law and human rights on which cooperation and membership rest. The EU is not a cooperation in which one can choose and choose from the rules and obligations that apply. Nor is it an ATM where you can collect money without obligation. In view of the negotiations on the next Multiannual Financial Framework for the period 2021 – 2027, Sweden has been a driving force for introducing opportunities for increased conditionality linked to EU support. Similarly, those countries that do not live up to the principles of the rule of law or assume their responsibilities in migration policy should not be able to access EU support in the same way as they do today. The cost of non-responsiveness drives Sweden consistently and clearly in the ongoing discussions on the principles of the rule of law, the asylum negotiations and the negotiation of the next Multiannual Financial Framework. On Wednesday, the Commission's proposal for the financial framework was presented, and I am pleased that there is now a proposal on conditionality on the table. The negotiations are now under way, and Sweden will continue to be a driving force on these issues.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-414	Madam President, I would like The new and strongly growing party Alternatives for Sweden requires that the government immediately stop paying the membership fee to the anti-democratic EU, where agreements have been broken down. Sve Rige is paying the EU 39 1⁄2 billion this year. What do we get for this fee? Because of the EU, Sweden today has wide-open borders where drugs, illegal weapons, criminals, terrorists, grant immigrants and organised beggar gangs can move freely. Before joining the EU, Sweden had a trade surplus vis-à-vis the other EU Member States, which has today turned into a strong trade deficit. Before Sweden joined the EU, we were able to conclude trade agreements ourselves. When we are in the European Union, we must conclude trade agreements with other countries after compromise with the other 27 Member States. Is this really beneficial for an export-dependent country like Sweden? I don't think so. Sweden was a fully functioning export nation before we joined the EU and can become so again, outside the EU. The EU is the biggest project of globalists. It is intended to take freedom and democracy from former free peoples and transfer it to foreign bureaucrats. After the Swedish people had voted a resounding 'no' to EMU, our ill leaf politicians decided to deny the Swedish people ever again the right to decide by referendum on important EU issues. For example, the Swedish people were denied the opportunity to vote on the Treaty of Lisbon, despite the extensive transfer of power from the Swedish people to the EU bureaucracy that this meant. Madam President, I would like The only party in Sweden that wants to stop paying the EU fee is Alternative for Sweden. We want to stop paying the EU levy, because several EU Member States have violated various rules and agreements within the EU. France and Germany, for example, violated the Stability Pact in 2003. Several EU Member States violated the Dublin Regulation during the mass migration wave in 2015, which meant that over 160 000 immigrants made their way to Sweden, although they should never have come here. These billions that this costs consider Alternatives for Sweden need to be put into the holes that current and previous governments have torn up into Swedish welfare and to carry out a mass return of immigrants who have come here to Sweden to live on subsidies or to commit crimes. I understand from the Minister's reply that the government will continue to pay the current EU levy. However, given that the EU is threatening to raise Sweden's contribution by EUR 15 billion, I would like to know whether the EU Minister and the government will at least not agree to a fee increase of one cent. Can the Swedish people get such a promise from this government?
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-423	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by responding to some of Jeff Ahls' truly hair-raising claims regarding the possibility of making a profit from EU membership. The exports on which Sweden is fully dependent go largely to the EU's internal market. When we entered the EU, we had 50% of our exports to countries outside the EU. Now we have 70% for countries in the EU. It has been extremely successful for Sweden to be part of the EU and the internal market. Today, about half of our GDP is matched by our exports, and 1.4 million people have a job to go to because of exports. The internal market in the EU has made this incredibly easier. In addition, as far as trade agreements are concerned, Sweden has been able to participate in the EU's very successful trade negotiations, as the EU provides access to a market of 500 million people, compared with Sweden, which has access to a market of 10 million people, so the argument put forward by Jeff Ahl here is totally unacceptable. With regard to the Swedish EU contribution, the government has been very clear about the importance of keeping the Swedish EU contribution down, mainly by reducing the size of the budget but also by safeguarding the share we will pay ourselves. The Commission's proposal to increase the EU budget to 1.14% of the EU budget and to phase out discounts represents an unacceptable increase in the Swedish EU levy. According to our preliminary estimates, the Commission's proposal would mean an increase of the levy by an average of 35% per year. We think this is a disproportionately large proportion for Sweden. However, we are safeguarding EU cooperation and, of course, we must continue to accept our responsibilities and be net contributors, but it is neither reasonable nor fair to have Member States compensate so heavily for the loss that the UK's non-contribution entails. For the government, it goes without saying that the burden of financing common expenditure must be shared fairly between the Member States. When the UK leaves the EU, a large net contributor disappears and the discounts on charges directly linked to the UK rebate cease. This is what has consequences for the Swedish EU levy. The government has been and will continue to be a strong driving force for the fundamental principle of fair distribution and for the financial burden to be maintained in the next financial framework. The negotiations are beginning now and will be very difficult. It will be a major challenge to achieve a result that means that we should pay no more in relative terms than we do today. But we will work purposefully to ensure that this is the case.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-433	Madam President, I would like It is clear that the government will agree to an increase in fees, because the Minister is clearly hovering on the objective of the question I asked. Politics is about putting groups against groups. The present socialist government and former bourgeois governments have clarified their priorities. EU bureaucrats and immigrants come first and the Swedes ultimately. The new strongly growing party Alternatives for Sweden will prioritise exactly the opposite. We will always prioritise the Swedes first. The Prime Minister said in an interview with Report that Sweden cannot possibly pay more in the EU fee, because that means that Sweden must save on welfare. The Prime Minister thus admits that the EU levy drains billions from the welfare of Swedes, which was clear that he happened to do by mistake, because, as so often before, he tried to fumble away what he just happened to admit. The former Swedish Prime Minister and Social Democrat Per Albin Hansson's winged words Sweden for the Swedes and the Swedes for Sweden have been turned to Sweden by today's Swedish Social Democracy for everyone, nothing for the Swedes, for that is the truth. You are putting several sums of the Swedish people's paid taxes on mass immigration and overpaid anti-democratic EU bureaucrats. I shall quote the statement by the former President of the European Parliament, Mr Schulz, after Mrs Brexit: 'The British have restated the Rules'. It is not the EU philos o phy that the crowd can decide its fate. In English: The British have broken the rules. It is not the philosophy of the European Union that the mob can decide its own fate. This statement ossifies of popular contempt and contempt for democracy. These forces therefore want the government to continue to feed the Swedish money. The lies about what happens if you leave or stand outside the EU are ridiculous. Switzerland is doing a lot of good outside the EU and the UK will do the same. I ask you all at home to recall the doomsday prophecies that the European lobbyists painted if the British were to vote for Brexit. There would indeed be war in Europe, and the British economy would crash shortly after the referendum. Has any of these threats occurred? No, the answer is that Britain remains strong and that no war has started in Europe. Alternatives for Sweden mean that we, like the British, should break free. A first step is to stop paying the EU fee that Sweden is paying, despite all the breach of contract by its members. If I buy a service from a company and the company fails to deliver the service correctly, I will stop paying for the service. This simple logic does not seem to any Swedish party understand except Alternatives for Sweden. As far as the trade issue is concerned, we shall have a small education here. I have with me figures from the SCB showing how trade has gone from a surplus to a severe deficit. The fact that 70% of our trade is now inside the EU is because Sweden cannot conclude its own trade agreements with other countries, which gives us a limited opportunity to export our goods and services. We are forced to compromise with a lot of other countries, which destroys our foreign trade with the rest of the world.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-441	Madam President, I would like It is really sad to hear Jeff Ahl, who does not represent any party in Parliament. The party he mentions has no seats in the Riksdag. Politics is not about putting groups against groups but about finding a society where all groups who have the right to be in Sweden have the opportunity to live a good life. We get such a good life by investing in trade, exports and welfare and by sharing the growth that Sweden gets in a fair way. Sweden is totally dependent on its exports. However, one cannot look at just trade deficits and trade surpluses. It's an old-fashioned way of looking at it. I do not think that Jeff Ahl knows how modern trade policy works, that it is about global value chains and that 30% of everything we export consists of what we have imported. Therefore, it is no longer relevant to talk about trade surpluses and trade deficits. Jeff Ahl does it because he's stuck in an old view of trade policy. The government is firmly committed in its decision that Sweden should continue to be an active member of the EU. We will also continue to pay the membership fee to the EU, but we do not want to pay an increase to the extent now proposed by the European Commission.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-445	Madam President, I would like What the EU and its bureaucrats have understood is that you can push the Member States of the EU to anything, because the Member States will agree to anything at the end of the day. This will also be the case with the increase in fees. Sweden will agree to the estimated fee increase of SEK 15 billion, and it may even be that Sweden agrees to an even larger fee increase. It is perfectly reasonable in terms of how the EU issue has been dealt with before. Politics is about putting groups against groups. This government is refusing health insurance for seriously ill Swedes. This government has made it difficult for our poor pensioners. This government is behind an agreement that illegal immigrants receive dental care for 50 crowns while our pensioners pay thousands of crowns for the same kind of care. It is clear that the money we send to the EU is crucial to how good Swedish welfare will be for the Swedes. The Prime Minister himself has acknowledged this, by mistake, in an interview in Report. Everything else is fiction. This government, bourgeois politicians and the rest of you may well continue with your priorities and worsen for ordinary Swedes. Today, there is an alternative that is entering the Riksdag, Alternatives for Sweden. The day we gain power and influence, we will radically change our attitude towards Europe. We will not let ourselves be run over again and again, as this government and previous government have allowed themselves to be. Let me conclude with some further training for the Minister and the rest of Sweden. The lower picture shows the Europe we voted for, and each circle corresponds to a political area and how much influence the EU had. The upper picture shows how it has developed. There have been many new areas of decision-making, and the power of decision-making in the EU is increasing. Soon Sweden and the Swedes will decide nothing themselves, but foreign bureaucrats in the EU will decide everything.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-450	Madam President, I would like When I was younger, there was a TV show called Kurt Olsson's television. There was a person who didn't know anything and who constantly showed up paper and pointed to a lot of squares, ticks and rings and said: So here's the world! It was completely unreal. It is Kurt Olsson I am thinking of when I see Jeff Ahl pointing to his rings and balls and saying that he knows better about trade policy than the Minister for Trade does. As far as welfare is concerned, the government has invested enormous money in it. The Social Democrats are presenting the greatest security programme in modern times. This means, among other things, that we remove the so-called pensioner tax, which the bourgeois introduced with the support of the Swedish Democrats. The Swedish Democrats were Jeff Ahls's previous party. But they are not far-right enough for Jeff Ahl to remain there, but he goes further away in the swamps of extremism. We want a society for everyone. We want a society where pensioners, families with children and everyone who has the right to be in the country should feel good. I will continue to fight for that, and it is a pity that Jeff Ahl is not part of it.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-454	Madam President, I would like Carl Schlyter has asked me whether I intend to withdraw the government proposal 2017/ 18:60 in the light of the European Court of Justice's preliminary ruling in Case C-284/ 16 Slovakia v Achmea – I apologise if I pronounce it wrong – once again see whether CETA is compatible with EU law. Carl Schlyter has also asked whether, in the meantime, I intend to take any initiative to interrupt the ratification process in order to support Frank's initiative to include a climate veto in the CETA agreement so that nothing in the agreement hinders climate change. First of all, let me remind you that on 22 March 2018, the Riksdag approved the Government's proposal in the Bill 2017/ 18:60 and thus approved both the Free Trade Agreement with Canada, CETA, and the Strategic Partnership Agreement with Canada, SPA. The bill states that the Government will monitor the impact and impact of the agreement in terms of the parties' ability to set higher environmental requirements than today and be able to raise the level of ambition in climate policy. In the preliminary ruling by the Court of Justice of the European Union, Carl Schlyter refers to the answer to questions concerning a bilateral investment protection agreement concluded in 1991 between the Netherlands and the former Czechoslovakia. In 1993, Slovakia took over the rights and obligations of Chec Koslovakia under the Agreement. In the ruling, the Court of Justice of the European Union has found that a certain arbitration clause in the agreement is contrary to the EU Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I would like to point out that the European Court of Justice has only taken a position on the arbitration clause in the case in question in the preliminary ruling. The decision therefore does not affect the validity of the CETA free trade agreement, which, in terms of its scope and design, is significantly different from the bilateral investment protection agreement mell an Netherlands and Slovakia. The preliminary ruling concerns an agreement within the EU between two individual Member States, while CETA is an agreement relating to trade outside the EU and where the EU and all Member States on the one hand and Canada on the other hand are contracting parties. CETA is one of the EU's most modern free trade agreements, and so the EU as its Member States are together with Canada parties to the agreement. It is important to stress that the CETA agreement contains a completely different dispute settlement mechanism from that adopted by the European Court of Justice in its preliminary ruling. I therefore see no reason to work for the government to call for proposal 2017/ 18:60 which the Riksdag has b ehandled. That's not really possible either, but we call it a recall. In that case, the government must present a new bill. I also see no reason to interrupt Sweden's process of ratifying the CETA agreement. The fact that Sweden is moving forward and ratificer is CETA sends an important signal both about the importance of the relationship with Canada and about the importance of the EU's free trade agreement with third countries for trade and prosperity in Sweden.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-461	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Linde, for your answer. It was, in fact, a clear answer, but I am not satisfied with it. I have a couple of objections. Then, regarding the timing of the question, I would like to say that I left it right after the verdict but that it got stuck in some dark swamp in a parliamentary computer somewhere. That's why you didn't get the question until after the vote in Parliament. However, it is still up-to-date and important. I am concerned about two things, on the one hand, that this is contrary to European legislation and, on the other hand, that we cannot be a driving force in climate and environmental work as before. If we take the last question first, it does not help that Sweden analyses how things go afterwards because we lose influence over how the arbitrators are appointed and how the interpretation should be done. Moreover, investment protection is a major problem, because it is valid for 20 years after the termination of the contract. Although our evaluation would show that we cannot do as we intended with our environmental policy, we are therefore still responsible for 20 years afterwards. I would therefore like us to make a clear analysis and, together with France and other countries, to ensure that it cannot be possible for us to have a regulative of the cooling effect or delay in legislation, which both the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate address as potential problems in their referrals to the National Board of Trade. The other part is a little more complicated. It cannot be said that there are different agreements and that the Court's reasoning therefore does not apply. Harm Schepel, who runs European Law Blog, says that the problem is the interpretation. Although the EU law is intact, this law is interpreted. The external party intervenes and influences the interpretation, challenging the autonomy of EU legislation. Lauren Ankersmit, who runs the news site on international trade agreements, has come up with the same problem. Commercial disputes are one thing, but when it comes to investment disputes it is the same problem. It is about the problem of interpretation – who should interpret internal EU law. The courts have to make decisions. They have criticised something that a country has done, and then there is an indirect problem with the interpretation of EU law. Dr Szilárd Gáspár-Szilágyi-Szilágyi in Oslo says exactly the same thing: that you go in and poke into this. And Daniel Thym has a long line of arguments in the same style that I do not have time to address. We also have two professors from Sweden – Christina Ecke at the University of Amsterdam and Marja-Marja-Liisa Öberg at EU law in Örebro – who sent a letter to all members of Parliament who raised the issue of how the opinion affects how EU legislation can be interpreted. A wide range of legal professors and, among other things, the German Association of Judges are concerned that this may be contrary to EU law. Why not ensure that it does not do so by waiting for the European Court of Justice's ongoing interpretative communication, which has been requested by the Belgian authorities? It would be wise for Sweden to wait. It is difficult to do the right thing when we have done the wrong thing because we are locked into it, and there is no cow on the ice because there are other countries that have not yet ratified. Then we should use the time to ensure that we can protect environmental and public health interests and ensure that the legislation is compatible with EU law.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-470	Madam President, I would like The government has thoroughly investigated the matter and concluded that there is no basis for the concerns expressed in Belgium's request. The judgment in the Achmea case does not alter that assessment. This is because the situation regarding the investment protection agreement between EU countries and CETA – ICS, i.e. the new court procedure – differs in several ways, but above all on a crucial point. In the Achmea case, the European Court of Justice found that the Slovak-Dutch Investment Protection Agreement meant that an arbitration tribunal under the agreement would interpret and apply EU law in a way that was not compatible with Union law. However, CETA states that a tribunal under this agreement shall not have jurisdiction to interpret EU law. It is further stated that the CETA tribunal is obliged to comply with the current interpretation of EU law. Investor protection has been the most controversial issue in the debate on free trade agreements such as CETA and on the previously discussed TTIP. Sweden has pushed for reform of investor protection and for a transparent, legally secure and credible system. This was absolutely necessary. I thank Carl Schlyter, who was one of those who lay on to bring about this change. CETA means that we have a better system now than we had before to resolve investment disputes. The government therefore believes that there is no basis for delaying ratification. One might wonder why Sweden is not doing the same as the Netherlands in this case. The government and parliament of each EU Member State decide on ratification for the individual country, and the direct or indirect motives that the Netherlands has are not the same as in other countries. I note that the Netherlands Government points out that the preliminary ruling on Slovakia and Achmea does not directly concern agreements with third countries, as is the case with CETA, and that the Dutch Government's own assessment is that the CETA dispute settlement mechanism cannot produce binding interpretations of EU law.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-476	Madam President, I would like Now I'm a little insecure. You mean Belgium or the Netherlands?
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-477	Good! I'm glad the Trade Minister got specific now. Daniel Thym, professor of European law at the University of Konstanz, addresses precisely that objection. The agreement states that only international law and the CETA agreement are to be interpreted, not internal EU law. What he claims is that the interpretation of EU law will be indirectly affected in order for decisions to be given, and thus it will be exactly the same problem that the Court raised in the Achmea case. His second objection is that Achmea is about access to services in the internal market, and the interpretation of how this access is to be done is also an indirect influence of the interpretation of EU law. This is exactly the same problem as in the Achmea case. The third is that, as the Minister for Trade says, the aim is not for the CETA tribunal to influence or interpret EU legislation. However, it is also not authorised to send things to the European Court of Justice for a preliminary ruling, and therefore it cannot ensure that this is what it does when it makes its decisions. Therefore, it cannot explicitly or deliberately influence the interpretation of EU law, but it will do so indirectly. The fourth objection he has is that a court from the General Court does not become a case between two states, as in the classic interpretation of the WTO, but the decisions become directly binding. They are to be implemented by national courts, but they have no possibility of affecting the decision of the General Court and are thus locked by the interpretation of the General Court. On all points, the exact same problem that the European Court of Justice had with Achmea, namely that the interpretation of EU law is affected and that the European judicial system does not have the sovereignty and autonomy that it should have. All the problems and basic reasoning behind the Achmea judgment remain, and that is what I am concerned about and which is a serious problem. The second part of the argument remains, although the Minister for Trade believes that there is no risk of regulatory cooling or that we are prevented from implementing environmental decisions. It is in the agreement – that we should not be hindered. The idea is not that we should be prevented but that we should have freedom, but at the same time – if we want to make progressive environmental legislation – this must be so to speak legitimate. That's the word that's used. It must therefore be justified in view of the CETA agreement. If not even the UK – which in itself is leaving the EU now – does not have enough commercial lawyers, I wonder whether Sorsele Municipality or Åmål has enough experienced commercial lawyers to ensure that the decisions they make about non-toxic preschools and so on are in fact fully in line with the CETA agreement. The regulatory cooling effect will thus come. Although this was not the intention of the CETA agreement, it will frighten authorities in Sweden and other EU countries from daring to take good environmental decisions. So the problem remains.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-484	Madam President, I would like As I said earlier, this preliminary ruling in Achmea does not change the government's view or analysis of the agreement. First of all, this concerns the bilateral investment protection agreement, which is between two EU countries. I repeat that this is within the EU. And CETA does not apply within the EU, but it applies between the EU and a non-EU country. In addition, the European Court of Justice has taken a position in the preliminary ruling only on the relevant arbitration clause and not on the whole bilateral agreement. Therefore, the decision in the case does not affect the validity of the Free Trade Agreement between the EU, its Member States and Canada. The CETA agreement differs significantly from the bilateral investment protection agreement between the Netherlands and Slovakia. Carl Schlyter need not be concerned that we have missed this preliminary ruling and that we have not analysed it. We are following this very closely and analysing it very carefully. But we come to a different conclusion than Carl Schlyter. Perhaps a lot of people are watching and listening to this. Therefore, I shall say that CETA is a very modern and good agreement, and I stick to it. In fact, it was a clear majority of this House that approved the proposal put forward by the government. Only 24 Members did not vote in favour of the bill. Then I would like to emphasise once again that it is a completely different dispute settlement mechanism from that which the European Court of Justice ruled on in its preliminary ruling. There is therefore no reason, as proposed by Carl Schlyter, to suspend the process of ratifying the CETA agreement because of the decision. With regard to what Carl Schlyter raised, if Belgium's request to the Court of Justice of the European Union for the new dispute settlement mechanism is settled, the government has also thoroughly investigated this issue and concluded that there is no concern about what is expressed in Belgium's request to the European Court of Justice. The government and parliament of each EU Member State decide whether or not to change their ratification process. And we've come to the conclusion that we don't want to do it.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-491	Madam President, I would like I was initially glad that I got an answer. But now I am not quite as happy anymore, because I think that the Minister for Trade repeats a little bit. I have acknowledged that there are differences between the CETA agreement and the agreement concluded by the Court of Justice. At the same time, however, I have proved that the issue raised by the Court in its ruling is just applicable to the CETA agreement as well. It does not matter whether it is an agreement with a third country or not. The general problems of power that the European Court of Justice regards as very important are still there. It does not help, therefore, to repeat this. I do not really know how to explain this further than that Sweden has an obligation under Article 351 of the Treaty to apply and ensure that EU law is implemented. Countries have an obligation to ensure that the agreements they sign do not violate EU law. Sweden should then, for safety's sake – it costs nothing at all – wait for ratification. For it is not that this government is pursuing the policy of the old alliance government that they said was cheerleaders for transatlantic agreements in Europe? I hope we have a different attitude; we will see. The problem remains that these agreements will be very difficult to continue to have progressive and advanced environmental legislation, as there are so many problems of interpretation. The National Board of Trade's own investigation shows that there are interpretation problems. And the worst is if we are not satisfied with an agreement being interpreted contrary to what Ann Linde and I want. Then Sweden will no longer have the power. It has been transferred from Sweden. That is why we cannot correct this afterwards. That is why it is important that we listen to all the environmental movements in Europe and to all the judges – 15 000 judges and legal experts – who agree with me. So it is not Carl Schlyter who has a problem with this. There is a wide range of organisations and judges who have the same problems.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-494	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Carl Schlyter for bringing this up again. It makes us stand on our toes. I feel even more confident that CETA does not prevent us from pursuing a progressive policy, because we have investigated this incredibly much. It is thanks, among other things, to Carl Schlyter and the Green Party that we have done so. I would therefore like to say a little bit about why I think this is such a good agreement in terms of climate and environmental work. CETA emphasises the importance of multilateral environmental agreements – as stated in the agreement – and the importance of mutual support for trade and environmental policies, and the need to have rules and measures that support both environmental policy and trade policy. It also states that the Contracting Parties are obliged to ensure that their environmental legislation is not infringed in order to promote trade or investment. This is in fact black and white in the agreement. We will be at the forefront of important policy areas such as climate change. CETA won't stop it. Rather, I think it will be a positive force. The agreement also stresses the parties' right to regulate and the right to increase protection in these areas. The EU and Canada have agreed on this from the outset. It was not the EU that was just pushing it, but Canada thought so too. In addition, the Government will monitor the impact of the agreement on the possibility of higher environmental standards in this regard. In these times when the winds of protectionism are blowing harder than in a long time, it is important that Sweden and the EU conclude this progressive and modern agreement with Canada. Sweden needs more free trade and not less.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-501	Madam President, I would like Boriana Åberg has asked me what initiatives I am prepared to take in order for the responsible authorities to have clear requirements to facilitate the establishment of barge traffic, for the appointment of a barge transport coordinator and for the establishment of an action plan and an objective for the development of barge traffic. It is true that Boriana Åberg writes that inland navigation in Germany and the Netherlands, for example, is usually carried out by barges. That's why we're talking about barge traffic. However, whether it is a barge or another type of ship that a shipowner wishes to certify for inland navigation, the rules of inland navigation, i.e. the EU acquis, which consists of some twenty directives and regulations, apply. Some time after Sweden implemented the basic EU framework for inland waterway transport in December 2014, the Swedish Maritime Administration was tasked, among other things, with addressing the development potential of inland shipping and coastal islands. The proposed measures included the introduction of an eco-bonus system and the classification of several so-called inland waterways. In the 2018 budget bill, the government proposed the introduction of an eco-bonus system, and we are currently preparing a support regulation. In addition, the Swedish Transport Agency has been given the task of explaining at the end of 2018 which additional water areas could be classified as inland waterways, where inland waterways can be operated. We agree on the importance of shipping for sustainability, congestion and safety, whether in inland navigation, coastal shipping or short sea shipping. The government has already taken several initiatives to make more effective use of maritime capacity. It is also one of the key issues in the government's forthcoming good strategy. One of all the preparation documents for the strategy is the Swedish Maritime Administration's report. Our ambition is to initiate more measures to promote the transfer of transport from road to sea.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-505	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Unfortunately, I cannot interpret this answer in any other way than that the government has no concrete plans to facilitate the establishment of barge traffic. I find that regrettable. The answer also shows that the government sees no difference between barge traffic and other shipping. However, there are differences, and these very differences need to be taken into account when drawing up policy documents, regulatory letters and so on. Conurbation transport in Europe is an important tool for logistics in urban regions, especially as they are flexible and do not need full port infrastructure – there are enough berths. The minister has probably once walked on the quays along the Seine River in Paris. Then it is good to know that these quays are used at night as terminals where you load and unload goods. Why can't we do that in Stockholm, for example? Because knowledge is lacking. I am not sure that so many people know what barge traffic means, whether among the citizens, with the authorities or with politicians. One example of this lack of knowledge is the construction of quays over the last 50 years. The remaining quays in cities by water must be protected; they will be needed for future shipping. Within Europe, barge traffic is used as a factor for the creation of a more sustainable transport system. In many cities, including London, there is a requirement for construction materials to be transported by inland waterways or for a certain percentage of cargo flows to and from large container ports to be carried out by barges. Why can't we have something like this in Sweden? Because there is no initiative from the highest political leadership, that is, the government. It's urgent. Transport is on the increase, and we need new roads to ensure that transport is smooth and efficient and without burdening our already burdened roads and railways. The introduction of barge traffic into the transport system is a solution within reach. The Minister mentioned in his response the implementation of the basic EU inland navigation acquis in 2014. But what has happened in these nearly four years? Has inland navigation increased? Has it achieved the potential on our waterways? No, I'm afraid not. There are still far too many obstacles. Among other things, Sweden has only implemented the EU's technical regulations. The remaining regulations are the issue of pilotage, the manning of barges and, not least, the rules on cabotage. I believe that these barges will initially be flagged with a different flag than the Swedish one, because they will be rented from Holland, for example.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-515	Madam President, I would like Firstly, Mr Åberg's view that barge traffic would be a particular traffic law is factually incorrect; that is not the case. Germany, Holland and other European countries also have to deal with the existing EU acquis, which means that we are talking about inland navigation and nothing else. Then you may have local regulations, but everyone has a common regulatory framework. That is why we in Sweden call this inland navigation. Secondly, there is certainly a development of this type of traffic. For example, I appreciate the fact that here in Stockholm, in the construction of Slussen, waterways are used, instead of truck transport, for construction materials. It is in this way that we shall develop the various possibilities for applying maritime transport. On the other hand, I am really worried when I hear Boriana Åberg talk about this being cabotage with international shipping companies operating on Swedish waterways. From the government's side, we are currently regulating the mess that has been found on our land roads, with foreign hauliers who are unable to comply with driving and rest time regulations or Swedish conduct orders and who are subjecting Swedish haulage industry to significant unsyst competition. Here the government goes forward quite clearly by regulating so that there should be order on the roads. There should be fair conditions of competition, so that we do not get what we have experienced with Romanian lorry drivers who live monthly in the cabins and live in appalling conditions to dumped wages. I do not intend to contribute to such a system. As far as shipping as a whole is concerned, there is no doubt that we have taken more steps during this parliamentary term than we have ever done. This is also confirmed by maritime operators. This is where we have sorted out the issue of tonnage tax. This is where the flag is rising. I am concerned when I hear a moderate representative talk about the fact that there should be more flagged-out transport. I think we should fight to increase the flag in Sweden and ensure that we have more Swedish shipping companies and more Swedish-manned ships. At the moment this is possible; the Swedish merchant fleet is being strengthened thanks to the fact that we changed the tonnage tax. With the eco-bonus system et, the survey on inland waterways, a national plan that will contain more shipping efforts than any national plan has done in the past and a good strategy that highlights shipping more than before – these will be presented in a few weeks' time – I feel confident that shipping has its future in Sweden. That, of course, includes inland navigation. If you want to run it in the form of barges or other ships, I have no worries about that. But it should be done with fair conditions, and it should be a good regulatory framework. We're going to develop the inland waterways. I look forward to the Swedish Maritime Administration's preparation, which looks at ways to develop more inland waterways. This is an important part of Sweden. I note that it is now that we have a social democratic government instead of an alliance government that did not care about shipping.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-524	Madam President, I would like I am really worried when the Minister confuses legal cabotage with illegal lorry traffic, which is being carried out in the wrong way and which both we and the government are very much against. However, by reducing police density, the government has made it possible to carry out illegal lorry transports in principle without risk. There's no traffic police on the roads. In his reply, the Minister mentioned the introduction of an eco-bonus system. We think this is a step in the right direction, but the system is far from perfect. It is about SEK 50 million per year to be distributed among coastal, short sea and inland waterway sectors. Apart from the fact that there is too little money, there is uncertainty as to which applications should be prioritised and how the money should be distributed. While the government gives with one hand, you take twice as much with the other. Fairway charges have been increased by 200 million in two years. The Swedish Maritime Administration has announced that new increases cannot be excluded in the years up to 2020. All the consultation bodies have been opposed to this increase, which is really counterproductive of the intention to transfer goods from land roads to waterways. This increase in inland navigation is particularly hard hit. It is directly counterproductive for the establishment of barge traffic. It is not easy for a new mode of transport to compete with the truck to attract customers with higher prices. Most people would say it's impossible. Does the Minister have any plans, for example, to exempt or reduce the fees for barge traffic, at least in the start-up phase? Then there are the pilotage fees. A physical pilot present on board any barge vessel operating on a specific loop is not necessary. Lotspenser are extremely expensive to apply for. The barge traffic only operates in Swedish water areas inside the country where they walk in fixed loops like rail or truck transport. These ships have high-tech equipment, and the barges themselves are safer and more manoeuvrable than other ships, especially because they are lower and have a larger surface area in the water. Is piloting really necessary? Port charges are also not adapted to barge traffic. As things stand, this kind of traffic, which is new to our waters, cannot get its nose above water because of all the charges. A holistic approach is needed to solve the transfer of goods from land to water. There is a great deal of knowledge in Europe, and the authorities responsible should benefit from it. Other EU countries have built up special units that work precisely with the transfer of goods from land to sea.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-529	Madam President, I would like I have initially presented and can say once again that we will increase the importance of shipping in Sweden. A central part of the government's strategy, whether we are talking about freight or the national plan, is about strengthening Swedish shipping. And right now Swedish shipping is being strengthened. Flagging's increasing. There are more who use shipping. I will find more proposals in good dialogue with maritime operators to strengthen Swedish shipping, because it is important from a climate point of view and when it comes to increasing capacity for freight transport. When I hear Boriana Åberg talking about all the proposals that could be implemented, I cannot help thinking about what Boriana Åberg or other Moderates did during the last parliamentary term. You then had government power, and we saw that the flagging increased and the competitiveness of shipping decreased. At the time, there was no eco-bonus that you now have views on at the level of detail. You didn't make any suggestions. You made an emergency rescue mission to clear the Swedish Maritime Administration's finances by providing money but were unable to take responsibility for the fundamental structural issues relating to the financing of Swedish shipping. I note that you did not take a holistic approach to port charges, and you did not even touch on the development of ports. This government is taking a holistic approach. We have invited all the ports in the country – for the first time, a government is doing so – allowing ports to be a central part of the development of a strategy in which the entire freight system holds together – from 74-tonne trucks on BK4 roads by rail and then out to our ports and to developed shipping – preferably digitised with new technology. This is how we develop Swedish shipping. I also note that in the proposals she makes, Boriana Åberg mentions tax reductions, tariff reductions and exemptions for fees. It is now that most listeners understand why large budget deficits have ended every time we have had a bourgeois government. When we took over government power this parliamentary term, it was 60 billion in budget deficits because you spent most of your time reducing taxes but not looking at investments that build Sweden strong or even keeping track of the costs that developed in society. If sustainable transport is to be developed, it must be able to invest and distribute the costs of the investments. I feel full confidence in the discussions we have with the transport industry on how this cost allocation can also look in the future. We must have good conditions of competition. That's right. We must be able to have sustainable tariffs that can withstand international competitive pressure. That's right, too. But we must also ensure that there is order on the roads. I would like to conclude by saying that I am concerned when Boriana Åberg once again begins to talk about and involve cabotage in domestic shipping. The mess we have had on Sweden's roads as a result of the inability to regulate cabotage transport during the bourgeois government years has led to Swedish haulage industry having a rather tough development with truck transport that takes place with poorly trained drivers and poorly equipped vehicles that have not even been forced to have winter tires under the law, despite the mess they cause on Swedish roads. Now we're acting against it. 400 police officers are now trained in cabotage controls. We make sure to enforce requirements for winter tyres on Swedish roads, because foreign vehicles will need to have that in the future. We increase the possibility of squeezing, which is a tool that did not even exist during the time when we had a bourgeois government. Now we can soon lock up the tyres up to 36 hours if you do not comply with driving and rest rules, and we increase the penalty fees. We create order and work together with the industry's actors. The Moderates think, as usual, that the market will have to resolve if we reduce taxes and charges. Then you don't take responsibility for the development. We take responsibility.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-536	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I must say that I appreciate the Minister's cooperation with maritime operators, but the Minister must also listen to these actors. Then I would like to say that I do not appreciate at all that the Minister keeps moving the issue to trucks and lorries. I am thinking of everyone who is listening to us now and who wants to start with barge traffic. They may have the impression that the Minister is not up to date in this area. Nor do I appreciate the Minister making such a story as he does when he says that the bourgeois government basically abused shipping. It wasn't like that. Among other things, it initiated and almost launched the maritime strategy. The minister's predecessor only presented the finished product. Let's stick to the truth. I would also like to say that not everything that the Minister is doing is wrong. It is good to do things to facilitate inland navigation. I hope the same thing will happen for barge traffic. But it's even better if the right things are done. This is like carrying a piano to the fifth floor of a house without an elevator – it is not enough just to get to the right floor, but the staircase must also be right. We need barge traffic, and barge traffic is a way to optimise the transport system and transport flows in urban and regional logistics and to give business more opportunities to create sustainable transport systems. Transport, growth and competitiveness are interrelated, and barge traffic is a tool with many winners in all parts of society. The government should work for this.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-541	Madam President, I would like I appreciate Boriana Åberg's commitment, and I appreciate that there is a broad commitment to investments in shipping. I note that things are also taking place during this parliamentary term. Several of the things that Boriana Åberg is asking for are things that we have either implemented, plan to implement or prepare in the Government Office. In the near future, we will present both a national plan and a good strategy – in fact the first good strategy n in Sweden's history as far as I know. It is a good thing that we are taking a concerted approach to freight transport. Should shipping become more important, it also wants all buyers of freight transport to understand what the structures look like in Sweden and that operators between the different modes of transport interact instead of competing. Historically, there has sometimes been a competitive relationship between the different modes of transport. I choose not to see it that way. Those who buy freight transport in the future care less about the type of transport they have – they want to know that transport comes out, that they can cope with climate change rules, that they are effective and that they can cope with international competitive pressure and have reasonable charges. It is therefore important that we increase the interaction between the different actors, and therefore a good strategy is needed. It now delivers the government in well-functioning collaboration with the various actors. Of course, I think there will be broad support for the proposal that we are presenting. I will also answer why I am talking about lorries. It wasn't really meant to be, but when Boriana Åberg chooses to lift the parallel to cabotage, I get a little worried. I certainly do not hope that we will see such a development in Swedish shipping. I want order on Swedish roads. I want flagged Swedish ships on Swedish waterways. We will strengthen Swedish shipping. It is the best way to manage good transport in the future.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-545	Madam President, I would like Pål Jonson has asked me three questions about road safety on the E18. The need to maintain the state transport infrastructure is considerable. The government has therefore increased the allocation for road maintenance compared to the current plan, which was established by the alliance government. The Government's objective is that the entire state road network should be of high standard and that it should be good accessibility. The government is aware of the state of the low-traffic road network and has therefore already initiated a clear investment in road maintenance in 2016. Therefore, during the period 2016 – 2020 the team for road maintenance will be increased by SEK 700 million. In this context, it may be added that E18 does not belong to the low-traffic road network and therefore does not risk being covered by the Swedish Transport Administration's so-called warning about worse conditions and reduced road safety. In order to strengthen Swedish road safety work, the Government initiated a new start of the zero vision in 2016 and a number of concrete measures. The increase in the financial framework of over SEK 100 billion for infrastructure in the coming planning period will allow for strong investment in infrastructure development and including road safety. The Swedish and Norwegian Governments agree that the development of cross-border transport infrastructure should be conducted continuously in a dialogue between their governments. The authorities responsible for the transport system in each country also cooperate on these issues. However, the plans themselves continue to be a national matter.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-550	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Infrastructure for the answer to my interpellation. It is certainly not the first time that he is standing in this Chamber debating a piece of road or rail that happens to lie in the homeland of a Member of Parliament – the part of the E18 that we are discussing right now happens to lie in my home country of Värmland. But we have representative democracy precisely in order for us to capture perspectives and societal problems across Sweden. And we have relatively good social problems when it comes to infrastructure, not least because Sweden is an elongated and rather sparsely populated country. A large maintenance debt has been built up for a long time in the area of infrastructure. Much of the focus has been on the lack of punctuality on the railways; unfortunately, we are in the bottom league of Europe with regard to it. However, the Director General of the Finnish Transport Administration, Lena Erixon, warned us some time ago that we are soon at the same crossroads with the road network that we were facing on the rail network 20 years ago. And the consequences can be much more serious if we allow the road network to fail. The road network is the backbone of the Swedish infrastructure system. 90% of all trips, at least personal trips, actually go on wheels and on a road. And the demand for goods and passenger transport will almost double over the next few decades. There are therefore strong reasons for investing in the maintenance of the road network. The Minister for Infrastructure now mentions the efforts the Government intends to make in this area over the next few years. But it's too little in my eyes. I would therefore like to add that the Moderates are investing 6 billion more in the maintenance of the road network than the government in the national plan 2018– 2019. At the same time, we match the investments made by the government on the rail network. Madam President, I would like I have not asked for this debate simply because it happens to touch my own country. This is a symptom of something that is more important in principle, namely that we find it difficult to put together infrastructure planning between Sweden and Norway. It is devastating to me, and in my other speech I will come back to that. First of all, I would like to mention a few facts about the E18 and the route we are discussing. The E18 is the body artery itself in the flow of people and goods between Sweden and Norway. The distance between Valnäs and Töcksfors will be the next 50 km on a distance of 52 km between Stockholm and Oslo, which will not be separated in the future. This is not because it is not necessary – at Trafikverket it is very clear that there are deficiencies in road safety in that area. It is also a route where, unfortunately, there have been many fatal accidents and frontal collisions, precisely because the route is not meeting-separated. But Trafikverket estimates that there is no financial space for the necessary investment. Instead, the Finnish Transport Agency is forced to propose to reduce the speed of the route to 80 kilometres. This would, of course, have a negative impact on regional development, and it is not at all as safe a measure as meeting separation on the route in question in order to improve road safety. The Minister mentioned that the government re-launched the zero vision in 2016. With this type of investment, on a route where increased meeting separation is a typical example of an effort that can save human lives, one can really move from vision to action. At the same time, conditions are created to remove the last missing link on E18 between Stockholm and Oslo. This would lead to much better road safety in the flow on the road between Stockholm and Oslo.
i-13iQBQpvpQxhjU41yNoEUD	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pål Jonson! I very much agree that we must do everything we can to increase road safety. During the year, we had the lowest number of road deaths ever — 253. I'm glad to hear that. This shows that the road safety work we have been doing in Sweden for a long time has been successful. We are the world leader in this and will be holding the major international conference on road safety by 2020. I think we should be proud of this together. It is important that we find a way to increase the separation of roads in order to reduce the risk of direct vehicle collisions and thus reduce the number of road deaths. In its proposal, the Finnish Transport Agency has advised the Government to extend the possibilities of separation in budgetary terms but also to be able to make such investments also on the county road network. It is an interesting proposal, and we will come back with comments on it in the national plan. Of course, 100 billion more matters. Now we add 100 billion more than what was laid during the time that Pål Jonson was an expert in the Government Office. Pål Jonson was not a Member of Parliament at the time, but he was an expert in the government that reduced the allocation to railways. The Minister for Finance, Anders Borg, felt it was unprofitable to invest in railways, and the result was the chaos that we have in the rail system today with recurring signalling errors and faults, because the Swedish rail system is worn down. That is one of the reasons why this government is forced to make quite extensive efforts not only on rail maintenance but on railway maintenance priorities. It's increased by 47%. We're not increasing road maintenance by as much. In this case, priority must be given to the rail network, as it is so broken. But I share the concern that we must also ensure that we have good quality on the Swedish road network. In its report to the Government, the Finnish Transport Agency warned that there was a risk that at the end of the planning period it would not be able to keep the road standard in the capillary road network – the smallest roads out in marked rural areas. Then the government responded very quickly by proposing in the budget bill additional funds, SEK 300 million, for the so-called pothole money, to ensure that the road quality is improved. I think it's important. And I think that in the future we need to see what joint responsibility all parties have to dare to invest and secure strong funding for what is sustainable in the long term. Among other things, it is to cope with the maintenance debt on both rail and road. The Moderates are now saying that they want to spend an extra 6 billion on the roads. Let us remember that they never did in government. In opposition comes suddenly 6 billion; it is unclear how it is financed. But it would have been a good thing if they had chosen to prioritise it during the eight years they had power in this country. They didn't. We now have a large maintenance debt. And we are facing a great challenge, not least in the rail system. That's why we're making the biggest investment ever with an extra 100 billion. That's a total of 700 billion. It will, of course, go a long way, but it will not cover everything. My hope is that the discussion that we have about infrastructure in Sweden today – where thankfully more parties promise to make major road investments – will lead to a discussion that generally strengthens the conditions for Swedish infrastructure. Pål Jonson's right. Freight transport needs will increase, and transport between Sweden and Norway will increase, Värmland's importance – Värmland is as central as my Småland – will increase. It is clear that forestry and commercial transport must then be brought forward. Then we must have BK4, roads that can handle 74 tons of trucks. There are many major investment needs. Part of that we will respond to in national plans, but more resources will continue to be needed.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-570	Madam President, I would like Like the Minister for Infrastructure, I'm also a big local patriot. I therefore note that the allocation in the national plan to my own county has not increased between the former and this plan, and I regret that. We have a great need for maintenance, as the Minister knows very well, not least linked to Värmlandsbanan but also linked to major investments in our road network, which we are debating today. Then I have respect for the fact that the Minister cannot comment on individual road projects such as the E18. I would therefore like to broaden the debate somewhat by addressing the second part of the answer linked to the lack of coordination between Sweden and Norway. The Minister says that investments in infrastructure that are cross-border should be decided in close dialogue between Sweden and Norway. I dare to say that, unfortunately, this dialogue has not been very successful so far. The symptoms of this are that the entire E18 is not being completed across the border, which we are now debating. Norway has completed its part of the E18 from the Swedish border all the way to the Oslo area and made sure that the road is separated. But we do not do our part because there is no meeting separation on the whole of E18 through Sweden. Unfortunately, we sometimes tend to go out of step between Sweden and Norway in the area of infrastructure. I'm not the only one who thinks so. The Minister is well aware that the Swedish Transport Administration has presented two choice studies during the last year linked to the Striket Stockholm – Oslo. Both are clear that the rich border is a problem and that there is not enough effective dialogue and cooperation between our traffic authorities. This is then a major problem when it comes to strengthening the infrastructure between Sweden and Norway. Madam President, I would like Why, then, is this so important? I'm sure the Minister for Infrastructure knows that, but perhaps not all of the audience. Norway is Sweden's most important export market. Trade exports amounted to 120 billion last year. We have increased trade with Norway by almost 30% over the last six years. In fact, we are dealing three times as much with Norway as with China today. The border commuting between Norway and Sweden is larger than the border commuting between Sweden and Denmark. The development of the Norwegian economy and the promotion of a strong infrastructure in all parts should be a strong Swedish interest in tying our two countries together better. Unfortunately, however, there are a number of outstanding problems in the area of infrastructure between Sweden and Norway. We have touched on the E18, but there are also other things that affect accessibility on the way. For example, Customs has closed the customs station in Hån during the night, as the Minister may know. This means that trucks cannot cross the border in the evening. In this way, the artery is cut off in the largest flow between Sweden and Norway. The customs office is closed during the night to save money. In my world it seems like sifting mosquitoes and swallowing camels, if the minister condones that expression. As far as the Minister's own policy is concerned, there are major problems in the dialogue linked to rail. We know that SJ has had to reduce its X2000 departures in the last year due to a renovation between Lilleström and Kongsvinger that takes place during the daytime. We do not have a common vision for how to reduce travel time by train between Stockholm and Oslo, and that is a dilemma. It takes five hours to travel by train to Oslo and three hours to Gothenburg, even though it is the same distance. Madam President, I would like My point is that if we want to promote trade and growth between Sweden and Norway – and I think that we all basically want to do – it's not about more export strategies, new assignments to Business Sweden or more promotion ambassadors, it's about getting the infrastructure together between Sweden and Norway. Above all, we cannot afford to continue to go unpaced in this area through the lack of coordination of investments that we see today on the E18 and on the railways.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-579	Madam President, I would like The dilemma, Pål Jonson, is that during the time of the alliance government you had neither export strategies, promotion strategies nor infrastructure investments. That's what's troubling me. If one had at least pursued an active industrial policy that had increased Swedish exports, it would have been good, but on the contrary they chose to be relatively passive in relation to the outside world in order to ensure the competitiveness of Swedish industry, which had disastrous consequences during the financial crisis. Sweden then lost significantly more in industrial capacity than many of our competitor countries. The bourgeois government was rather uninterested in strengthening, for example, the Swedish automotive industry. Then it is important to develop communications between Sweden and Norway, between Sweden and Finland and between Sweden and Denmark. We have opened up from this government – something that the Alliance Government did not do – for TNT corridors that allow for joint EU funding as far as Oslo. This increases the possibility of finding good funding for what are core network corridors in the same way that TNT is extended to Haparanda. Previously, this was reserved for southern Sweden. After all, the government that Pål Jonson worked for did not want to give the warmers or the Norrbottens the opportunity to take part in the EU's common funds for infrastructure investments, but left it reserved for southern Sweden. This is a government for the whole country. We think it goes without saying that we should also find this kind of financing opportunities for transport, for example, to Oslo or up to Haparanda. We do not just rely on EU funding. We also make sure that we make our own money, 100 billion more. It will not respond to all needs. More will be needed to make up for years of underinvestment, whether we are talking about maintenance or new investments. But 100 billion more is this government's ability to clearly prioritise infrastructure, unlike what it was like when we had a government that prioritised tax cuts. Nevertheless, it is important for voters and for those following this discussion to understand that however much opposition speaks well for different local or regional infrastructure projects, we should remember that, once it comes to the moderate agenda, there are substantial tax cuts such as job tax deductions and other things. It's gonna cost you. So far – every time we have had a bourgeois government – it has sometimes resulted in large budget deficits. This means that the back door has made it difficult for future governments to finance infrastructure investments. I would like to hope and believe that the commitment that we now see in the opposition to strengthen Swedish infrastructure is also expressed in terms of the budget, even after the elections. Then we can get a broader consensus in Sweden that it is profitable for Sweden to have a well-functioning infrastructure, to strengthen the road network, to ensure that trucks up to 74 tonnes can arrive so that the forest industry gets improved competitive conditions, that shipping can develop and that the border trade, not least between Värmland and Norway, can develop better. We will then need to allocate resources to finance infrastructure and maintenance operations. Then it is necessary, and Pål Jonson is quite right, to cooperate even more closely between our governments. With regard to the latter example of rail, it has, of course, been a concern that the Norwegian side chose to re-prioritise its efforts. But I myself have been in contact with the Norwegian Minister for Infrastructure, and I believe that there are opportunities to find solutions in the future. But I would like to have a closer cooperation. In Värmland and the region there is close cooperation with our Norwegian friends, and I hope that we, as neighbouring countries, will be able to develop it in the future. It is needed for trade and for jobs, but also for the sake of the climate.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-586	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Infrastructure, for this debate. There has been a hail of different angles of approach that have been raised. Let me highlight this with the export strategy. The problem I have with the government's industrial policy – the Minister highlighted it – is that you give with one hand and take the other with you. M a n the introduction of export strategies while increasing burdens and red tape for companies. According to the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, the business environment in Sweden is now the worst since the year 2008 was measured. Then I'd like to give some credit. It is absolutely excellent that the government is ensuring the introduction of TNT routes from Stockholm to Oslo. I have exercised this myself. I do not think that is why the government has acted, but I welcome everyone who gets an increased insight into Norway's development and the need for a better infrastructure between Sweden and Norway, so I therefore welcome the fact that TNT will be extended between Stockholm and Oslo. Then I have some more comprehensive and concluding comments. I cannot help but mention the risks that exist when the government now seems to lead Sweden into a high-risk project in the form of high-speed investments, while we know that there is such a great need for investment in the road network here and now. Many of us politicians have a great preference for trains; we commute by train and live near trains. But it is a slightly distorted reality, because the majority of the common man tends to use the car very much. In most places in Sweden you still have to use a car, because the train network does not extend across the country. After all, these people also pay taxes, and in my view they get back far too little on their tax bill in relation to the need that exists here and now. We have to invest in the road network. I would really like to appeal to the Minister not to throw Sweden into any high-risk project. Sooner or later it will have consequences for the backbone of our infrastructure that the road network constitutes.
i-daa1e1275b44dca0-592	Madam President, I would like As far as the last point is concerned, it is probably an unnecessary point. I myself come from the automotive industry and love to drive. I know that a very large part of Sweden is about being able to get on our roads. The high-speed train project is on the one hand about creating new main roads, as it is full of tracks. We must build a new railway, because today it is full on the main roads or on other roads. On the other hand, it's a huge investment. If it is to be possible at all, a very broad consensus is required. I am courted by Pål Jonson's party partners in much of the country. Moderates see this as absolutely necessary to develop the region in Jönköping, Linköping or wherever you live. If we are to make such an investment, there must be a broad handshake, because it will bind capacity and resources for a long time to come. It must not be at the expense of other infrastructure. It is therefore also important that the solution be taken outside the national plan, hence the negotiations that the government has invited. We must have the resources to also be able to develop the roads in Värmland and Småland or other parts of the railway system in northern Sweden or in eastern and western Sweden. I also have a few comments on exports. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise may say that the business environment is bad, but then they are completely blind to reality. It's like the train. We have a record in exports. We're taking more market shares. We have the highest level of employment ever. The double blow was warned of, where young people would go into unemployment, failed and instead we have the lowest youth unemployment rate in 16 years. This government has turned Sweden's economic development from 60 billion in budget deficits into large surpluses and confidence in the future, not least for Swedish industry. It is not fundamentally gone, as the former Prime Minister said, but it is on the rise, developing and creating jobs in Värmland and Småland. I am convinced that the future for Sweden is to create jobs, jobs and growth and to meet the climate challenge throughout the country, not just in the metropolitan regions.
