i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-5	Mr President, I would like to Today we are going to debate an issue that is very much about children and the conditions for children. The title is Moderner rules on assisted conception and parenthood. As far as the Christian Democrats are concerned, I would like to start by calling for the approval of Amendment No 3. I understand that the title "Modern rules on assisted conception and parenthood" is fully in line with how the current government likes to look at parenthood issues. But for us Christian Democrats, rules concerning children can never be about what is modern or what is not, but about what is timeless. Children's conditions and children's rights under the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which we will be debating in this House later this week, are not something that is a fly. It is not something that should be adapted to the whims of time. Having said that, there are essentially things in the report that the Christian Democrats agree with. It is important and relevant changes that take the child's perspective and strengthen the child's right to know even more about his or her origin. It's good, and it's important. The report also contains many issues that are extremely difficult. They concern situations where adults' longing for children must be brought against the rights of the child. One of the proposals which is not included in the report, but which I am guessing quite a lot of today's debate will be about what is usually referred to as surrogate motherhood. It is a question of whether any person with a truly very understandable difficult child's desire should be given the right to use someone else's body. Explicitly, it's about using a woman's body. We have seen the effects of surrogate motherhood and what the results are. It is often very economically and socially vulnerable women who are forced to be referred to renting out their bodies in order to support themselves and their children. From the Christian Democrats' side, we are very pleased that the current government has come to the same position as us. There is no right to someone else's body regardless of what kind of trade it is. All that cannot be described as anything other than human trafficking should not be allowed in our country. That is why we fully agree with the government on this issue. Then there are some issues in which the Christian Democrats see that, as we now change legislation, we must be very careful to follow up. What are the effects on the child? Children who grow up with parents who are not genetically related should have the right to know their genetic heritage. But what are the conditions? What are the possible difficulties of growing up? The purpose of following this is, of course, to ensure that we can give the children the best possible conditions and help them with any obstacles that might arise from having arisen in such a situation. We know that parenting is not easy. But being a child is not easy either. We must support both parents and children in order to provide the best possible conditions. For us Christian Democrats, it is important that all kinds of in vitro fertilisation, that is, when we are trying, with the help of medicine, to remedy infertility, always have the child's perspective as the first issue. It is important not to use medical methods when it is not a matter of medical infertility. Medical childlessness is where we have a duty and responsibility according to WHO definitions of what is the responsibility of health care. Then we'll use them for that, too. But it is not methods that should be used in other contexts. The legislation now being proposed should also enable embryos to be donated. When that possibility exists, it is important that it is the fertilized eggs that we should use first. The reason why the Christian Democrats can support the changes is that we know that today, in connection with the treatments of artificial fertilization, a number of eggs are fertilised which are not then used but destroyed. Today, they must not be used to be donated. Opening that opportunity protects life. That is why the Christian Democrats support it. In order to further protect life, it is also important that we take into account that as long as there are fertilised eggs and someone has medical reasons for not being able to use the couple's own eggs or sperm, it should not be donated to separate eggs and sperm, but rather use the fertilised eggs that already exist. It's in the service of life. Mr President, I would like to I've already made my claims.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-16	Mr President, I would like to I note that today we are dealing with a report with steps in the right direction, more modern rules on assisted reproduction and parenthood. Unfortunately, however, the government lacks understanding and its lack of proposals in the area of surrogate motherhood. Altruistic surrogacy should be a suggestion. Let me begin by saying that it is positive that in recent years the opportunities for involuntary childless parents have improved. This is particularly true of the possibility for single women to undergo assisted fertilisation. That is a question on which we Moderates have been pushing. It's a bill that's run from an investigation that the Alliance government set up in 2013. It is therefore easy today to welcome the Government's proposal that it should be permitted, among other things, to carry out fertilization outside the body with only donated germ cells, so-called embryo donation. The more modern rules of assisted fertilization are also welcome. The rules on parenthood after assisted reproduction abroad should be the same for divorced and same-sex couples. It is a good thing that more opportunities are now being introduced for social welfare boards and courts to establish paternity according to our Swedish legislation. This will make it easier for the child's genetic father after a surrogate arrangement abroad. However, as I said, I regret that the government has not chosen to bring forward legislation to make so-called altruistic surrogate motherhood a legal method in Sweden. That is why I am in favour of reservation 10. What is worrying and shows a lack of government and its representatives is how to mix apples and pears together. Altruistic surrogate motherhood is confused with commercial surrogate motherhood. It's very unfortunate, because these are two completely different things. In the case of altruistic surrogate motherhood, those who act as host mother and carry the child can receive financial compensation for the costs she has incurred in connection with pregnancy, but not beyond that. Often it's about a loved one who wants to help a woman – it can be a little different, for example a sister, a sister-in-law or a son-in-law. But in the case of commercial surrogate motherhood, the woman undergoing pregnancy receives a financial compensation that is significantly higher than the costs she has incurred. There are usually different agencies and such pieces involved. We're gonna keep apples and pears apart, and we're gonna know what these differences are. Unfortunately, the government parties are not doing this. I had the happiness of becoming a mother for the second time a few months ago. To yearn for a child and to become a parent is an amazing feeling. Those of us who have listened to or otherwise heard the stories of involuntary childless couples know that they bear witness to a sense of failure and emptiness. Even single women and men can experience this great yearning for children. Today, as I said, there are different ways for involuntary childless people to satisfy this missing child after child. Unfortunately, however, neither proposals nor reforms are in place for altruistic surrogate motherhood in Sweden. So it is not an accessible way, and we Moderates had welcomed the fact that this had begun to be reviewed. In today's society, families look different. This also applies to different family formations. Already today, many Swedish involuntary childless couples travel abroad to start a family with the help of a surrogate mother. Compared to whether this has been allowed in Sweden, the process takes place with less transparency and a tight legal framework when you return home, and you are met with a tight regulatory framework when you come home and. If we had had an altruistic surrogate motherhood in place in Sweden, it would have been an option for many of these families, they themselves say. We had also had this in orderly forms in Sweden. Finally, Mr President, a feminist government should not see women as victims, but as self-determination people who have the ability to make decisions concerning their own bodies just as much as men can. As far as the child perspective is concerned, this is already a reality today. Today, my friends, about 50 children are added every year in Sweden via surrogate motherhood. So it is not about being for or against. I'm afraid we've passed that, my friends in the government. This is reality. These kids are here today. This is not a hypothetical debate. Mr President, I would like to I regret that the government has chosen not to go forward with any draft legislation for so-called altruistic surrogate motherhood and that it will be a permissible method in Sweden.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-30	Mr President, I would like to I never thought I'd discuss women's sperm in Parliament's pulpit. This bill drew attention to social media and was spread – not for its good proposals but for the change in gender roles that allow a child to have two biological parents of the same sex during childbirth. The rules on parenthood are amended so that a man who gives birth to a child is considered the father of the child, and a woman who contributes her sperm to the birth of a child is considered the mother of the child. For those who believe that there are two sexes today, where giving birth is something female and sperm is something male, this may seem like a strange rule. The reason for writing is the definition of gender today and the removal of the requirement for sterilisation to switch to the opposite sex. We have now proposed an investigation in which the definitions of gender are being reviewed. This proposal clearly demonstrates that the way in which gender is defined today is flawed. The proposed change will only lead to new problems and new shortcomings, which will need to be addressed by new legislation. Today, there are essentially three ways of defining gender: biological gender, legal gender and gender. Biological sex is, a little simplistic, based on which germ cells are produced. Gender is experienced gender and is based on human experience. Legal gender is based on biological sex but can be changed if a person experiences belonging to the second sex and lives up to certain basic conditions. It is quite unique to gender that it can be partially influenced by the personal experience of what a gender is and means. The government has sent out a proposal for a referral in which the legal gender becomes a mere wishful queue. Other data recorded by the government is not usually based on experiences but on fixed measurable variables. The legal sex is then the basis for how to be considered in the legislation and which rules to apply. The question is why the state makes a distinction and why you define sex when it is as liquid as you now want to make it. The important thing here should be to know who becomes parents and who of them has undergone a birth. For the state, it is quite uninteresting if a person is considered a mother or father. Mother and father are also values that are valued differently. For example, you can contribute your sperm to the birth of a child without ever being like a father to the child, as well as the reverse: You can be like a father to a child without ever contributing any sperm. To say, however, as some parties want, that the legislation should be completely gender-neutral is to go too far. For example, it may be interesting to know who gave birth to the child when giving birth. This person may experience various problems before or after giving birth and should therefore be entitled to compensation other than that which has become a parent without being pregnant. It is also interesting to know who the other parent is when the parents together bear a joint responsibility for their common child– not to mention the longer-term need to be able to research and follow up various things. Today, most laws are adapted so that they do not make a difference between genders. Of course, it is good that the differences are as small as possible, as long as they do not impair the function. At the same time, the adaptation must not be overstated, but it is important that we have workable legislation. Then it should first and foremost be adapted to the majority. Individual deviations will always exist and may need to be treated individually. There's nothing strange in itself, but that's what you do in most areas. Several parties have mentioned in different contexts that they want to investigate a third legal sex for those who believe that they do not fit into the two legal genders that we have today. It makes sense if you're going to define your sex yourself. However, I do not believe in such a solution. Adding more legal sex is hardly a solution, as it is fundamentally uninteresting to the state how people define their own sex. If someone wants to call himself something other than man and woman or mother and father, each individual is free to define it. Just as it has always been, there are the words that people use. However, population records should be based on data that are verifiable and linked to other things than people's perceptions. My conclusion is that the definition of gender needs to be reviewed. It needs to be explored how it can be better functioning on the basis of the necessary criteria. When the definition of gender allows a child to have two biological parents of the same sex and when the definition allows a parent to be considered the father of a child but the mother of another child, I think it is time to investigate what kind of definition we should actually have in our registers. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, I would like to say that we support all our reservations, but for the time to come, I am only in favour of reservations 1 and 11.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-44	Mr President, I would like to For a couple, it means a life crisis not being able to have children of your own. Any couple who have gone through it can describe the depth of grief involved. This is not unusual, but it affects perhaps 10 to 15 percent of all couples. In the past, there has been only one way to solve this problem, namely, that a child born by other parents has been cared for, perhaps a brother's or a sister's child. Then, of course, it is supplemented by the possibility of adopting children. But medical developments have been very exciting in this area for the last 40 or perhaps 50 years. They have moved on and been able to diagnose and actually find out exactly what it is because the couple cannot have children. As medical research and development have progressed, new methods have also come along all the time. But in this area and with regard to this disability, because I would actually like to call it that, there has always been a great political debate around each individual small step. Conservative forces have always argued that there should be only one way to have children: it should be children of its own or adoption. But in the end, there has been a majority here in Parliament who have said that the method is okay to use. It is important that there is also a political process with regard to these decisions because it is not only about the man and the woman but also about the child. I do not think it is at all wrong, but the arguments are repeated time and again. Today, no one is questioning the right to IVF, insemination, hormone treatment or any of the other methods, but there are still some methods in which there is a strong moral discussion. One of them is about the couples who cannot have children because the woman has no uterus or has a uterus that is damaged after, for example, a cancer treatment. For those couples there is a rather simple treatment, I would say, and that is what is called surrogate motherhood, or host motherhood, as I would actually call it. Another woman offers to carry the couple's children – often it's about a sister-in-law or a sister-in-law. This is a method that allows even the couples where the woman has no uterus to actually become parents. This is a method that is well-proven. It is used in a large number of countries. Most experience has New Zealand where you have an altruistic host motherhood as method and money in no way involved. For a number of years now, a great deal of research has been done that has been followed and looked at: What is happening to these families? What happens to the woman — both the one who carried the child and the one who received the child? Not least, and perhaps most important, what happens to these children? Extensive experiences from New Zealand clearly show that there is no indication that children are somehow affected. Experience from there shows that it is important to carefully review the medical history of the woman who chooses to carry the couple's children, for there one has had some troubles that one has now come to grips with. It is then extremely strange that there is such resistance to this in Sweden. This means that quite a large number of couples who cannot have children for this reason today are forced to go to other countries. It refers to what is commonly called commercial host motherhood or commercial surrogate motherhood, that is to say, you have to pay money for it, and it is not cheap. This means that this method in Sweden is basically open only to those parents who cannot have children of their own and who also have a very strong economy. It's deeply immoral. The report we are discussing now corrects one side of it, namely that these couples, when they have returned to Sweden, have been subjected to quite ruthless treatment from social services in their municipalities. I will add that this has been the case in some municipalities but not in all. It is corrected, because now this is an accepted way of caring for a child. But it doesn't open the door at all to the possibility of doing this in Sweden. For me and the Center Party, that's the obvious thing. We have a method that we know is good for the child and for the involuntary childless couple but forces Swedish citizens to pay expensive money to use a commercial surrogate motherhood in other countries when we could open up to it in Sweden. We could open the door for sisters and sisters - in - law to carry the childless couple's children. I am absolutely convinced, Mr President, that developments in this area will be the same as all the other times it has been about involuntary infertility and new methods have come that have been initially rejected by conservative forces but then accepted as something common. This will also be the case this time. It is extremely gratifying that no less than three parties today are behind the right to use surrogate motherhood, host motherhood, even in Sweden. Besides the Center Party, it's the Liberals and the Moderates. I believe that a few years ahead we will be able to make decisions here in the Swedish Parliament that will no longer force these couples to go to other countries and pay very expensive money, which means that the method is only available to those who have a strong economy. So, Mr President, there is a great deal of good news in this debate as we have reached this point. I am somehow looking at the light in the tunnel on this issue as well. I would therefore like to endorse Amendment No 10.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-55	Mr President, I would like to Most of the speech, like whole, was devoted to surrogate motherhood, which was described as a simple treatment. I want to be clear about what I think about surrogate motherhood: Children are not goods that can be ordered or purchased. Women are not factories to make children. Even if one could guarantee that a woman does not volunteer for economic reasons, there are plenty of other ways of exerting pressure on someone you want to volunteer. What happens if the woman repents? How do you guarantee that the woman has not been subjected to pressure? Instead, the Swedish Democrats want to look at how we can make it impossible for Swedes to exploit vulnerable women in other countries as surrogates. It is actually happening today, as the Center Party has rightly pointed out. Some parties even want to make it easier. The questions I have are the many questions that always arise when you talk about surrogate motherhood. Does the woman renounce the right to an abortion? What happens if the woman herself wants to keep the baby? In fact, one ties up with the child in a rather strong way, I would say, after witnessing my wife's three pregnancies. And what happens if the child carries an injury and the prospective parents no longer want to accept it? These are questions that the Center Party must be able to answer if surrogate motherhood is now to be introduced, as is claimed here in the speaker's chair that it wants to.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-60	Mr President, I would like to It is not surprising that Mikael Eskilandersson from the Swedish Democrats makes himself a spokesperson for the most conservative approach to involuntary childless couples' ability to have children. The Swedish Democrats are the party that most clearly says that adoption and not much else applies. It is also clear when the Swedish Democrats say that you should not be able to order children. Who said you could order a baby? We have a trial of all parents who are going through such a thing, just the same as when you adopt. The Swedish Democrats also say that women should not be factories. Who has claimed that the sister or sister-in-law is a factory to produce children? It is a view of involuntary parenting that is an out-of-date. With regard to the questions raised by Mikael Eskilandersson, there are clear answers. And those answers come from countries with altruistic surrogacy or host motherhood for a long time. If the woman repents, the solution in New Zealand is always ultimately that the biological determines parenthood. But in New Zealand, where you have ten years of experience, it has never happened. For the women who stand and bear the children of another woman have given birth to the children they want. They have felt very good during their pregnancy and are happy to help a sister to have a baby. In countries where they have altruistic parenthood, legislation is clear that the host mother has full responsibility for the child until the child is born, and then an adoption procedure takes place. It's no problem at all. The possibility of this is to ensure that you are not forced to go abroad and pay expensive money. That's why we want this change.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-66	Mr President, I would like to I still think that it is about how we really look at women and how, in practice, women can be used as a factory to make children. It may be that the biological will decide, but it means that the woman has no right whatsoever to keep a child to whom she has linked. Furthermore, the honourable Member did not respond to what happens if there is damage to the child. What happens if the prospective parents suddenly refrain from receiving the child? I find it difficult to see which woman would want to go through a pregnancy – with stretch marks, nausea, loss of joints and anything else that usually occurs in connection with a normal pregnancy and childbirth – and then give away the baby she has given birth. It is clear that it is possible to limit it so that there is no possibility of financial compensation, but there are other ways of exerting pressure. How do you know that the methods of pressure have not been used? There is no direct research on what women have been exposed to or how they have decided to carry the child. The research that exists is, as I have seen, on the children who have since been born. I don't understand the basic view. Women are not factories to make children. Children are not an item of order. If you have that need to have children, I refer to the need to adopt the child. You should not order a child through another woman to carry it.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-72	Mr President, I would like to There are countries that have had these systems for a long time. There is extensive research, and there are very thorough follow-ups. I have used New Zealand as an example. The women who offer to carry another woman's child are primarily sisters and sisters - in - law. There have also been a number of women who have signed up precisely because they have given birth to the three four children they want in their family. It has felt fantastic during pregnancy and therefore offers to stand up without financial compensation for a fellow sister to bear that couple's children. The women who do this haven't had very difficult childbirths or very tough pregnancies and so on. Here is a selection based on the fact that those who register are women who have felt good during their pregnancies – there are actually many who do – and who have had the children they want themselves. The follow-up research that has been done in New Zealand shows, as I said, that in all the years they have had surrogate motherhood – I think they are up for 15 years now – they have had a case that ended tragically. It was a woman who had a birth psychosis and killed herself. From that example, it was learned that it is extremely important to be careful with the follow-up and to find out about it. The woman in question had had such problems also in connection with previous pregnancies and childbirths. This is a method for which there is a strong research base. No problems can be found at all for children, and a careful selection process can also ensure that women do not get hurt. What the Swedish Democrats advocate, however, is a risk that women will suffer. The childless couples are forced to go abroad and pay expensive money. That's what we don't want. We want all women living in Sweden who have these problems to be able to offer this method.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-78	Mr President, I would like to This is actually a pretty big day. The Government's proposal means that within Swedish healthcare it is allowed to perform conception outside the body with only donated germ cells and that the requirement that the future child should have a genetic connection to at least one parent in assisted conception is removed. That's extremely good, isn't it? This is a new time. They're new family formations. There are new opportunities to become parents. It just feels right. Other measures are also proposed to make it easier for involuntary childless parents to become parents, including the possibility of extra-body fertilisation with donated germ cells in healthcare establishments other than university hospitals. It's a step forward. Research in this area shows that children born in this way — as seen in other countries — are as well as other children. It's about love, the love that you give the child no matter how the child has come into being. It is extremely important to have it in the centre. Today, there is no general possibility for couples to choose for themselves which person they want as a donor of germ cells. According to the law on genetic integrity, it is the doctor who chooses the appropriate donor. There are really no obstacles to the doctor choosing a donor whom the couple themselves chose and who is willing to participate. But how the desire to choose a donor is met varies, of course, depending on which doctor it is and where you end up in the care. We believe that the right to choose a donor should be looked at and that it should be regulated. That's why I'm lifting reservation 7. Since lesbian couples had access to assisted fertilization in Swedish healthcare in 2005, hospitals' queues have increased. For lesbian couples and single women, where the woman who is going to carry the child does not have problems with infertility, it might be easier to go to a midwife's clinic to get help with the insemination, instead of getting in line with a hospital. If midwives had the opportunity to perform inseminations, the burden at hospitals would be reduced, and those seeking treatment would not have to wait in queues. A consequence of the bill is that for a married parent couple where one or both have changed gender identity, paternity or maternity of the person who has not given birth shall be established by confirmation or judgment. Thus, any paternity presumption or equivalent maternity presumption does not apply in these cases. This is a disadvantage for those concerned compared to what is currently in force. We believe that the government should give priority to the issue and quickly come back with a legislative proposal that introduces a gender-neutral presumption of parenthood, including when a married partner of the bearer of a child changes gender. The fact that a woman bears and gives birth to a child on behalf of others is called surrogate motherhood, and that is not allowed in Sweden today. Surrogate motherhood involves the establishment of a business contract between a surrogate mother and an ordering couple. This is a business transaction where the woman cancels the right to her body and to custody and contact with the child after giving birth. She becomes a bearer of the child. Surrogate motherhood is a big business in the world. It has a turnover of approximately 13 – 15 billion per year. Who, then, are becoming surrogates? Is it a white woman of middle class in Sweden? No, it is not, it is rather poor women in India, for example. It's about class, gender and ethnicity. The European Parliament has stated in a resolution that surrogacy is a serious problem in which women's body and reproductive organs are exploited. It's a kind of modern colonialism. Now we are talking about something else in Sweden, we are talking about altruistic surrogate motherhood. I can see a connection to commercial surrogate motherhood. In the Netherlands, for example, which has allowed altruistic surrogacy, the demand for so-called children's factories is increasing. I sometimes wonder why a woman would want to expose herself to one of the most stressful things that a woman's body can be subjected to and then not be allowed to keep the baby. Would you, who have written these motions, be willing to carry a child and then give it up? I really wonder. I think this is a difficult question. It is also never known whether there is social peer pressure to act as host mother for childless relatives. There can be quite large and emotional consequences, I think. Moreover, it is completely impossible to check whether money or gifts have occurred. If pressure or force has been used, you can never control. Being pregnant and having a baby is one of the most risky things you can do. You also connect with the child. Both the physical and psychological effects of a pregnancy are impossible to relate in advance. I think this is a feminist question, perhaps because of how you look at feminism. I have every understanding of the anxiety and grief of involuntary childlessness. But there is something extremely, partly patriarchal and even colonial, in using other women's bodies for their own longing. In this case, I am in favour of reservation 7, and we naturally support the other reservations.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-95	Mr President, I would like to I have two questions for Karin Rågsjö. One of the major changes that is now taking place is that we are opening the way for IVF to take place in places other than university hospitals. This means that we open up the private clinics to carry out these kinds of treatments. It is gratifying that the Left Party also thinks that this is a good change. You will therefore be voting in favour of this. The first question relates to what the discussion has been like in view of your view, moreover, of private health care. The second question is, of course, surrogate motherhood. Karin Rågsjö says it's a business deal. Yes, it does because the couples in Sweden where the woman has no uterus today are forced to go to another country and pay for surrogate pregnancy. That is why we want to ensure that it is allowed in Sweden, so that it does not become a business deal. Then Karin Rågsjö asks if it is white middle class women in Sweden who are willing to carry another woman's child. No, it is not because it is forbidden in Sweden. But by opening up to surrogate motherhood in Sweden, it would be a number of sisters or sisters-in-law who would be willing to carry their sister's or sister-in-law's children. That is precisely the change that we should have made. Karin Rågsjö also wonders if we, who have signed the exercise, could support this. It's biologically difficult for me. But it is clear that those women who have felt good during their pregnancy and who want to volunteer should have that opportunity. What I wonder, Karin Rågsjö, is how you feel about how you harm the women who have undergone this treatment when you equate this with prostitution.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-100	Mr President, I would like to I'll start with profits in welfare. We discussed it last Monday in this room. Now there are gains in the welfare of all sorts. I expect that these clinics will also casha out a lot of profits. Now it is the reality in which we live. You can't remove these clinics with the proposal in mind. That would be very strange. We're talking about health care as a whole. I am absolutely convinced that the various clinics will continue to cash out their excess profits. If they weren't, that would be great. They could still be in health care, wouldn't they, Anders? You run the myth that with a profit cap everything would go private and we would go back to the 70s with small gray receptions with a mean midwife. We don't want that. That is a total misunderstanding on your part. You are spreading this myth together with the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. You say if we could decide, you'd go back to the '70s. It's not like that. We are in favour of private options, but we are against the excessive profit ceilings. That is what we have been discussing. When it comes to surrogate motherhood, host motherhood – you name it – not many referrals are in favour of it. I would like to see a study on how many Swedish women would like to carry their sister's children. Even if it is a Swedish host motherhood, you will never know what kind of pressure is in the background, such as money or anything else – never. If you've been carrying a child for nine months, it's not just to say, please, dear sister, here's your baby. Thank you and hello! That's not how the world works.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-105	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased to note that the Left Party also accepts that private clinics can offer IVF. But it is with sadness in my heart that I listen to Karin Rågsjö's answer when it comes to all the childless couples where surrogacy is the only way to have children. Unfortunately, because of Swedish legislation, reference is made to other countries where you have to pay very large amounts of money to be able to have a child. They are then exposed to spit and spe, not least from the Left Party representatives. They say that what you have done to have your beloved child is nothing more than to equate with prostitution. I wonder: Is there any kind of reflection in the Left Party? You point your finger at the couples who have made this sacrifice and say that it is the same as going to another country and buying a prostitute. I am very strongly opposed to that choice of words. Why should we continue to have legislation in Sweden that allows the only possibility for women who have no uterus or who have undergone cancer treatment to have a child is to have a very good economy so that you can afford to go to another country and through a commercial surrogate motherhood be able to become parents? Would it not be better to open up to altruistic surrogate motherhood even in Sweden without any money involved and without any business settlement. In addition, this would also be available to couples who do not have 500 000 – 700 000 crowns that can be used to become parents in another country. It should be something that would be well in line with the ideology of the Left Party, to allow treatment even for the less well-off.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-109	Mr President, I would like to As you know, Anders W Jonsson, the Left Party is a feminist party. I've never compared these parents to prostitution and I don't know who you're referring to. Unfortunately, you don't have time to say it because you don't have a line left on me. I absolutely understand their desire, that they are sad and have anxiety and that childlessness is super heavy. At the same time, a choice must be made as a feminist. That's how I see the question. It is about the view of women at all. Should women be the bearer of my longing and then give up her child? Should they have to take the risks that a pregnancy actually poses? For us in the Left Party, this feels like a somewhat patriarchal issue. At a host motherhood you have absolutely no idea what is involved in such a transaction. It can be about money, or you can think of it as a gift. There may also be pressure within the family. You can imagine what it could look like. It'll be like a very rational deal: Okay, dear sister, you're having my baby. Great! I'll take care of it. But then you can't have any views on the child, how it is raised or about my motherhood. Although it's all altruistic, you look at women as if they were small factories, no matter what the situation. Humans don't work that rationally. Women should not be used in this way either for altruistic motherhood or for surrogate motherhood. It would be going a long way back in time or going to something in a future that I do not want to be part of.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-113	Mr President, I would like to We are now discussing more modern rules for assisted conception and parenthood. Today we are taking important decisions and steps forward in a controversial area. I am, of course, in favour of the Liberals' reservations, but only in favour of reservation 10 under paragraph 9, Surrogate motherhood. In the discussion, I will use the word. I, born before World War II, experienced a second world war of surrogate coffee and surrogate products of various kinds. They were worse copies of the original. That is why I am opposed to the use of the word, and to talking about surrogate mothers as if their pregnancy were worse than that of other women. Even worse would be to call the children surrogate children. These are children who are individuals, just as much worth as any other child. What we are discussing today is one of the most difficult ethical problems we have in politics to address and decide on. The beginning of life and the end of life are areas that we see as very difficult. We have more or less extensive knowledge of the issues, but in addition, values of various kinds come into play. Values are very controlling. However, they change over time, which becomes very clear in this particular area. In the early 1980s, the issue of insemination and what was then called in vitro fertilization came up. This was extremely controversial. There was then a women's organization that saw test tube fertilization as women being used as reproductive machines. Thus, abusive words were used in this regard. In any case, we had legislation, but it was very limited to those who could have access to insemination and in vitro fertilisation. It was about married couples or cohabiting couples. There would also be a biological connection. On this occasion, egg donation was also rejected. Gynaecologist Marc Bygdeman reacted to this. He wondered why sperm and eggs were not equal and why there was a prohibitive view of egg donation. This view was so harsh that there was no change in Parliament's decision during the period 1985-1988. It only came in 2004 or 2006 – you can use different dates here. The issue that is most controversial here and which has been raised by many is about children who are so long-awaited that the parents resort to host motherhood. Today we are discussing altruistic host motherhood, where money is not in the picture. Many of the arguments used against altruistic host motherhood are those we use against commercial host motherhood, which we want to get rid of in this context. Anders W Jonsson clearly explained situations where the woman in a couple may be unable to present a child because of cancer or because she was born without a uterus. Instead, someone close to her has offered to be a host mother. We recently held a seminar here in the Riksdag on women who have stood as host mothers. Their experiences and experiences from New Zealand, for example, show that it is well thought out and that they have done nothing under duress. They have experienced that they have done the finest, good deeds that a person can offer a child - seeking couple. The fact that the majority in this Parliament now say no to host motherhood will not prevent couples, women and men from becoming parents that way. Strong childish desire cannot be resisted. I met three cases in 1985. It was Swedish women who brought children to close family members. Neither parents nor host mothers dared to mention their names in the media. They feared that what was called the Child Welfare Board would take the children away from them. Such was the attitude in the mid-80s. It's a scary sight. What we need is more follow-up on how the children are doing. They're the main characters here. They haven't chosen to be born, so it's their best man to protect. The follow-up to the children's situation has shown that they have done well, for they were so wanted. However, we need broader follow-up, even if women and parents are successful. This will take time. To get assisted conception for single women, even though they were allowed to adopt, took 31 years. The opportunity for homosexuals to adopt took 13 years. The possibility of assisted conception for lesbian couples took 11 years. For embryo donation, it's taken 30 years. However, this has been achieved due to the increased knowledge we have gained in society about different situations and due to changes in valuation. I am convinced that this Parliament will decide on host motherhood. But it will take a number of years, because we need to know more about the consequences for those undergoing altruistic host motherhood – we are clearly opposed to commercial host motherhood. It is noted that having children is not a right, but people with a strong desire for children make sure that their desire is fulfilled, whether it is a right or not and whether it is legal or not. Let's make it legal!
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-126	Mr President, I would like to Liberals want not only to allow surrogate motherhood in Sweden but also to facilitate the use of what they call host mother arrangements abroad, which in practice is just a fine expression of buying a woman's body abroad to have a child delivered for themselves. It is contrary to the attitude of my party, which is based on our trying to prevent the exploitation of women in other countries, preferably through legislation. On a website that pays for ads via Google you can get help with such an arrangement. From $30,000 it costs to buy a woman and get treatment in another country. Another 10 000 Swedish kronor you have to pay if you also want help getting this through the Swedish bureaucracy afterwards. My question is really very simple: why do the Liberals want to support and simplify activities that sell women's bodies abroad?
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-129	Mr President, I would like to It seems that the honourable Member has not heard what I am saying. We are for altruistic host motherhood but against commercial. What is the opportunity for people to say no here in the Swedish Parliament to altruistic host motherhood? Yes, you take your destiny in your own hand and go abroad. Then it is unfortunately the case that money comes into the picture, which we are fundamentally opposed to. We want to work towards it in the United Nations and the World Health Organisation, but the lid is on when it comes to host motherhood at all in the international context. So we need more documentation from New Zealand and so on. After all, the couples who attended our seminar in Parliament testified that they had to pay for this. Then they had problems becoming parents. It was a legal problem, and here the decision we make today makes a little bit easier. We want to make it easier; when the couple abroad have been made clear that they are the parents of the child, it should also be accepted in Sweden.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-132	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to answer the question of what options you have if you cannot have children yourself. Well, there's adoption, for example. It is a far better option than going abroad and buying a woman's body and then using it for the sake of your own child. It's really just that you want to have a genetic connection to the child in some way, which I can understand that you want. However, I can never understand that this should be done at the expense of some poor woman in any other country. Liberals say they are against buying and exploiting women's bodies in other countries. But at the same time you simplify for it, and then it becomes a little double. If you really are against it, you should make sure that it is not allowed, that you simply ban it and make it illegal to go abroad and buy women's bodies. You do that when it comes to sexual services, for example. Then it's illegal. But when it comes to buying a woman for nine months to undergo pregnancy and childbirth and then giving her child away to a Swedish couple it is all of a sudden legal. For me, this is a strange way of looking at women and women's freedom. I do not think that the right to children should really be granted. It is the child who should have rights. It is not the parents who should be entitled to a child. There is no one who should really be entitled to a child. If you live up to certain conditions, you should be able to be tested for adoption or get help with having children yourself. But just the right to buy someone else to carry a child, I never think we should ever make it.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-135	Mr President, I would like to The Member mentions adoption. Firstly, it is difficult today to access adopted children. For gay men who have a strong desire for children, it is virtually impossible. Secondly, the countries from which we used to adopt in the past are now much more negative to adopt their children, so to speak. They want adoption primarily within their own family, secondly within their own community and thirdly within their own country. Long ago, in 1985, I thought adoption was a solution, but I have learned more about this issue. When it comes to the money, we can look at where you go today. In the United States, for example, it is a very thorough examination of the host mother. The majority of those who say yes are not allowed to do so, since they have tried so hard that they really want to do so. In the United States, it has also been concluded that it may be an advantage that it is not a family-like woman who stands up without someone who, for purely altruistic reasons, says yes to this. We want to make it easier for these parents and children to have their legal rights recognised here in Sweden. These are individuals who exist, and they themselves have come into this situation. It's about much-desired children. They should not have to be stateless for so long here in Sweden.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-138	Mr President, I would like to For many, parenting is an extremely important part of life. Of course, when things don't work out as you wish, it's a great sadness. It is therefore very gratifying that we are going to make decisions today that will make it easier for many involuntary childless children to become parents. What the proposal means, previous speakers have raised quite carefully, so I will skip some of it. What I want to add, for example, is that the time that a fertilised egg can be frozen can be prolonged. This is very welcome, as there is probably a great need for it. It is also welcome that this treatment can be carried out in non-university hospitals after the Medical and Care Inspection has given permission. Issues relating to paternity have been dealt with earlier during the term of office in some motion reports. In 2015, an announcement was made to the government that there is reason to examine the current regime for determining paternity. At the moment, the investigation is on-going Moderner rules on paternity and parenthood, which will propose how the rules on confirmation of paternity can be modernised and simplified. This task will be presented at the end of August, and we in the Social Affairs Committee, like the Civil Affairs Committee, assume that the government will take the necessary initiatives in this regard. Today's case has been preceded by a solid investigation. Mr Westerholm mentioned what has happened for quite a long time. As I said, it has taken time. In 2013, the investigation started Increased opportunities for treatment of involuntary infertility. There was an interim report on assisted conception for single women in 2014, and this has now been carried out. In February 2016, the inquiry Various pathways to parenthood were submitted with its final report, and during the consultation period, the National Board of Health and Welfare investigated whether other health care establishments could be given the opportunity to carry out such treatments. In all these contexts relating to children, the most important thing is to consider children's perspectives and rights in the first place. Although parents'longing for children is strong, the child's interest must always be put first. It is therefore gratifying that the Government clearly states that it should closely follow up how the amendment is implemented and evaluate that it works in the intended way. The Government also notes that it is important for healthcare to create good conditions for research, especially with regard to consequences for children. Research currently available on, for example, growing-up conditions is limited, but there is evidence that lack of genetic link does not seem to adversely affect children's growing-up conditions. In the case of children born through surrogate motherhood abroad, it is of course equally important that the best interests of children are taken into account. The problems that have emerged have mainly been about long processing times when you come here with the child, which is due to Swedish authorities' uncertainty in how matters should be dealt with. According to the government, no child who has been born in this way and exists in Sweden has become stateless or orphaned, but it is obviously important to ensure that this does not happen and that the processing times are minimised as much as possible. It is therefore welcome that the Agency for Family Law and Parental Support is tasked with developing a knowledge base in these parts. The mission also involves examining whether, and in what way, these authorities should communicate knowledge to potential parents. The government argues that it is difficult to reconcile measures to facilitate surrogate arrangements abroad when the attitude is that such arrangements are not acceptable at home, even if it is requested by some who want to become parents. It is important that parental legislation is clear in situations for children after someone has changed gender. The study Various paths to parenthood states that the current regulation has led to uncertainty and difficulties in application. There are few cases before the courts, and in these cases it is the registration in the population register that has been examined, not the issue of parental rights. There is therefore a need for legal clarification. The Government's proposal creates clear and legally secure regulation for children. Mr President, I would like to With this decision, we will make it easier for more people to become parents. We protect the best interests of children and the right to share in their genetic origins. The rules of assisted reproduction are the same for same-sex couples as for different-sex couples. Swedish social welfare boards and courts have increased opportunities to establish paternity after surrogate arrangements abroad, and we create legal certainty for children after a parent has changed gender. These are welcome and important steps. But a bill doesn't solve everything. I am convinced that we will take more steps in the future. I call for the approval of the Government's proposal and for the rejection of all reservations.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-149	Mr President, I would like to By text messages, e-mails and not least comments on social media, I can see that many follow the debate, not least women who either have no uterus or who have had their uterus damaged due to cancer or cancer treatment. They have been told by the Swedish Democrats and now also by the Social Democrats that the door will be closed. There should be no possibility whatsoever to give treatment in Sweden. They should continue to rely on going abroad, that is to say those who have economic conditions. I would like to ask Kristina Nilsson's statement here in the speaker's chair, and not least from Minister Fritzon, that we must take account of the best interests of the children. I can understand the discussions about investigating women carefully, but as far as children are concerned, there is no doubt whatsoever. There is extensive research and follow-up that shows that these children are as loved as everyone else. These children get it at least as well as any other child. There is no indication that these children would have a more difficult upbringing. Why does Minister Fritzon and Member Kristina Nilsson say no and argue that surrogate motherhood should be prohibited in Sweden because they must take into account the best interests of children? It is a mockery of all the women who sit in this situation and know that their only chance is to go abroad that the Social Democrats and the Swedish Democrats are closing the door precisely in the interests of the children. What is it in reports, studies or research that you hang up the statement that it would be a threat to the best interests of children to allow altruistic surrogate motherhood in Sweden?
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-152	Mr President, I would like to I have great respect for people's childish desire. I also have great respect for the fact that Anders W Jonsson in his role as a doctor has met these couples, and I can understand the frustration one can feel because one cannot offer help and treatment. However, it is the task of health care to help as far as possible. Surrogate motherhood is not prohibited in Sweden, but the legislation that exists does not allow it to be done in Swedish healthcare. I think that several speakers before me have clearly stated why we do not think it is appropriate. So it's about women's bodies. Ensuring that surrogate motherhood is altruistic is difficult. What do we know about a family? You're happy to talk about sisters. What do you know about how the sister has been affected by friends, family and family? How can we guarantee that money is not involved? It's hard. Overall, the assessment is that we are not ready to allow such a thing in Sweden. We think that this proposal goes as far as we think it is right today to help childless couples become parents. I understand that there are worthy cases. For example, Anders Jonsson mentions not having your own uterus. It's worthwhile, but that's the assessment the government has made today, and I think it's right.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-155	Mr President, I would like to Much of the discussion is about women. There are a lot of reports that show that surrogate motherhood is a good method. But in New Zealand there was a case a number of years ago with a carrier army that actually killed itself. As a result, New Zealand considerably tightened up the routine of looking at the women who are prepared to carry another woman's child so that there is nothing in birth history or pregnancy history that speaks against. There the threshold has been raised well. So there's a discussion. However, my question specifically to Kristina Nilsson touched on the fact that the Social Democrats and the Swedish Democrats are telling the parents who are now listening to the debate that, in the interests of the children, we must put an end to surrogate motherhood. But there is nothing to show that the children would be worse off at all. Rather, it is the opposite. They're dearly beloved children. Moreover, they do not have the history of many adopted children, which makes them sometimes grow up tougher than others. It's not even here. Yet the Social Democrats and also the Swedish Democrats choose to say that it is the best thing for children to close the door here. The couples where the woman has an injured or missing uterus should continue to be referred to – if they have plenty of money – to go abroad and pay a woman to have the long-awaited child. What do you mean by the children's best interests do not allow these couples to become parents in Sweden? I'm interested in that. This is completely new in the debate. There is nothing in the international experience of those countries that have altruistic host motherhood that shows that children would be harmed. Where does that reference come from?
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-158	Mr President, I would like to Yes, Anders W Jonsson, I am not an expert in children's research or research on children's growing-up conditions. I think that Anders W Jonsson is much more knowledgeable than I am. The proposal we are discussing here concerns questions about how to ensure that children who come to Sweden after foreign surrogate arrangements get the most legal and safe handling possible. As I mentioned in my speech, it is about no one becoming stateless or orphan. That is what we are taking a stand for and regulating today. When it comes to surrogate motherhood, we do not think that we should change the legislation we have for Swedish health care today. Anders W Jonsson said in his speech that he is convinced that this will come. I am not so sure it will, but we will simply see who will be right in the future.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-161	Mr President, I would like to I was also going to take the opportunity to ask Kristina Nilsson what research and what good experiences you use to take no initiative in altruistic surrogate motherhood. Let me mention here that there is good research on this. There are good experiences. My colleague Barbro Westerholm from the Liberals raised the USA in his speech and clearly described the good examples from there, how it has been done there and how it is regulated there. In his speech, Anders W Jonsson highlighted New Zealand, where there is research and good examples from both children's perspective and surrogate mother's perspective. So there is research and good experience on how to have an altruistic surrogate motherhood that works. Yet the government and the Social Democrats choose not to take any initiative in this. Why?
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-164	Mr President, I would like to I thought I told you about it in the last line shift. The most important thing for me is this: how can you ensure that something is altruistic? How can you ensure that there is no money involved? How can you ensure that the woman has not been subjected to tremendous pressure, perhaps from her family or her entire family, to do so? I do not know if there is any research on it, because that is perhaps what happens inside the closed doors of the home. It must be extremely difficult to research and ensure. As I said in my speech, it is not a human right to have children. As mentioned earlier, there are opportunities to have children through adoption, for example. The position we are taking today is that we do not think that the legislation on Swedish health care should be amended.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-167	Mr President, I would like to I find it regrettable that the Social Democrats and the Government are not using the experience and research in this area in terms of surrogate motherhood and altruistic surrogate motherhood. I think it's really regrettable that you sound like you more or less think it can be one way or the other. There are, of course, research, reports and follow-up, from countries where it is legal and regulated. As I mentioned in my speech, I think it is a huge shortcoming of the government and its representatives to confuse altruistic surrogate motherhood with commercial surrogate motherhood. I think it's very regrettable. I also find it regrettable that a feminist government believes that women are not capable of making decisions about their own bodies – and if they could, they would probably make the wrong decisions, you can read between the lines, because they would be under pressure. I find that a sad position and a rather poor view of the woman's right and the ability to make decisions about her own body. Do you stand by that position? I can ask Kristina Nilsson because I have received answers to the previous questions. Do you stand by the view that women are not capable of making decisions about their own bodies and that if they can make the wrong decisions?
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-171	Mr President, I would like to There were a lot of questions at once. Regardless of Swedish legislation, couples go abroad and have children through surrogate arrangements. The bill that we are discussing today is about how to ensure the legal rights of these children. The preparation has not been about a major investigation of surrogate motherhood. These are difficult ethical and legal considerations. I know very well what is the difference between altruistic and commercial surrogate motherhood, but as I said before, I find it difficult to see how we can ensure that it is altruistic. I think it is very reasonable for a feminist government to make this position, because we want to ensure that women's bodies are not exploited in any way. Talking about volunteering when the woman may be subjected to massive pressure from her family, her family, I find difficult. It is very difficult to ensure this voluntary approach. As I said, this is the position taken by the government. I think that's good. We'll see what happens in the future.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-176	Mr President, I would like to Kristina Nilsson was clear that host motherhood is not prohibited in Sweden but is prohibited in Swedish health care. It raises the question of what we do if you arrange it yourself outside health care. We know that there are hemoinseminations and other things. If child desire is very strong and we put obstacles in the way of altruistic host motherhood in health care in Sweden, something will emerge alongside which we have very little transparency and where we are unable to create security for the children involved. As far as volunteering is concerned, I think that this is failing women's ability to make difficult decisions of their own. Here I think there is much to learn from the field of organ donation. We often see that the best donor of a kidney, a piece of a liver or other is a close relative. In this area, there is experience in how to ensure that it really happens voluntarily, because there are no minor interventions – although one can say that they are more short-lived than a pregnancy.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-178	Mr President, I would like to Barbro Westerholm says that something could grow along the way. I find it difficult to see that the decision we are now making somehow changes this so that something could emerge alongside more than it does today. The decision we are making today is, of course, about safeguarding the legal rights of the child. It does not change anything in substance on the issues raised by Mr Westerholm, so I do not really understand that question. Why should something more emerge alongside what has not already emerged, just because we are safeguarding the legal rights of children?
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-179	Mr President, I would like to I am thinking of the first three cases I encountered in 1985. That would have happened outside the health care system, and we have no idea about that. It is true that this has happened and exists, but that discussion has been absent on the question of host motherhood. The second point I would like to make is the information that this authority is going to give to couples who intend to enter a host motherhood in order to have a long-awaited child. We in the Liberals see it as very difficult to give that information in the light of what is in the bill and the debate we have had today. It risks becoming stigmatising. The last point I want to raise is that it is important that we now research and follow up on how things are going. Within this research, it is not least important to follow up on the progress of 50 children and families who become current in Sweden every year; there may be more. This is ethically difficult research, because it can also be ethically stigmatising. But with wise researchers assigned to carry out such a follow-up, I think we can get valuable results for the future. As I said before, the experience we have in this area shows that we are moving forward with increased knowledge. So far it has become yes on all assisted fertilization we now have in Sweden and which has developed since the mid-80s.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-183	Mr President, I would like to With regard to this matter of information, I mentioned in my speech that it is good that the Swedish Agency for Family Law and Parental Support is given the task of developing a knowledge base so that they can deal with cases where children who have been created through surrogate arrangements abroad come to Sweden. It is important that that process is completed. This may not happen many times in every social service, so you're not very good at dealing with it in all places. I therefore think this is a good thing. When it comes to parents who turn to social services with questions before a surrogate arrangement, it becomes a very tricky situation for social services. It is good to review whether and how such information should be provided. As Barbro Westerholm himself was at, parents solve this, whether they receive information or not. Is it right or wrong to give them information and in some way help with something that we do not want in Sweden? This is a difficult issue and involves difficult ethical considerations. I think it is good that the mission to the Swedish Agency for Family Law and Parental Support has come about so that you can look at these parts. Otherwise, I do not think that today's debate has given me any more reason to think that this proposal is not good as it is. I think the government has made a good consideration. It is appropriate that this is not prohibited but that it is also not implemented in Swedish healthcare today.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-186	Mr President, audiences, viewers and listeners! The red-green feminist government, as you now all know, is working systematically and purposefully to build a long-term sustainable welfare society. This is happening on many levels. We invest in new sustainable transport infrastructure, we stimulate the development of sustainable construction, we develop economic instruments that make it easier for citizens to make the long-term sustainable choices in their everyday lives. Preventing the occurrence of ill-health is, of course, also an important part of the construction of a long-term sustainable society. The Government has therefore also chosen to increase resources to the Public Health Agency and directs initiatives in the area of healthcare towards prevention. But, Mr President, not all parties have this ambition. In the eight years of the alliance government, the number of employees in welfare fell from 134 to 128 per 1 000 inhabitants – a reduction of 6 per 1 000 inhabitants or, if you like, a reduction of 4.5%. The years of the alliance were therefore worse for welfare than the extensive budgetary adjustment required by the country's finances and carried out in the 1990s, when the number of people employed in welfare was reduced by 5 per 1 000 inhabitants. Now, in just four years, the red-green feminist government has restored the removal of welfare by the alliance government, and the number of employees is even higher than in 2006 when it took office: 135 employees per 1 000 inhabitants or a staff increase of 5.5 per cent in just four years of red-green rule. This, Mr President, is proof that welfare is growing. Please note that these figures cover all employees of both private and public employers. But, Mr President, the Red Green Government is also reforming the legislation by modernising the laws so that they will work better in the long-term sustainable welfare society. It is therefore gratifying that the Social Affairs Committee supports the report and the Government's proposal for a law amending the parental code, the law amending the law on international paternity issues and the law amending the law on genetic integrity – complicated things! The Government's proposal means that in Swedish healthcare it will be allowed to carry out fertilization outside the body with donated germ cells, which means that the requirement for the future child to have a genetic link to at least one parent in assisted fertilization will be removed. The proposal also means that the rules on parenthood after assisted conception abroad are the same for divorced and same-sex couples, that parenthood can be established provided that the treatment has been carried out in a competent institution and that the child has the right to access data on the sperm donor, and that social welfare boards and Swedish courts, following a surrogate arrangement abroad, have increased opportunities to establish paternity according to Swedish law for the genetic father. In addition, specific rules on parenthood are introduced for situations where a person has a child after either or both of them have changed sex. This means, among other things, that a man who gives birth to a child is to be regarded as the father of the child and that a woman who contributes her sperm to the birth of a child is to be considered the mother of the child. The Government shares the assessment of the investigation that any proposal regarding surrogate motherhood within the framework of Swedish healthcare should not be presented. This is an issue that raises many difficult legal issues and requires moral balances that we may not yet be ready for. That is what this debate has essentially been about. The committee rejects the motions raised on the issue of surrogate motherhood, and I believe that this is a rather wise position at the moment. For many years, the Green Party has pushed the question that people who choose to live in relationships other than traditional heterosexual relationships should have more opportunities to form families with children without having to travel abroad or bluff with the real conditions before the authorities. I am well aware that altruistic surrogate motherhood has existed in Sweden for a long time and certainly does so even today, albeit to a very small extent. I met such a family myself for the first time in the early 70s. The couple and the host mother chose to travel abroad about a month before giving birth, which was one way of coping with what Barbro mentioned regarding the authorities' handling at the time. In this way, the Swedish authorities could be fooled. The other couple I met around the same time as Barbro, in the early 80's. Then they chose to do it in some way in Sweden, without the authorities being able to take away the family child, which could otherwise happen. I therefore know that this has happened, and although I do not myself have any later examples in my wide circle of acquaintances, I believe that this is happening even today. The fact that we environmentalists have chosen to follow the line proposed by the government, which is also the proposal of the investigation, seems to me to be well reflected by the reservations contained in the report. On the one hand, we have statements from women who want to help involuntary childless couples, which was raised by Anders W Jonsson in the previous exchange of words here. On the other hand, we have the risks that legalisation can open up to a market for so-called altruistic host mothers, which can, in the worst case, be subject to a market. In every area where we see a risk of market forces taking over, we know that rigorous and well-thought-out regulations are needed in order not to get big losers and put people at risk. There is already trafficking in children in the world, both for organ delivery and for adoption to families who can pay well to have children that they cannot have otherwise. The Green Party has chosen not to contribute to legislation that risks exposing women to an increased risk of exploitation in Sweden as well. I fully understand those athletes who want to open up to altruistic surrogate motherhood, but I, like my party and the government, believe that we do not have the basis for such legislation today. Nor is it proposed by the investigation. Before I finish, I would like to say a brief word about the debate and the debate technique. I've had it a few times myself. In this debate we received a flagrant example, where Anders W Jonsson twice claimed that Karin Rågsjö would have used the word I think it is very unfortunate, and I call on the President-in-Office to deal with this with the language of the House and to attribute to their opponents things that they have not actually said. I find this unfortunate for the way the debate in this House is developing. That is one of the messages I would like to pass on to Parliament after my 14 years here. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for the reservations to be rejected.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-201	Mr President, I would like to Much of this debate has come to be about precisely host motherhood or surrogate motherhood. It is about all the women in Sweden who have no uterus or have a damaged uterus and therefore cannot carry their own child. They are today referring to looking abroad, if they have money, and paying for a commercial motherhood. I am a little interested in what the Green Party really is doing on this issue, because we see a large number of environmental partners who are very committed to opening the doors so that these women can do this in Sweden instead of abroad. Member Jan Lindholm also describes that he himself knows several couples who have actually done this, but outside health care. Then he says that we in Sweden are not mature, and therefore it is wise not to make this decision. But now I'm just asking for it to be quite clear: Is the Green Party's position that the door should remain locked for women who have no uterus or have a uterus that is damaged by cancer treatment? They should therefore continue to rely on going abroad and paying another woman for large amounts of money. Is this, then, the Green Party's line on this issue? This discussion will, of course, be held until the elections, not least during the week of Pride and so on. This is, of course, an issue where there is an enormous commitment on the part of parents who have either undergone host motherhood or are now considering whether to go abroad and wondering if there is any other possibility for them. Three parties are now saying yes to this, but the Social Democrats, the Swedish Democrats and several others are saying no. It would be interesting, then, to make it quite clear where the Green Party stands on this issue.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-205	Mr President, I would like to Let me give a very brief answer to the question. We have a discussion on this in the party. I know there are many who think we could open up to host motherhood. Anders W Jonsson now knows that we have regulations for how we legislate in the country. This investigation has not provided any basis for this. At present, therefore, there are no conditions for legislating on this. I don't know where we're going to land on this. At the moment, however, we have no basis for taking a decision on this. What we highlight as our problem of host motherhood are the risks involved. Although I know of my own examples of how close friends can find relationships that are good, I do not know if, so to speak, there has been anything under the table in those cases. As some of the previous speakers have said, it is difficult to ensure that women are not exploited. Unfortunately, we have a society in which women are often exploited in different ways, and we do not want to contribute to this happening. That is why solid work is needed in which legislation can really be developed that ensures, with 100% certainty, that women are not exploited. On the day we get there, I think we can have this discussion constructively again.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-210	Mr President, I would like to That is exactly what the debate has been about. We are all well aware that Parliament cannot now decide to allow surrogate motherhood. But the proposal that now exists from three parties is about an announcement from the Riksdag in which we commission the government to investigate this issue in order to establish a functioning regulatory framework that allows the Riksdag to then decide that these families should not be forced to go abroad and pay dearly in order to have a child. That is the discussion we are having now: should the government be given this task or not? There are three parties who think that we in this House should give the government the task of carefully investigating this issue, so that this will be possible in Sweden too, and these families in future do not have to go to the USA, India, Thailand and so on and have a child for expensive money. We're going to open up that possibility here. I think Jan Lindholm is clear when he says that Parliament should not ask the government to investigate this issue. The Green Party does not even think it is clear enough that we should ask the government to investigate the issue, even though we know that a large number of environmental parties are involved in this and just as the Center Party, Liberals and Moderates think it should be obvious that this possibility should exist. Then we have the chance to ensure that it should not be about business deals or permits similar to prostitution, but it should be done under close control, where you both carefully investigate the childless couple and then follow the child, so that no one gets hurt. However, the Green Party is not prepared to do this, but on Wednesday the Green Party will vote against the government doing the solid work that later allows for legislative work.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-213	Mr President, I would like to I have already made this clear. We don't think the situation is ripe for that investigation yet.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-214	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Jan Lindholm. I can see how much you're waiting in your speech. I take it that you are thinking about what else you want to know in order to be able to take a definitive stand. I feel that you have not taken a definitive stand. On the other hand, your Member of the National Council for Medical Ethics, who after a few years of investigation and in-depth dives to obtain all the facts that could be obtained, had a positive attitude towards altruistic host motherhood but wanted to say clearly no to commercial. One of the reasons was that they did not want to force Swedish couples to use commercial host motherhood to satisfy their strong child wish. Childish desire is strong not least in women who have been born without a uterus or who have had their uterus removed in connection with cancer or any other health problem. I feel that you have a door open but that you need to go into various issues that you have still not clarified. I would be pleased to hear a few comments on that.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-216	Madam President, I would like I think Barbro Westerholm describes the situation quite well. In principle, we have a positive attitude towards altruistic host motherhood. It's just that we don't see the possibility today, and we think it's a pretty long way there. We are not sure that we can ever get there and that we can really get legislation, a regulatory framework, which makes it possible to guarantee that women are not exploited. That's the situation.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-217	Madam President, I would like Then we'll have to wait. It may happen that has happened with the previous questions about in vitro fertilization, insemination, egg donation and so on: that with increased knowledge the values change. You may put your feet down and, as we in the Liberals wish, open up to altruistic host motherhood where women's self-determination is very clear and respected.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-218	Madam President, I would like I don't really think it's about more knowledge, but I think it's about the society we live in. I believe that we need a society that is less market-driven, where people's economic drivers are less important and where basic security is much greater than it is today. In such a society, it may be possible to have a regulatory framework that does not allow women to be exploited in the same way as they do today. Unfortunately, however, we see developments moving the other way. Economic drivers are becoming more and more important to how people act. This means that women are also exploited in more situations than before. We do not want to contribute to that. So when it comes to the effective functioning of such legislation, it is not just about knowledge. It is also about where society as a whole is going.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-221	Madam President, I would like Let's change the subject quite radically, shall we say? Now we are talking about more building permits-free measures. It sounds like a title that obliges. It feels like the title covers more than it actually does. But that is not the name of both the bill and the report. Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Liberals' reservation to be approved, which raises the question that even patios should be free of building permits and that this issue should not end up in a long way. We can see that a large number of measures are already exempt from building permits. One can say that this is a development that started in 1979, when the People's Party housing minister Birgit Friggebo made proposals to build a complement building of 10 square metres without building permits. That's how the Friggebod was born. Since then it has to be said that the Friggeboden has been a symbol of freedom. In fact, it is possible to give people the responsibility to make certain decisions themselves, even in the case of buildings. There were many concerns and much criticism about this. It was thought that this would not work, but it has turned out that it has gone very well. Over time, many more areas have been granted building permits. The Friggebods have grown bigger. We've got an atte house, which is 25 square meters. Although they need a notification, they are still exempt from building permits. These are smaller extensions, roofs and roof cups under certain conditions. There are a great many examples today. We in the Liberals believe that the planning and construction rules in Swedish housing policy need to be reformed and, above all, simplified. This is, of course, a step in the right direction. The Alliance government put in a lot of work to get a lot of regulatory simplifications. During this term of office too, the Liberals, together with the majority in the committee, have supported a great deal of announcements on simplification of the Planning and Construction Act. When we talk about the Planning and Construction Act and simplified regulations, it is a lot about the rules around the planning work. It is about shortening the appeal proceedings and setting others, a little more flexible requirements. It is a matter of local adaptation to the protection of the beach, and that is why it is important, we believe from the Liberals, that this should be done within the framework of the general protection of the beach and in areas with low exploitation pressure. What we in the Liberals want to emphasise is, above all, that we should have predictability in the planning and building permits process, not least with regard to the time factor, so that it is not possible to delay a case indefinitely. Madam President, I would like That is why the Liberals naturally welcome this proposal. This is something that we also have in our proposal. In our draft budget, among other things, we are addressing this. It is a matter of not requiring a building permit to install solar panels and solar collectors on a building if they follow the roof contours and the other contours of the building. However, we can also note that the proposal contains a discussion on building permits for patios. It almost feels a little strange that that question is still lying around. In view of everything else that has been granted building permits, this feels like a marginal phenomenon, and it feels a little strange that you have not managed to get the regulations in place precisely when it comes to patios. But maybe it's a sin that we get to draw together somehow. Now there would be questions as to whether or not a notification would be necessary. It feels a bit like we have been put on a long bench for nothing when it comes to this issue. Various views have emerged from the consultation bodies, and the Government states in the proposal that the matter is being further addressed. That's good in itself, isn't it? Madam President, I would like As far as the Liberals are concerned, we feel that it is very important that we get an effective exemption from building permits as soon as possible, even for ordinary patios, and that this will come into place without it being put on a long bench. In other words, we believe that the current regulatory framework needs to be changed. As far as legal uncertainty is concerned, the objective of de facto exemption from this building permit must be clear. I assume that the Minister has no other point of view in this case. But, as I said, it must absolutely not end up on a long bench. I am thinking, not least, of what I referred to before: that there are many other measures that are actually covered by building permits today. Then this will be completely unjustified. It is to clarify what we have a reservation. Madam President, I would like A liberal policy, generally in this area, is much about freer rules and faster processes. It is basically a matter of simplifying housing construction, which in turn will lead to more and cheaper housing. However, exemption from building permits for solar panels is also intended to enable us to achieve sustainable fossil-free electricity production in the country. So that's a little bit of a double purpose. Although this may not dramatically increase housing construction, we fully support the decision and think it is a good thing.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-235	Madam President, I would like Of course, there is no question that is more important than how we are going to meet the climate challenge and create a more sustainable world. This report by the Committee on Civil Liberties, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which has been exempted from building permits, is a small but not unimportant step on the road to achieving the climate targets. Climate needs to be integrated into all policy areas and at all levels of society to steer towards a circular and bio-based economy without greenhouse gas emissions. As part of the government's efforts to simplify the regulatory system for building permits and relieve our building boards and the judiciary, as well as to facilitate and accelerate the transition to renewable electricity, we propose that the installation of solar panels and solar cells on buildings in detailed areas be exempted from the requirement for building permits in the Planning and Construction Act. The legislative amendments are proposed to enter into force as early as 1 August this year. The sun is there, regardless of human interference, and more and more people realize the benefits of harnessing its energy. Over the past month, many people have just installed solar panels that have been happy to see how the counters have been ticking with the many hours of sunshine. For the individual property owner it is positive that it will be as easy as possible to install solar cells. This means that more people will take the step. For municipalities, clarity and simplification are positive. It is better for officials to be able to guide interested individuals in the most appropriate and efficient way to install solar panels than to spend time on building permit applications. The Government's proposal can thus contribute to the achievement of the ambitious objectives of solar expansion. The industry estimates that the proposal will reduce the costs of installing a solar power plant for many property owners, which is expected to increase the rate of expansion. That is exactly what we government parties are seeking. Above all, it is good that the regulatory framework is now becoming clearer. There is no general building permit requirement for the installation of solar panels today, but installation may be subject to building permits in a detailed area if the measure means that the building, for example, changes paint or roofing materials. There is a lack of guidance and this proposal will increase the equivalence of assessments across the country after 1 August. Madam President, I would like For the sake of climate and regulatory simplification, I would therefore like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the motion.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-242	Madam President, I would like The assignment to Boverket is considerably broader than what is presented here regarding the exemption of solar cells and solar collectors from building permits. I would like to start by declaring that the Center Party is, of course, behind the regulatory simplifications, although there are more restrictions than I think should be necessary. Renewable electricity has a potential that can be exploited significantly more and is already on the rise. This will be further promoted. Madam President, I would like However, it is difficult to comment on proposals that are not made. Altans are one such building, as well as complementary and complementary residential buildings. It would have been welcome to take a position on this and, in particular, proposals for complementary residential buildings, because the need for more housing is urgent. Housing construction is declining now after increasing during the time of the alliance government. With a red-green government, the gap between the need and the number of available homes is greater than ever in modern times, and any small addition would be welcome. I therefore expect the Minister for Housing to explain, when he makes his ten-minute speech, his shortcomings and those of the government, because the gap between what would have to be built and what would actually be built was 15 000 homes in 2016 alone. It is a gap that according to the construction forecasts that we have seen will increase in 2018 and 2019. It does not become clearer how the combination of misdirected subsidies and measures in the financial field, such as amortisation requirements and other credit restrictions, stops construction and prevents new home buyers from making their home dreams a reality. Rule-simplification is the best way. However, the regulatory simplification ambition should also include the support and contributions that exist in connection with solar installations in private individuals. Rules should not be an obstacle to people's willingness to live climate-friendly. In order to motivate more people to invest in climate-smart alternatives, the Center Party proposes a green deduction. The deduction replaces today's targeted environmental aid and lowers taxes on solar cells, among other things, which we are discussing here today. We want to see more solar cells on the roofs and more charging boxes by the houses. We want to see climate-smart products and green technology solutions that are available to more people. They are supposed to be part of our everyday lives, which this government proposal facilitates. Difficult subsidies and long waiting times are avoided with a single green deduction made directly at the time of purchase. This will give us a further boost to environmental investments for which building permits are granted and will enable private individuals to do so. The green deduction lowers the thresholds for people to make the first green investment and is a carrot for more people to make the green transition that our climate and our dependence on electricity will need in the long term. It reduces the customer's cost directly at the time of purchase, you don't have to make a specific application and you don't have to wait for the authority to process the application. A green deduction is more flexible than current complicated grants and support for both households and public authorities, as the management of a number of existing aids disappears and there is an automatic deduction on the invoice instead of applying for the support from the Swedish Energy Agency and Boverket afterwards. If you own your home, the deduction shall include installation of solar cells, installation of solar heat, storage of energy, installation of charging boxes for electric cars both in your own home and housing associations, meters, control systems and mapping for more efficient energy use. It should cover 60 percent of the labour cost, i.e. double today's ROT deduction, plus a 60% reduction in the cost of materials up to a ceiling of SEK 20 000 for everything except energy storage. There it is set higher, to 50,000 kroner. The proposal involves an investment of SEK 550 million per year. Current complicated support is also limited by the fact that there is only one pot of money set aside. This means that those who want to make a climate-smart investment with the support of building permit exemptions cannot be sure that at the end of the year they will receive any support, because the money may be over. It will also be more generous than the industry itself has asked for. Madam President, I would like It is good that the rules for installing solar cells are facilitated. From our point of view, one can question why it has not been allowed in areas of national interest for total defence. The remaining municipal veto may also be called into question by allowing the exemption of building permits and by re-establishing the obligation of freedom in the detailed plan. However, we have not followed up on this, so we will have to stand our ground and support the Government's proposals. Current support for solar cells is still subject to regulatory constraints and is therefore inaccessible to many. I therefore hope that it will be addressed as soon as possible after the elections.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-257	Madam President, I would like As of 1 August, building permits will no longer be required to install solar cells or solar panels on the building. It is not a revolution, but it is a simplification in everyday life, a reduction in bureaucracy and an increase in freedom that facilitates the wider context: the transition to 100% renewable energy. The agreement on 100 percent renewable energy between the Green Party, the Social Democrats, the Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats is a historic and crucial agreement that creates long-term credibility and basis for investment in the important energy market, which has been demanded for decades in Sweden. So here we have a broad political platform that has been incredibly important, as I see it. The fossil fuels are coming out. Hopefully it'll be relatively fast. We know that they have damaged our planet to a great extent. The use of fossil fuels is at the root of the fact that we are now seeing an increasingly warmer climate on earth and that many of the planet's different species, both in the sea and on land, are at risk of being threatened as well as the possibility of a good life for us humans. Nuclear power, which was a long hope among many, is also on its way out. It has proved far too expensive. It is very difficult to invest in an energy type that has such high costs and that must be surrounded by so much security arrangements in order to be accepted in society at all. Not all safety risks have yet been resolved, especially in the case of waste. Solar energy, on the other hand, is becoming a real popular movement. Installing solar energy is profitable both for households and for society as a whole. The emphasis on increased support for investing in solar energy – we are now up to just over 1 billion in this year's budget – has also been important, although it is crucial that solar and wind energy today are among the most economic energy types. In addition, we know that the economy in terms of energy storage is greatly improving. There is an extensive development in the areas of batteries, hydrogen and other methods of storing solar and wind energy. This will also contribute to the growth of renewables and will provide a more stable basis for the energy system as a whole. The abolition of the building permit requirement is another step in making it easier and cheaper to produce your own electricity. The solar energy industry is now getting even better opportunities and is also hiring more and more people. The second context concerns the Planning and Construction Act and the work to make it easier and faster to move from thought to action in the construction of both housing and other things. During this parliamentary term, we have made a series of changes that make it easier for municipalities to produce plans and housing. The County Administrative Boards shall promote housing construction. Local authorities should be able to obtain advance rulings so that they do not spend their work and time unnecessarily. Further efforts are under way by strengthening and clarifying the master plans. We have also introduced a new rule which means that municipalities' fees must be reduced if the building permit is delayed. This, too, will hopefully lead to an increased interest in shortening the time of the building permit process. Extensive work is now being done to digitise the civil engineering process. This is the most important and comprehensive change we can make to reduce time and to streamline planning work and building permits. With common standards used by all municipalities and authorities, costs and time for handling at all stages are reduced. The bill – and the report – that Parliament is discussing today is the second in the Government's proposal to increase freedom for citizens by reducing red tape and unnecessary hassle. I agree with the committee's statement that this work must continue. For example, the work continues to see if we can't make the so-called attefallshusen a little bigger – going from 25 to 30 square meters I think is an interesting and good road. This would enable the houses to be more real and the visions of the bourgeois government, which have not been fulfilled at all, to a greater extent. But simplification must be done with care. Planning is important and necessary for us to have a good society and cities where we meet challenges such as sustainability and segregation. One aspect of this issue that has not been raised so much is that we have a situation in the municipalities with a lack of people and skills. Often it's hard to catch up with. New planning and permits are being worked on, and it will be particularly important to clear up issues that take hours but are not really reasonable to invest resources on. I also think that we should look at the issue of removing the requirement for building permits for solar energy for housing. This is something that is growing and that is taking more and more of the municipal resources into use. As of 1 August, when we get rid of this in the vast majority of cases, it will help to shorten the time so that the rest – and often more important – work can be done better.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-273	Madam President, I would like I note that the Minister of Housing did not use his ten minutes for the speech, which reduced my ability to prepare me, so let us not waste time! Madam President, I would like You can't live in a building permit exemption, no matter how much you want. However, this would make it easier for the homeless and those who have areas adjacent to their home that can be assigned to a person – for example, a student, a new arrival or a person who has got a job in another place – if one could easily make the necessary renovations and also rent out this home with some form of tax reduction. All of this is centre policy, and it would be welcome if these measures on supplementary housing and supplementary buildings could be brought to Parliament's table as soon as possible. But energy policy efforts are of course welcome and we fully support them. Peter Eriksson gave a long presentation of policy measures on which there is in fact full agreement in the Committee on Civil Liberties. This is even the case where there is an announcement from the committee based on the joint motions of the alliance parties. It is a good thing that the government implements alliance policy. Unfortunately, however, it has not produced any results on the housing market, as it has been combined with other measures that we will discuss many times in the run-up to the elections: misdirected subsidies, amortisation requirements and credit restrictions. This has caused housing construction to stop, which is extremely serious. Peter Eriksson also mentioned the lack of skills. It also makes sense to simplify the application procedure as regards the possibility of receiving subsidies for solar electricity and to apply a green deduction in the way I outlined in my main speech.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-279	Madam President, I would like I regret that Ola Johansson did not have time to prepare the debate; I hope it will be easier in the future. On my part, I think it is very good and important that we have a great deal of agreement on the issues of simplification. I feel that's the way it is. I have no problem at all in implementing the things that we have done here, which have been proposed from the beginning by alliance parties; be it the Center, Moderates, KD or the People's Party – or Liberals, they are called these days! It is excellent when there are good proposals. I am not as pessimistic as Ola Johansson when it comes to the fact that this has not had any effect. I think it has some significance that we can make things easier for people. If, for example, we can get a little bigger attefallshus as quickly as possible, I think that this will help to build more housing in Sweden, which would be very good. However, the fact that we are now building twice as much as in the last parliamentary term, when the Centre Party was able to influence these issues even more, is primarily related to other things. This has to do with the fact that we have a more active housing policy in general, that we in the municipalities have a completely different commitment and that we have incentives and measures from the government that support active work to develop new plans and more housing in the municipalities. This is, in general, the change that has taken place during this term of office. It is quite right that the amortisation requirement affects, but the big issue that is now causing some concern is that there is a wider range of housing.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-284	Madam President, I would like In some parts there is a great deal of agreement, and that is a good thing. But for us to achieve a real result in the housing market and in housing construction, fundamental and long-term cross-block reforms are needed; I believe that the Minister for Housing and I agree on that. We can also agree on the fact that the housing policy talks held last spring did not lead to any further results, even if we disagree on the reason for this. I usually say this about regulatory simplifications: they are important, but it's like trimming the sails. If you have trimmed sails, there are conditions for the ship to move, provided that it blows. The wind seems to have stopped considerably. Not even 5 billion in construction subsidies have achieved anything more than a light breeze. Instead, we see a housing market that seems to be coming to a halt over the next few years, just as we are standing here talking, and I regret that. I am, of course, looking forward to more debates on regulatory simplification and know that we will have one next week. I welcome that too. It concerns requirements for a detailed plan outside a planned area. It is also centre policy. I hope that together we can continue to achieve the necessary regulatory simplifications. A change in housing policy after the elections, with real reforms, will create the conditions for a little wind in the sails now that we have tuned them together.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-289	Madam President, I would like The fact that we have doubled the production of housing and construction during this parliamentary term compared with the previous one is not because we have been sitting with our arms crossed, but because we have a more active housing policy now than we have been in the past. There is concern on the market today, especially in the area of housing rights and especially in the Stockholm region. This is essentially due to the fact that there is a very large range of right-of-occupancy apartments, especially in the premium and upward price categories. However, I am not at all as worried as Ola Johansson that the market in Sweden as a whole will stop completely. It is not as long as we have an active policy to steer over to more rental housing, because more rental housing is most needed, especially for young people and for people who have come to Sweden and who are not able to get loans for several million SEK. The risk at this point is that we will have a new government that will remove the incentives now available to do exactly what is necessary in the housing market, i.e. to build more rental housing at reasonable cost. This creates the investment aid we have today. It is already 12 000 – 13 000 homes that have been granted aid, and there will be more because we now see that big cities like Uppsala and Stockholm are also investing in using investment aid to build more rental apartments.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-292	Madam President, I would like Perhaps I made it a little easy for myself in my speech by making what the report is about into a plan and construction law issue. Then the debate has also been extended to a little more energy policy, and the energy agreement has come into play. As I said in the speech, we in the Liberals think that this is a great measure, because we see no contradiction between renewable energy and, for example, nuclear energy. Fossil-free electricity production is what we need to cope with the climate threat. That is an absolute necessity. What we are clear about, however, is that it should take place in more marketable forms and that the energy law should compete with each other based on its own strength. In terms of profitability, there are now quite strong subsidies for the installation of solar panels. It is even the case that this has been questioned by the industry, because by applying for subsidies it slows down the installations. Now we get a simplification on 1 August on the building permits page, and that's great. But the subsidy system itself slows down with the fact that you have to apply and wait for a reply to your subsidy application. You can build as a private individual, but there will still be a legal problem about this. According to the information I have seen, it is quite profitable to set up solar panels today without subsidies. How long does the Minister think we need to subsidise this type of energy? From the Liberals' point of view, we should not really have decided on this from the outset.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-296	Madam President, I would like I thank Lars Tysklind for the question. The foundation is actually a big investment that was made in Germany a few decades ago. The Greens in the German Government pushed for support for the development of solar and wind energy. It was German energy consumers who paid for the investment, but we have all enjoyed it on the whole planet. Subsidies can sometimes be very important for developing new and strong ideas, inventions and systems. I would not say that is the case today in this market, because solar energy is already profitable today. But the government's effort is about speeding up progress. We now also see that this is a rapid development. Setting up solar cells is becoming a popular movement, and it strengthens Sweden and the energy market. Especially in the light of the fact that we are also seeing developments in energy storage, this will be a very important part of the Swedish energy system in the future, as is already the case in several other countries, such as Germany and others. Together, hydropower, solar energy and wind power become a very strong base, and biofuels also for that matter – I look at the Center here – in the Swedish energy system.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-300	Madam President, I would like It will be interesting to discuss water operations and hydropower tomorrow. There may be a link to this in the case of renewable energy and both sides and front pages of it. I think the Minister is putting his head on the nail a little bit when he says that solar cells are an established technology today. In order to overcome the threshold, so to speak, it may of course require support for research and that part. However, when we have an established technology today, we think it is directly wrong to continue subsidising it, because it is a technology that could live entirely on its own merits. I would like to take this opportunity to ask another question. The figure of SEK 5 billion for housing subsidies was mentioned. In some way, the sum itself justifies the construction of a certain number of apartments. But is there any evidence at all of how much would have been built without the subsidies? From the Liberal side, we have totally opposed this. We think it only distorts the market and is cost-driven. Can the Minister really show that this SEK 5 billion has achieved the result that was claimed here in the debate?
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-303	Madam President, I would like To prove in retrospect what it would have been like if everything had been different is sometimes a bit difficult. But I can say that I know that there are a lot of homes around Sweden that had not been built without investment aid. For example, I have been in Jokkmokk looking at new homes, beautiful, which have been built with the help of the investment support and which were fully booked at once when the construction was completed. It was 25 years since the last building in Jokkmokk. There is a great need for housing around Sweden, even in smaller towns, because urbanisation is ongoing. Support is needed to develop rental levels that are reasonable in a situation where housing costs for newly built dwellings in Sweden are a little too high. As much as 5 billion a year, we're not betting. We have 3 billion in the budget for investment aid. This initiative supports a change that means lower building costs. The positive thing about investment support is that we get a strengthening of the companies that build houses at lower costs in a sustainable way, to a large extent with wood constructions.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-306	Madam President, I would like Then we have come to the debate on the bill on more modern adoption rules. It is the second issue today that is very much about children and children's rights. This report contains many proposals, which are also long awaited by many. It contains a lot of good things. For example, it introduces that adoption decisions should pay particular attention to the child's need for adoption and that the child should be more involved in the adoption process. These are legislative changes aimed at strengthening the child perspective and creating better conditions for an effective procedure that meets high standards of legal certainty. But everything the government puts in under the favorite concept is not for the best interests of the child. The starting point of the Christian Democrats is that adults do not have the right to children but that children always have the right to parents. In cases where, for some reason, a child cannot grow up with his or her biological parents – the parents may have died or not be able to care for their child – it is the responsibility of society to find a new, stable family environment for the child so that the child can have the security, care and love to which all children are entitled. Children without biological parents for whatever reason are naturally in a particularly vulnerable situation compared to other children. It is therefore of the utmost importance that all laws relating to children, not least with regard to adoption, should be based on a strict perspective on children's rights and not on an adult perspective. Madam President, I would like I will raise the points where we Christian Democrats believe that the government has not had enough or not had the best interests of the child in mind. I will begin with the changes concerning the possibility for cohabiting couples to adopt. Several consultation bodies and also an expert in the investigation, Maarit Jänterä-Jareborg, professor of private international law and international procedural law at the Department of Law at Uppsala University, point to the reasons why this change should not be made. It is not because cohabiting couples are not common or because children who grow up with cohabiting parents are not well off or because cohabiting parents are not good parents, but because the adopted children are in a more vulnerable situation and because we know that legal security and the likelihood that the parents stick together are greater when the parents are married. In addition, it is contrary to our commitments in the Hague Convention. Let me also point out that contrary to the Moderner Adoption Rules; SOU 2009:61, which preceded the bill, the government proposes that married and cohabiting couples be able to adopt alone if the other intended parent is permanently prevented from adopting because of mental illness or because it is in an unknown place. The government has chosen a different path from the investigation's proposal. It is not a question of all adults with mental illness being unfit as parents. However, when a person is deemed unfit as a parent due to mental illness, it is wrong to allow the other parent to adopt alone. Similarly, if the other intended parent has deviated or cannot be found. The child is in a vulnerable situation. This change is being made to meet the longings of adults, not children's rights. The investigation also wanted to go in the opposite direction than the government is now proposing and to make changes in these respects even in the case of married couples. I have already mentioned that it is a good thing that the child's right to speak in the adoption investigation is strengthened. We believe that we should go further and give the child the right to also speak before a court if the child's age makes it possible and the case goes to court. This right is not being introduced, and we think it should. We would also like to see specific rules for adult adoption. Many times it is about children who have grown up in a family home where a family home parent wishes to adopt the child in adulthood. Since there has been a special bond between the one who was then a child and the one who was a family parent, we believe that it should be allowed to adopt alone even if it is in a relationship. If the family home parent is in a new relationship, it is not obvious that the new partner, who does not have a bond with the child, wants to adopt. When it comes to adult adoption, we think it would be the right way to go. Otherwise, in the case of family homes, we believe that adoption should be considered to a greater extent than today when it is in the best interests of the child and increases the child's right to a stable family environment and security. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats also believe that it is time to increase the adoption allowance. When it was introduced, it accounted for about half of the costs of adoption, but today it is less. In our budget, we have therefore financed an increase in the contribution from SEK 75 000 to SEK 90 000. We also believe that it is high time to strengthen the mission of the new authority for family law and parenthood, which has taken over responsibility from the former authority Mia, to support those who have been adopted in the search for their roots. Madam President, I would like Of course, I support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation no. 3.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-324	Madam President, I would like The adoption rules of the future must take account of the different circumstances of the modern family. Strengthening the child's best interests should always be the obvious starting point. The proposal has many good proposals, but at the same time I think that the most consideration has been given to the nuclear family and not to today's different family constellations. The primary thing must be that the child has a safe upbringing regardless of the family composition. Throughout childhood, children depend on parents or other adults to take responsibility for having a secure and stable life with someone who loves, protects and cares for them. The starting point for more modern adoption rules and for changes in other legislation must ensure stronger protection for children against harm. This requires a legal system that, in the case of, for example, custody disputes and custody, is based on the child's needs now and in the future. Madam President, I would like Each year, thousands of children are cared for for for various reasons, either by coercion or voluntary action. Usually it will be placed in institutions or in family homes. The idea of placements is that they should be temporary and that the children should be reunited with their biological parents. Unfortunately, the reality is different. Many of the children placed are moved between their biological parents and various family homes, and this may occur several times during the child's childhood. There are cases where children have been relocated some seventy times. I myself have been chairman of the Social Welfare Board in Helsingborg and have experience of a number of relocations. It has often been devastating for the children concerned. Based on this experience, I believe that younger children who have been placed for more than two years should be subject to some form of adoption trial to have a safe upbringing. During my twelve years as an active member of the Social Welfare Board, officials never suggested that anyone could be examined for adoption. Adoption is simply a question that is not being asked today. Adoption could be the best for the child but is perceived in Sweden as contrary to the idea that children should always and at all times return to their biological parents. In Swedish practice, this parental right to the child outweighs the child's right to parents. I think that is the wrong starting point. Guidance must be provided so that social services can and should pay attention to the possibility of national adoption for children who are or may be placed in family homes. The National Board of Health and Welfare believes that adoption can be an option for a small group of children, especially younger ones, who are or will be family homes – children who lack parents in life and children who are placed as infants and cannot live with their biological parents. Both the 2008 adoption investigation and the 2015 compulsory care investigation provide support that there may be reason to raise the issue of adoption in more cases than is currently being done. Despite this, nothing happens. The issue has now become part of the government's work on social care for children and young people. Every day that goes by, children are put in a lot of trouble because of the government's slow action. Research has been carried out in Denmark to compare adopted children, family homes and children returning to their homes. The results clearly show that adoptive parents seem to be able to create good conditions for a safe and stable upbringing, and children develop well physically and show good results in school. As far as international adoptions are concerned, I think that the government should investigate how to improve the work of adopted persons' right of origin and in terms of support and training for adoptive parents, which we can compare with family home parents. Since 2003, same-sex couples have had the opportunity to become adoptive parents, but only a few children have yet been mediated through international adoption to same-sex couples. When the Agency for Family Law and Parental Support asks foreign authorities about the possibility for same-sex couples to adopt in the different countries of origin, the answer has so far in all cases, except from South Africa and Colombia, been that this is not possible. In the case of national adoptions, apart from related adoptions, there have been only a few cases where children have been adopted to same-sex couples. The adoption opportunities of benevolent couples need to be clearly improved. Efforts are needed to strengthen the possibilities for both national and international adoption. Madam President, I would like The scope for recognising a foreign adoption decision following a surrogate arrangement abroad seems to be limited. The same applies to a Swedish court's ability to examine an application for adoption before the child comes to Sweden. There are also no guidance decisions on adoption following a surrogate arrangement abroad. In this area too, the legal situation must therefore be seen as unclear. Today, many children are unlawful during the process, which can last for up to six months, and this is not acceptable. In this case too, the government should review the issue of adoption and related adoption based on the child's interest in legal parents and security as well as the specific circumstances of surrogate motherhood abroad. Madam President, I would like I support all the reservations of the Moderates, but for time winning, I only plead for reservations 5 and 10.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-341	Madam President, I would like Let me start by being clear. It is our view that all children should have the right to a safe upbringing, and this security is best created within a family. For those children who for some reason lack a family, adoption is an opportunity for greater security during childhood. We do not believe that the proposal goes far enough to facilitate domestic adoption. All too often, children who have no family of their own are placed in institutions or other types of homes when the optimal place for the child should be to be adopted by couples who want to become parents of the child. Even well-functioning institutions find it difficult to match the security of a well-functioning family, and the child's need to feel involved and loved is easily forgotten. We would like to see far-reaching proposals on how domestic adoptions are to become more common so that more children who are completely without a family themselves will experience the security that it can bring. Here the child perspective must prevail over socialist locks that advocate institutions for education, so that society supports the child and gives it the opportunity to live in a family. Madam President, I would like Another part that we feel is missing from the bill is information for people who are having an unwanted pregnancy and information about adoption instead of abortion. The information that it is possible to adopt your child after birth rather than have an abortion for those who so desire should be routinely given to women seeking for unwanted pregnancy. Normally, a pregnant woman is informed that she is able to give birth or, if the pregnancy is unwanted, of the possibility of having an abortion. No real information about the possibility of giving up the child is normally given, even if it is clear that the pregnancy is unwanted. As a spokesperson for the Government, Åsa Regnér has previously pointed out on a written question that information on adoption is likely to lead to a restriction in Swedish abortion law and that this is why such information should not be given routinely to women seeking help for unwanted pregnancy. We do not share this view but believe that women are normally able to handle neutral information about all possibilities, and then make decisions according to their own unique situation. On the other hand, deliberately withholding information, as the government advocates, in order to lead a patient towards a particular solution, we find it morally reprehensible. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to endorse our reservation 6.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-350	Madam President, I would like Much of the approach to adoption is a remnant of old age, and the view of children's rights has changed, as have the reasons for adoption, where involuntary infertility is a reason. To be allowed to adopt should not be so difficult as to prevent the desire for children from being realized or to deny children the right to grow up in a safe family with parents who can give them the love and care they need. Views of who is a suitable parent should not be preconceived and old-fashioned values of parenthood, marriage or gender identity. The view of the nuclear family is changing, and the desire for children should be independent of age, sexual orientation and gender identity. The child's right should always come first, whether it is related adoptions, international adoptions or adoptions as a result of family home placements. The proposed modernisation of adoption rules is, of course, welcome. The investigation on which the changes were based was set up by the former alliance government. The report was submitted in 2009, and it has taken a long time to get to where we are today. It is good that the Riksdag can make decisions, although there is reason to regret the government's low ambitions for adapting legislation to an up-to-date view of family constellations and children. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, there are still few countries whose authorities approve of the adoption of children by same-sex couples. Unfortunately, it is also difficult in our country, the related adoptions exception, for same-sex couples to adopt. The Government's proposals contain too little ambition in terms of increasing opportunities for the adoption of same-sex couples nationally and internationally. A joyful development in attitudes to love, children and parenthood has nevertheless enabled couples to have children through assisted fertilization with donated germ cells by getting help in Swedish hospitals. Unfortunately, the government is not prepared to take the step further and allow assisted conception with an altruistic surrogate motherhood, which means that a person voluntarily and without compensation bears and bears a long-awaited child for a couple who are not on their own and with their own body are able to become parents. Many turn abroad to become parents in this way. That is why, among other things, the Center Party and the Moderates want to push forward to facilitate such adoptions, so that in a same-sex couple one can feel confident that even in a formal sense one's children can become one's common child if it was created by surrogate motherhood in an altruistic way. That is why, Madam President, I support the reservations of the Moderates, the Center Party and the Liberals in that part. The understanding of the importance of the child's consent and the importance of children's views has also changed considerably over the years. The same applies to children's understanding and ability to express a will even at low ages. Unfortunately, there is still an obsession with age that feels untimely. It is about children's views on issues that are vital not only for themselves but also for their potential future parents and their biological parents. We believe that the child should always be given an opportunity to express his or her opinions regardless of age and that he or she should be given great importance. That the best interests of the child should always come first and that the child has the right to express his or her opinion on all matters relating to it comes from the Convention on the Rights of the Child. We find it sad when this is not reflected in Parliament's decision on more modern adoption rules. The Center Party criticises the government for putting forward proposals that do not comply with the Convention on the Rights of the Child; in many cases, it is still seen primarily in the interests of biological parents rather than of the child. Adoption should in more cases be considered for children who otherwise need to be housed. This may seem drastic from the perspective of biological parents, but social services should be given stronger support in order to be able to choose this option because in the long term it will be better for both the child and the parents. The right of the child to know his or her origin does not conflict with a parental right to always regain custody of a child who is at risk of growing up under difficult circumstances. Madam President, I would like With this, I am in favour of reservation 5 from the Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats, as well as reservation 10 from the Center Party, the Moderates and the Liberals. I would also like to state, of course, that I support the other demands of the joint follow-up motion of the Center Party and the Moderates on this issue.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-363	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 7. For time to come, I do not support the other reservations of the Liberals, but of course we fully support all our reservations. We Liberals know that families can look different. We want a modern family policy based on freedom of choice that increases equality. Equal parenting is good for children, good for the family and also good for society. We are discussing here today a new law on adoptions. From a liberal point of view, every child has the right to a family. Therefore, the Liberals in general welcome the proposal in the bill, which modernises adoption rules and adapts to the very different nature of families. The proposal put forward by the government means, among other things, that several proposals from the Liberals are now being implemented, including that cohabiting couples should have the same conditions to adopt as married couples. However, we see some shortcomings in the Government's proposal and have therefore reserved ourselves on a number of points where we have our own proposals instead. The first is the right of children to speak. The new law does not guarantee the right of children to express their views on adoption. On Wednesday, I will be standing in this speaker's seat again and talking about the Convention on the Rights of the Child as a law, something that the Parliament will hopefully and in all probability support later that day. This is something that we Liberals have been pushing for a long time. Article 12 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child states the right of children to express themselves and their right to participation. Children who are able to form their own opinions should be free to express themselves on all matters relating to the child. Even small children can do this if they are asked the right way. Then you look at the age and maturity of the children. This needs to be made wider. We Liberals have been running it for a long time. We think that the hearer of children should always be trained to hear children, and we have exercised that on other occasions. In order for the child to have the opportunity to be as involved as possible, the children's opportunity to be heard must also be broadened. It can be done through representatives, through court proceedings or through administrative procedures relating to the child. The government wants to strengthen children's right to speak in the adoption investigation with its new legal regulation, but only the applicant and the child's parents should be given the opportunity to speak. Swedish law should be able to guarantee the best interests of children by enabling them to be heard throughout the adoption process. Children must also be given the right, if they so wish, to give their opinion before a court which is required to take a decision on adoption. Critics of the proposal believe that such a provision will rarely be used. But not least in view of the forthcoming decision on Wednesday on the Convention on the Rights of the Child, this should be self-evident, whether it concerns 1 000 children, 10 children or 1 child; for the individual child it is important. Madam President, I would like We in the Liberals believe that those children who so desire should be given the right to be heard in the face of such a vital issue as adoption. True, it is hard to appear in court, and it is even more stressful for those under 18, but that is no reason to prevent the child from doing so. Instead, it should be possible to ensure that it is done in a safe environment and that there are revised guidelines on how to implement it. The second is the adult adoption thing. There are specific regulations to that effect, and we welcome that. However, there are reasons for continuing to consider the legal framework for those who apply for adoption by someone else in adulthood. A situation that is not unusual is that a person who has grown up as a family home wants to be adopted by his family home parents as a way of legally confirming what you already feel in your heart: that this is your family. However, if a former family home parent later in life is part of a new relationship, an adult adoption is only permitted if both persons adopt. This is probably a bit strange for those applying for an adult adoption, since they have not grown up with the parent's partner. We believe that the rule that couples are only allowed to adopt jointly is not as justified in the case of adult adoption. Consideration should be given to whether, in specific cases, it should be possible for an adult to apply for adoption by only one person in a relationship, provided that the partner gives his or her consent. We Liberals have also supported reservations that will make it easier for same-sex couples to adopt and that children who have been born through host motherhood will be able to have both parents as guardians through the next-line adoption. However, I am going to go into another question, which I think has a flawed answer in the report. It refers to ongoing work, but this particular issue I have raised on several occasions without actually getting an answer – it is forgotten. The UN Convention on Human Rights states that every adult has the right to have children. It is a position that has been taken to prevent forced sterilisation. The right to become a parent applies to everyone, including people with cognitive disabilities, and that should be the case. However, those who have a cognitive disability often need more support in parenting for the children's sake. Young adults with cognitive difficulties, such as an intellectual disability, an acquired brain injury or a neuropsychiatric disability within the autism spectrum, such as Asperger, often do not have the ability to care for a child on their own. Many people also find it difficult to accept this and accept that they need extra support, but the responsibility for seeking and receiving support lies in many ways with the individual himself. Today, there are no national guidelines to stick to for a person with cognitive difficulties who is expecting a child. This is something that we Liberals have called for in previous motions and on other occasions. There is also very little research in this area. We know that there are those who are capable of parenting, but we also know that there are those who do not. Knowledge of what it means to have a parent with cognitive disabilities must be increased. This is particularly true in schools and preschools, where these children are often left out. They are bullied and, for various reasons, find it difficult to pass school. Research shows that 42 percent of the children of parents with mental retardation are themselves delayed in their own development without having their own mental retardation. However, since it is only when parents fail in their parental role that social services have a responsibility, it has often gone far too far before the children get the help they need. There should be mandatory support once a pregnancy has been identified, but it is lacking. For children, this support needs to be available throughout childhood. An estimate suggests that about 1,400 children are born to parents with cognitive disabilities every year, and somewhere between 40 and 60 percent of those children are placed in community care — some throughout their childhood. This is where this report comes in, because by having better investigative instruments and clearer procedures, social services could be given early tools to identify in which cases there will be no conditions for the child to grow up with his or her biological parents. Support for parents and information on the possibilities of still being part of the child's network could create the conditions for more domestic adoptions and thus make the child's upbringing more secure. Madam President, I would like These are children whose voices are almost never heard. Today, family law is based on the interests of parents. We Liberals want to reverse this; we want the child's best interests to be taken as a starting point. There are a lot of people talking about a child's perspective, but it's an upper-level perspective where the adult world really only admits that there are children too. We need to talk about children's perspectives and start from the child. That is why we Liberals are so stubbornly highlighting the perspective of children's rights in our motions, and we will continue to do so.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-381	Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the report. One news that comes in the government proposal is that cohabiting couples are now given the opportunity to adopt. This has already been possible in some cases, but now this possibility is being opened up in general. We can see that the possibility already exists in Denmark and Norway. We can also see that most children born in Sweden today are born within a cohabiting family, so it is nothing new that children grow up with cohabiting parents. In some cases the parents marry after the children have arrived, and in some cases they live their lives together. We have already allowed assisted fertilization in the case of cohabiting couples in the past, so this is in line with it. It goes without saying that not all countries will accept this in international adoptions, but the same applies, for example, to same-sex couples applying for adoption internationally – not all countries accept it, but it is an important position of principle from our horizon that we do not want to exclude all these people in advance as if they were not good enough parents. It is difficult to look at general statistics, because it is true that there are fewer that differ from cohabiting couples that disintegrate. But there are also a lot of cohabiting relationships that are very stable and good for the children, and therefore it is wrong to exclude cohabiting couples on that basis. It is therefore an important opportunity that is now being opened up. Another point we stress is the perspective on children's rights. We now make it clear that the child will receive information throughout the adoption process when the child is involved in an adoption. The child should also be able to express his or her views. The views of the child shall also be taken into account, taking into account the age and maturity of the child. From the age of 12 onwards, adoption requires the consent of the child himself. When it comes to national adoptions, that is, within Sweden, the general rule is that parental consent is required. There are, however, exceptional rules today. With regard to the discussion about increasing national adoptions, we can see that there is quite a lot of work going on with the government. There was a proposal for consensus solutions from the 2015 Forced Care Investigation to inform those who want to adopt their own children about the possibilities to do so. In the case of children who have been placed in family homes, it is also important to promote the voluntary adoption of these children. The basis, however, is to do so primarily on a voluntary basis and with consensus. There is also work in progress on open adoptions, and I think it is an interesting opportunity. It is a question of the child still being able to continue to meet his or her biological parents in so far as they are available, and it can be a very good opportunity for the whole family. It is therefore something that needs to be looked at more closely, and the government is working on this within the framework of social care for children and young people. Generally speaking, when it comes to national adoptions, there is legislative work going on, and although these are very important issues, and although I think that we should promote national adoptions, it is important to see that the individual case is unique. The best interests of the child in the individual case still have to be determined. There are cases where, for example, children have been associated with their foster home family and view them as their family, and where it may be appropriate to adopt or at least to transfer custody. Similarly, there are cases that are the other way around, where it is questioned that the children have been placed and perhaps the original family should have been better supported instead. It should also be borne in mind that it is primarily in the case of small children that national adoptions can be envisaged, since the process of connecting children to their parents usually takes place before the age of four. It can make it very difficult for the child to accept a new family and new parents after that age. There are strong ties to the biological family. Of course, the main rule is that children should grow up in safe and stable conditions, and we must always start from that. As regards adoption generally in international circumstances, this year's budget proposal states that there is a need to adapt adoption activities and support for international adoption. The government will therefore come back on these issues. Even in these cases, it is a question of the child's best interests in the individual case being the main rule, and in each case of international adoption there should obviously be a very careful examination that the child really gets the best growing-up conditions. Today, consent investigations, as it is said, are being conducted at the Social Welfare Board. Thus, even before an international adoption, it is agreed that it is a suitable family. It is important that the approval investigations are of high quality and that there are not too large differences across the country. Finally, it is now simplifying for children who have been born in other countries and then come home to their parents. It could be adoption, surrogate motherhood, assisted conception, and so on. This is not just a matter of surrogate motherhood – we are generally opposed to it, but children need legal parenthood. They need their parents here in Sweden. From a child's perspective, we therefore want to strengthen children's rights there. But this also applies to children who have been created by assisted conception. A same-sex couple who, for example, live in Norway and move to Sweden has previously had to start over from square one. They are therefore parents of the child in Norway, but in Sweden they have to undergo an adoption investigation. The bill makes it possible to recognise the foreign adoption decision.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-392	Madam President, I would like As I mentioned in my speech, the proposal to allow cohabiting couples to adopt is contrary to the 1996 Hague Convention. It was ratified by Sweden and incorporated into the legislation. In just a few days' time, we will also decide to incorporate the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Both these conventions aim to strengthen children's rights, particularly in situations where it is needed and where children's interests are opposed to adults' interests. So now we have a convention which we have incorporated and which the government chooses to withdraw, and we will soon incorporate another. This makes one doubt: how will a social democratic government in future actually protect children's rights when, in situations where interests are opposed to each other, one chooses to go adult affairs? My second question is: how does it strengthen children's rights to allow cohabiting couples to adopt? As I heard in the speech, this issue is not at all about children's rights, but about adults' wishes and choices of life and what would be good for adults. But from the child's perspective: In what way is it better for the child to choose not to marry so that the child does not get the increased legal security that a marriage entails?
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-395	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that the possibility of same-sex adoption is also contrary to the Hague Convention. Nevertheless, we have introduced this because it is important to us in principle. Then it means that in the countries that are party to the Hague Convention, there is no automatic right for those families. There are limited possibilities. It may well be so with cohabiting couples as well. It will be countries that say no. But that should not prevent cases in those countries that accept cohabiting couples. It is also important for children who grow up with cohabiting couples in Sweden in the same way as with same-sex couples. It will be a recognition that their families are as good as other families. There is no basis for children to have a worse time with couples compared to married parents. It is the individual circumstances that determine. An adoption process is often a long process that has perhaps been preceded by attempts on in vitro fertilization and other things. Often it takes a very stable relationship to go through the whole process. There is a strong child's desire in combination with a strong relationship. Therefore, it would be wrong to exclude the whole group of people that cohabiting couples mean. We can see how common it is in Sweden today and how many are excluded only on that basis. That is why we believe that in each individual case it should be tested on the basis of the best interests of the child. When it comes to adoptions, we allow adoptions only in cases where children will have the absolute best growing-up conditions in Sweden. We see it as an opportunity not only for childless people in Sweden but for children from other countries in this case to have a good life in Sweden. Then it will take a lot to completely exclude and discriminate against such a large group.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-400	Madam President, I would like Surely there are many children in the world who need parents. But the number of children that are available for adoption to Sweden is, as I am sure Hillevi Larsson also knows, considerably less than the number of Swedish couples who wish to adopt a child. That this change would mean that more children could be adopted to Sweden does not really rhyme with how we know the reality looks. It is worrying to hear that the Social Democrats believe that if conventions that we have signed and even ratified are not appropriate, they are also not prepared to comply with them. It takes some of the point of signing conventions that are designed to strengthen rights, and in this case it is about children's rights. I agree that there are many cohabiting couples who can be excellent parents. That is not what the question is about. It is about children who have already been taken away from parents and who cannot grow up with their parents of origin having as stable and safe an environment as possible. It is about the rights of these children and not about the fact that the parents' situation or the family situation of others might be established in some way. I do not believe that there would be a stigmatisation of cohabitation in our country today. But we know that there is a big legal difference in the security of children if something happens to their parents or to their parents' relationship. It is precisely because the child should have the extra security in the vulnerable situation you already have when you are adopted. I will return to the question: In what way is it better for adopted children that parents can choose not to marry? It's still a choice that adults have. If you're a common-law spouse, you can get married.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-405	Madam President, I would like We have signed not only the Hague Convention but also the Convention of the Council of Europe. It recognises the opportunity for cohabiting couples to adopt. It is also the case that the Hague Convention was written 25 years ago when it was another time. The valuations were different here in Sweden as well. To just say no to this possibility on that basis feels obsolete. As far as the safety of children in cohabiting relationships is concerned, we have gone quite far through legislation precisely to ensure the safety of children. We have the right to inheritance and maintenance for the children if there is a separation or a death. There is also the possibility for the parent that the child may mainly live with to keep the dwelling. There is a possibility for common-law couples to establish mutual wills. But it mainly concerns the property relationship between the couple, because the child has the right of inheritance. There is also a maintenance obligation in case of separation that benefits the child. The child has great rights even with a common-law couple. On the other hand, it can be said that the individual cohabiting partners do not have equal rights even if they can get around a large part of this with a will and a common-law agreement. But from a child's perspective there is great security for the child. Given that over half of all children in Sweden are born in cohabiting couples, it is a bit strange to say that it would be a dangerous or risky form for children to grow up in. It's stable relationships. It will be special in these cases. It will be an extensive investigation to see that it is really a safe and stable relationship that they have. Then I think some people will get married because it makes things easier. However, there should also be the possibility to apply as a cohabiting partner.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-409	Madam President, I would like As we noted earlier today when the Social Committee discussed more modern rules on assisted conception and parenthood, the government parties are not prepared to go further and investigate an altruistic surrogate motherhood. It justifies it with difficulty to determine whether surrogate motherhood is really based on voluntaryism without it being due to coercion or trafficking in human beings. We do not share this view, but believe that people who love each other and want to have children but lack the bodies and physical conditions that make it possible will instead be prevented by not altruistic surrogate motherhood, of course after careful checks, being allowed. That leaves for those couples the option of travelling abroad to arrange this. Then, too, when it is not possible for them to adopt the child they have obtained in this way, they do not become formal parents, although they would like to be the guardianship and responsibility of the child. Instead, the child is referred under the current rules to his biological father in so far as it is possible to identify such a child and is in no legal position in such a situation. My question to Hillevi Larsson is: Does Hillevi Larsson not think it is reasonable that adoption rules should be changed in such a way that people who through surrogate motherhood have children abroad have more opportunity to adopt their common child?
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-413	Madam President, I would like We are introducing opportunities that will also make it easier for children in surrogate families. It will also be that you no longer need to apply for approval from the Swedish Agency for Family Law and Parental Support to get an adoption to apply in Sweden. It becomes more an automatic recognition of adoptions in other countries where one of the people involved has a relationship with Sweden and their domicile in Sweden. It could be the child or the parents. This also applies to surrogate parenthood. We facilitate that opportunity. Then we also provide extended opportunities for social welfare committees and courts to establish paternity according to Swedish law for the genetic father. This may apply after a surrogate arrangement in another country. We are strengthening the children's legal position. It will be easier for them to grow up with those who will be their parents here in Sweden. However, we do not want automaticity in this because we are fundamentally opposed to surrogate motherhood, so it must still be a process. But we facilitate this process from a child's perspective. The reason we do not want to investigate altruistic surrogacy or host motherhood, as it is sometimes called, is that it has just been investigated. It became part of the investigation that worked a little wider when it came to making it easier for parents to have children. The investigation suggested that we should say no not only to commercial surrogate motherhood but also to altruistic such things from a women's rights perspective. It is difficult to guarantee that the woman will not be used in these cases.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-417	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Hillevi Larsson, for your answer! So it turns out that this is where the shoe squeezes: the government parties are not in favour of the alternative altruistic surrogate motherhood at all. This means that people who have undergone such treatment abroad are also denied the opportunity and the right to become parents of the desired child. It's tragic. Perhaps this is a discussion that we should take in other contexts. But it's about people who, as a result of genetic conditions – the bodies are not created to bear children or have in any way through illness or injury changed so that it is not possible to have children – being referred to do so in the way I described earlier. I find it tragic that the government does not want to go further on this issue. If, during a change of line, it is possible to make a request, Madam President, I would ask you to accept reservation 11.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-420	Madam President, I would like It is often described as that those who cannot get help with altruistic surrogate motherhood in Sweden are forced to go to other countries for this opportunity. I do not want to judge in any way the couples who do this. Children's longing is strong, and people, of course, want to do everything they can to have children if they can't have them. However, experience from other countries, such as the Netherlands, shows that allowing altruistic surrogate motherhood in their own country also increases traffic to other countries, where there is often talk of more commercial surrogate motherhood. It is also difficult to guarantee that it will be completely altruistic. There may be pressure within the family where persuasion campaigns can be carried out for a long time. Nor can the existence of money or other transactions in these cases be totally excluded. In any case, we can see that the commercial surrogacy is not stopped by allowing it to be altruistic, but rather the opposite: the commercial situation is increasing. I would like to return to the fact that we do not in any way close the way for the children who are still added via surrogate motherhood to live with their parents in safe conditions. In fact, in the vast majority of cases, the surrogate mother gives up parenthood, and in most cases it is the Swedish couple who is the child's parents and who wants to take care of the child. For the child's good, we want them to become parents in these cases, but it must of course be done in a legally secure way where it is properly investigated that everything is right. I have just stated that in a number of ways we make it easier for these children to access their parents more quickly and thereby gain legal certainty and security.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-425	Madam President, audiences, viewers and listeners! The red-green feminist government, as you all know, is working systematically and purposefully to build a long-term sustainable welfare society. It happens on many levels. We invest in new sustainable transport infrastructure, we stimulate the development towards sustainable construction and we develop economic instruments to make it easier for citizens to make the long-term sustainable choices in their everyday lives. Preventing the occurrence of ill health is, of course, also an important part of the construction of a long-term sustainable society. The Government has therefore also chosen to increase resources to the Swedish Public Health Agency and has focused initiatives in the area of healthcare to prevent ill health. But, Madam President, not all parties have these ambitions. In the eight years of the alliance government, the number of employees in welfare fell from 134 to 128 per 1,000 inhabitants. It is a reduction of 6 people per 1 000 inhabitants or, if you like, a reduction of 41⁄2%. The years of the alliance were thus a worse blow to welfare than the extensive budgetary consolidation of the country's finances carried out in the 1990s, when the number of employees in welfare was forced to decrease by 5 people per 1 000 inhabitants. But now, in just four years, the feminist government has restored the dismantling of welfare by the alliance government. The number of employees is even higher than in 2006, when dismantling began. We now have a total of 135 employees per 1 000 inhabitants, which is a staff increase of 5 1⁄2% under red-green rule in just four years. It's a receipt that welfare is growing. Please note, Madam President, that these figures cover all those who work for private employers e as well as those who work for public employers e. Madam President, I would like The Red Green Government is also reforming the legislation in order to modernise the laws in order to improve their functioning in the long-term sustainable welfare society. The Committee on Civil Liberties's report Modernisation of adoption rules is an example of how the Red-Green Government is developing legislation in this direction. The proposed legislative amendments modernise the regulatory framework for adoption and aim to strengthen the perspective of children's rights and create better conditions for an effective procedure that meets high standards of legal certainty. The changes include the following: When adopting a child, the best interests of the child must be the most important. That's the key. The rights of the child to information and to be heard in the adoption process are highlighted and clarified in the legislation. It also introduces a right for children who are adopted to know it from their parents. A child shall only be adopted if it is appropriate to all circumstances. The assessment shall pay particular attention to the child's need for adoption and the suitability of the applicant to adopt. The adoption rules shall be flexible and allow for a review based on the circumstances of the individual case. This is very important. Some general restrictions on adoption are therefore removed. For example, cohabiting couples should be able to adopt under the same conditions as married couples. It also introduces more open possibilities for automatic recognition of foreign adoption decisions, and also introduces more modern rules on adoption in international situations. It is also appropriate that legislation on parental law should evolve as society changes elsewhere. Legislation needs to be designed so that it can handle different ways of starting a family. Regardless of what form of cohabitation a couple chooses, it is essential for the child that the couple to whom the child is adopted can offer a stable and safe growing-up environment. A majority of the children born in Sweden today have unmarried parents. Many children grow up with parents who have chosen the common-law form, which is now a fully accepted form of family formation. Today there are many cohabiting couples who live in stable conditions and with just as good conditions as married couples to be judged fit to adopt. Marriage is no longer a prerequisite for stable and secure upbringing. Therefore, the best interests of the child can no longer be linked to the parents'choice of form of cohabitation. The government still believes that the main rule should be that children aged 12 and over should consent to the adoption in order for it to be carried out. However, this does not mean that the views of younger children in adoption are irrelevant. It should be clear that even younger children have the right to express their views in an adoption case and that their views should be taken into account in a court decision. This week, on Wednesday, we are also deciding that the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child should be incorporated into Swedish law, which I think is a very good way of marrying the basic view of this matter regarding children's rights. When it comes to the opportunities of same-sex couples to adopt, the Green Party and the government do not see any motive for making a distinction between same-sex and different-sex couples. Of course, it is regrettable that, in a few cases, same-sex couples adopted from other countries. If it is then due to opposition to such adoptions in the countries of origin or if, as the government writes in the bill, it can have its explanation that prosperity has increased in these countries and that there are therefore, to a greater extent, solutions for children within the home countries, I have no idea. But what we can see is that international adoptions have become fewer over time, regardless of the gender identity of the future parents. Today, involuntary childless couples also have more options than adoption available, which may also be a reason why the number of international adoptions has decreased. The removal of the restrictions that currently exist in some laws on the right to adoption allowance, parental leave and parental allowance for the adoption of your own child is also seen by the Green Party as a step in the right direction. I see the reservations contained in the report as a proposal for further work on the path that the government, with its proposal, points out and not as a signal of any major conflicts in the field of Swedish politics. The task of the opposition is, as always, to wish more, and the government will then play the role of the somewhat boring and realistic at the moment. Nevertheless, I think that this is quite a big step in the right direction. With this, Madam President, I support the proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-444	Madam President, I would like This afternoon, we are discussing the Committee on Defence's report on information security for essential and digital services. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Christian Democrats' reservation No 1. These are issues that are becoming increasingly topical. The FRA has on several occasions shown that this is something that is increasing, and figures have been shown that there are 10,000 cyber attacks per month of foreign power against Sweden. It is a cheap way, unfortunately, to be able to bring Sweden down. Therefore, it is important that we strengthen cyber security. The existence of this threat to Swedish cybersecurity is now well known. The attacks can be committed by criminals, terrorists or states with a hostile attitude towards Sweden. The NIS Directive, which is the subject of this report, means that important steps have been taken at European level to strengthen cyber security. I share the government's view that a new law is needed in order for adequate security measures to be taken. However, I believe that the Government's proposal also involves a fragmentation of the Swedish cyber security work and that it reduces our ability to protect us from the current threats. Cybersecurity is an expert knowledge, and that knowledge needs to be gathered in one place. I therefore believe that a Swedish cybersecurity authority needs to be established and that the authority should be given supervisory responsibility in cyber and information security matters, that the authority should be given a responsibility to develop the regulations that will govern Swedish cyber and information security work and that the authority should be given operational responsibility for implementing these regulations. What we have seen so far is that the cyber attacks that have been made against Sweden in a way have been quite gentle. Unfortunately, I believe that we will not be able to see much greater cyber attacks too far into the future. What, then, could happen? Here in Stockholm, for example, public transport could be stopped for a whole day by blocking, ticketing or signaling systems being attacked by a kidnapping virus. Paying with bank cards in stores may be impossible for a few days due to attacks on payment infrastructure. The supply of electricity could temporarily be shut down to industries and households. That is exactly what has happened two years in a row in Ukraine with Russian cyber attacks. Healthcare can be prevented from being carried out due to cyber attacks. We have seen this in Uppsala where I come from. Computers have been locked, which has prevented operations from being carried out. Foreign power can, through attacks, access information flowing in Sweden's IT and communication system, which greatly impairs Sweden's prospect of defending us in the event of war. This is something that the Swedish National Audit Office has repeatedly demonstrated. It is far too easy for foreign power or groups to take information from Swedish authorities. We need to make this right. Therefore, we propose that a holistic approach to the cybersecurity issue be taken for the civil side of society by creating a cyber security authority. It has been done in other countries. Here there are now seven authorities sharing responsibility, and with the NIS Directive there will be six more authorities. There will be far too many, and it will be far too easy for things to fall between the chairs. In Israel, two authorities were previously responsible, but it was said that it was too much and that it had to be an authority that takes the main responsibility. So we think so, and that is why we have this reservation. We believe that this would strengthen cybersecurity.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-452	Madam President, I would like For time winning, I only apply for reservation 2. Cybersecurity has been a buzzword for years in the defence and security debate. Thousands of times the concept has been mentioned, but only rarely has anything concrete been put forward. Non-forty, cybersecurity is really important. It ‐ security is important for the operation of the total defence. Although our country is already under attack in peacetime with cyber-based sabotage and theft, it is nevertheless the function of the total defense that must be dimensional. We need to get to grips with this and highlight better and safer infrastructure for greater cyber security. Since Sweden is a military non-aligned country, it is national measures that must be the focus. In this report, the EU directive, the NIS, will be implemented in Swedish law. We all know that the EU is not just a cooperation but is supranational and that much of the decision-making power is transferred from the Member States. We now simply have to implement the NIS Directive. It is only when Europe crashes that we get our power of decision back. Cooperation of this kind will then become intergovernmental. I believe that Sweden as a country can be more ambitious than the NIS Directive in several areas. Information security is a Swedish national security interest that is also closely associated with the development of a total defence. Currently, public authorities use different IT platforms and service organisations. This means that Sweden lacks the ability to ensure a robust functioning of the government's data network in a total defence perspective. I believe that the state, through parts of the overall response, should provide IT standard platforms and a coherent service organisation for authorities with critical IT systems. And an authority that builds IT platforms and service templates for the Swedish authorities should have employees who are Swedish citizens with a security rating. The Authority should not develop technology– it does the market– but the technology should be classified and adapted. A major problem with cyber security is that we are so dependent on the World Wide Web. The Internet as we know it will never be safe. Technology is a guarantee that this will never be the case. The experts say, however, that it is possible to build new internet that is completely safe. Then the basic technique must be different. Since Sweden owns special manufacturing expertise for micro satellites, it should be investigated whether these could be the core of a Swedish safe government network. Cost sharing should be applied for with the Nordic neighbours. Cybersecurity is a Swedish national security interest that is also closely associated with the development of a total defence. As a military non-aligned country, we should not uncritically provide our security-classified information to the EU. I therefore believe that it should be ensured that security-classified information relevant to Swedish security should not automatically come to the attention of the European institutions. Many Member States regard the EU's security institutions as unsafe and rogue. Countries trade and trade in intelligence. It's inevitable. But this should be done with restraint and only with credible counterparts. If we give the EU intelligence, who can then take part of it? Madam President, I would like Let Sweden retain control of our information security! And let us expand our information security, primarily for the benefit of total defence! We can suffer with the NIS Directive. Rather, it is about what more should be done to take the necessary steps forward.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-463	Madam President, I would like Before I begin, I would like to make a point about what Mikael Jansson has just said in the speaker's chair. It is in this way that information covered by the Swedish Security Act is not included in the information obligation under the NIS Directive. Information relating to national security will therefore not be disclosed to other countries without a legal review on a case-by-case basis. Unlike Mikael Jansson, as a liberal, I think it is a good thing that the EU has committed itself to information security. A year ago, it was the EU that ensured that Sweden received an incident report that now applies to the state authorities. And what we have on the table here today is the so-called NIS directive, Madam President. It takes further steps to strengthen Member States' cyber and information security within the Union. Like Mikael Oscarsson, these issues are high on the agenda today. Not least the breakdown in the Swedish Transport Agency that we experienced last summer has contributed to this. The fact that for a year and a half there was leakage of confidential information, despite the fact that several responsible ministers were fully aware of it, raises issues of crisis awareness, security awareness and, not least, coordination. In preparing this matter, the Committee on Defence put a question to the Secretary of State of the Minister for Home Affairs, Charlotte Svensson. The question was: What is the distribution of responsibilities within the Swedish state administration when it comes to cyber and information security? A Powerpoint was not enough to illustrate this. There is a wide range of authorities that have supervisory responsibilities and regulatory powers in this area. You should also readily admit that some things have happened in recent years. It is now the Swedish Armed Forces, for the military authorities, and Säpo, for the civilian authorities, who are able to stop so-called outsourcing. With the new NIS directive, we also get seven new regulators who will be responsible for one sector each in Swedish society. It is a bit of an irony that one of these regulators is actually the Transport Agency, Madam President. In addition to the supervisory structure, each authority has, of course, a responsibility for its information and cyber security. The State Secretary's statement also concerned a body called Samfi, the Cooperation Group on Information Security. It includes a wide range of central authorities in this area. It is FRA, the Swedish Security Service, the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration, the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency and of course MSB. This group has been working for quite a few years now to develop help, support and simple measures for authorities to follow in terms of security. The State Secretary also told us that this cooperation group will now become a government council and have a firmer outline and greater powers at national level. You should also get a office at MSB. The Alliance has stressed in a special opinion the importance of the government speeding up its efforts to give Samfi better muscles and greater powers. There is no reason to wait for better coordination at the very national level, Madam President. The Christian Democrats want a cybersecurity authority. That sounds like a very powerful proposal. Believe me, Madam President! If you have an authority that is solely responsible for all cybersecurity in public administration, it will be a very comprehensive authority. And such large authorities tend to turn out to be rather sluggish. We have the principle of responsibility as a basis for Swedish crisis management. My assessment is that responsibility cannot be centralised as far as the Christian Democrats propose. I don't usually say that; but I'm not very attracted to that particular idea. Madam President, I would like This is at least for me the last debate with the Committee on Defence in this parliamentary term. I would therefore like to thank all Members for their good cooperation. Madam President, I would like I would also like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-475	Madam President, I would like Information security is not the responsibility of a single authority. Perhaps there was a time when this was the case, when it was still a novelty and a narrow interest and had a limited user circle. Today, as you know, the situation is different, a whole different one. Cyber attacks are a reality that affects virtually all sectors of society. Spyage is largely conducted through electronic retrieval, and today's and certainly tomorrow's wars and conflicts will take place in different ways in the cyber environment. Madam President, I would like Against this background, it has to be said that the NIS Directive is both welcome and important. The Directive, or its Swedish interpretation, the Act on Information Security for Public and Digital Services, aims to achieve a high level of security in networks and information systems for digital services and essential services. With this legislation in place, we have a framework that requires both public and private actors to tighten up their information security work. The bill is well in line with both the defence policy direction adopted here in the Swedish parliament and the National Information and Cyber Security Strategy, which was adopted by the government in 2017. The NIS Directive is a product of the European Union. The EU itself is an integrated marketplace where goods, services and people can move freely across borders. The overall aim of the Directive is to build trust and trust between Member States and between different actors by achieving a high level of safety. From a national perspective, this legislation provides for a broader approach to cybersecurity issues, with specific sectors being identified: energy, transport, banking, financial market infrastructure, health care, supply and distribution of drinking water and digital infrastructure. All of these areas we recognise from the ongoing work on civil defence. It is therefore a question of basic functions for modern society to function. In concrete terms, the new legislation requires providers of essential and digital services to take steps to achieve adequate security protection in their systems. What, then, are essential services for society? The starting point is that these are providers of services that depend on networks and information systems and that an incident would cause a significant disruption in the provision of the service. If you think that sounds complicated, Madam President, there is an established list of activities covered and considered to be providing essential services. In particular, those suppliers shall carry out a risk analysis which shall form the basis for the choice of security measures. The analysis shall include an action plan. The action plan shall be analysed and updated annually. Suppliers shall also report incidents that affect the continuity of the services, as well as the mandatory IT incidents that have been valid for two years for all government authorities. At the same time, it should not be overlooked that many companies and organisations are currently experiencing a heavy period of new regulations regarding their ability to protect information and protect customer privacy. Recently, new personal data rules were introduced, better known as GDPR, and now the NIS Directive comes. However, there are good and well-motivated reasons behind both regulations. We must dimension ours against resistance in relation to the threat we face. Madam President, I would like Finally, anyone who has followed the defence policy debate in recent years knows that information and cyber security has become increasingly prominent. Examples from our surrounding world, but also from Sweden, show the cyberweapon's potential to damage and even force communities on their knees. We have also seen how carelessness and mismanagement have had very negative consequences. And as self-evident as it is to include the private business sector in the continuing work of total defence planning, it is to make clear demands on providers of essential services to maintain a high level of security in their IT systems.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-488	Madam President, I would like The vulnerability of our IT systems and digital services is obvious. You could use a long time to describe it, but I won't. This is a defence issue that the Committee on Defence is dealing with, but it also very much concerns civil society in peacetime. At least it is about the measures that should be taken. The development of electronic information transmission is so fast that it is difficult to keep up with. The reporting received by the Swedish Civil Protection Authority shows in its latest version that barely one third of the reporting authorities have submitted reports of one or more incidents. You might think it's good in the belief that there really isn't much going on at all. At the same time, one has to question whether this really fits with the reality, given that the FRA estimates that Swedish targets are exposed to 10 000 activities per month from abroad alone. So that's not quite true. This shows that the habit or ability of the authorities to report problems is still low. It is still unclear to the authorities what should be reported. There is really no definition of what serious incidents mean. I'll let each of you figure it out for yourself, and then you get what you get. However, those who have done so and reported indicate that in 43 percent of the cases, this has led to serious disruptions in the operation. Eighteen percent say the effect is severe interference. It is generally common people and activities that are affected by this. However, the extent of the problems is unclear. What's this about? Yeah, they're cryptotrojans, CEO frauds and denial of service attacks. Vd fraud means pretending to be CEO and making people do things. Who's the sender? Yes, it can also vary. We have the foreign contacts, but we also have a lot of domestic activities. In addition, there are quite a few alert youths. What we can see and what is important in this context is that, with better security work, we could stop or at least radically reduce the problems. The EU has indicated through the NIS Directive what must be a minimum level of national capacity, and it is a good thing to do so. There shall be a national strategy for competent authorities. There shall also be an organisation for the management of cyber incidents and a contact point for cross-border cooperation. By incorporating this into Swedish law, it will also apply in Sweden, which today's case is about. We have already heard what sectors are involved in this debate. It can be noted that part of what the NIS Directive requires has been put in place in Sweden. With today's dossier, we are taking a further important step. But decisions in this House are one thing. It strikes me that we very rarely think about it. What we decide is not the reality. It is only when it is implemented and in practice that we have achieved results. There is much to do here. Those decisions shall be implemented, maintained and managed over time. That's far from enough. At all levels, there is a need for interest and willingness to ensure that IT-based activities are trusted. In February, I participated in cyber defence day, an annual day of lectures and discussions on cyber security and cybersecurity. In a panel discussion, a member of the FRA team was involved in the investigation of incidents. He also works with the security of IT systems of authorities and companies. His message was really quite simple: If you follow the advice from them and do as you should do, the risks would be less. But we have not even introduced what was said in the 1990s, he said. In another conversation on that day, I also met with others, and a strong impression there was that cybersecurity issues are often left to the Agency's security department – point. There is often a high level of expertise, and that is good in itself. However, when the units and departments leave their premises or premises, they are dealt with at management level like all other issues from all other parts of the business. A small unit with abstract and technical questions rarely gets the ear from the managers that would be needed. This means that very little happens. We have pointed out shortcomings year after year, I was told. We are trying to say what should be done, but nothing is happening. Madam President, I would like IT and IT security issues are often technical and abstract. Many of us understand very little of how it works technically. We leave it to technicians to handle the matter and it is probably good in its own way. But we listen too badly to their advice or we do not understand them. As society and thus various activities have developed, it is not good enough. The issues of IT systems and security need to be raised at management level. Damages and shortcomings that may arise lead to costs and problems that are far too great. Here, the European directive means some positive things. Incident reporting has been put in place. This is good, because information is collected, structured and thus becomes interesting and grippable for managers. Cross-border cooperation is by nature something that is often of interest to management. As I said at the outset, V i must do more. The criticism of the government's handling of the Swedish Transport Agency's outsourcing of sensitive information should make all alarm bells ring. We Moderates believe that there is a need for a crisis management function in the Council of State Committee. It is incomprehensible that the Prime Minister moved out the one that existed instead of creating clear structures to alert. The effects we've seen, and they're very boring. As the report shows, the alliance parties have noted in a separate opinion that the government is considering various options to strengthen national coordination. You'd have to enjoy the little stuff, you might say. However, as the Defence Committee notes, responsibility for these issues is spread to a great many authorities. There is a strong need to rapidly achieve effective national coordination in the field of information and cyber security. In addition, I believe that within public authorities and companies there must be a change of the kind I have indicated. Managers and Directors-General must understand the issues and ensure that they have a place at management level. In the future, the recruitment of new leaders will very likely also include questions and requirements on IT security and IT security skills. This is so central. I think it is time that we, too, at the political level, realised that this is where it is squeezed. If we do not get the leaders of the authorities, of companies and in the government to understand how central this is, too little will happen. Progress is fast and exploited by others. I am in favour of the committee's proposal, which is a good one. I would also like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Defence for his greeting, among other things, on a happy summer. See you in other contexts!
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-509	Madam President, I would like The aim of the new law is to achieve a high level of security in networks and information systems. In many contexts, the Swedish Democrats have made it clear in various ways that we see the securing of such systems and the development of a cyber defence as an important part of all parts of the total defense. We can also welcome the fact that providers of essential services are now to carry out systematic and risk-based information security work, Madam President, with regard to the networks and information systems they use and at the same time provide these essential services. It is a little unfortunate that it comes in reverse order. Now it comes from the European Union. We have no problem with that, but we would have liked Sweden to have taken a stronger initiative here. But now it is what it is, and that is why we think it is a good thing that this is coming into place. We have to keep an eye on where decisions end up, at least in this respect. In this particular case, it is a matter of security measures which, regardless of how you approach the EU, would have been useful to implement. As I said, we are in favour of this. The government or the authority that the government decides – here I think there is some uncertainty – should be allowed to make regulations according to the proposal. The government or an authority must therefore provide regulations on what is required of suppliers of these services of social importance. Do you look at MSB? Or what do you look at? However, we have a positive basic view that this is being done in a good way. Mr President, I would like to According to the Government, when exchanging information, it must be taken into account that disclosure of information does not jeopardise Sweden's security. The committee assumes that security-classified information will not be disclosed to EU institutions but that it will first be proved that it is legally possible to do so. This is very important. Without this statement, we would not have been able to accept this at all. The more important this is and the more authorities are required to carry out security work, the greater the concerns of the Swedish democrats about the management and leadership of the authorities. We now come to extremely sensitive information, and we must act with good management and leadership, where, unfortunately, there are exceptions. I don't think there's any reason to feel confident about, for example, the new boss of MSB. Are we really supposed to have heads of government in this country who express themselves in the way he does? He says he feels nauseous and may vomit when he hears the representative of one of the country's biggest parties speaking. Are such managers qualified to lead these important authorities? I think you should go back and set some kind of skill requirements. The falluck should not be in the ceiling for politicians, officials or managers of state administrations when they have proved themselves more or less incompetent. There are also lots of good bosses. The former boss at MSB I think was excellent. I can list more. However, I would like to stress the importance of reviewing the appointment of managers of these important authorities. We have some work to do in terms of the skills requirements, I think. What requirements do we place on the management of the authority in question? You have to search the country for someone with the right skills. For the purposes of the recruitment procedure, the party book shall not determine. It is uninteresting whether you are a Swedish Democrat or something else. The competence shall determine who will be appointed as the manager or leader of the authorities. Civilly, you would never dream of hiring someone because he has the right party book.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-519	Mr President, I would like to In the present letter, the Swedish National Audit Office makes a number of recommendations to the Government. Several of these have been taken into account by the government, but there is still room for improvement. One of the recommendations is that the government should develop the reporting of the overall risks in the financing system. The Swedish National Audit Office provides several different options for how such reporting could be carried out. For example, this can be done in the budget proposals, in profit letters to the Riksdag or in the state's annual report. The Government has chosen the option to report to the Riksdag on the balance of the system and the overall risk of the state in future budget proposals. It is announced that the reporting will take place every three years. In my opinion, this reporting is not enough. Instead, I believe that reporting should be more frequent, at least twice per term of office. I therefore support the reservation.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-522	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for approval of the proposal in the Committee on Defence's report 2017/ 18:FöU15 and rejection of the reservation. The Committee on Defence has examined the Government's letter that addresses the Swedish National Audit Office's review and report on the financing system for nuclear waste management. Today, the financing system involves high costs, and the risk of the State having to pay for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel and waste must and must be minimised as far as possible. According to Swedish law, nuclear power companies must bear all the costs of taking care of and disposing of nuclear waste. They shall also finance the demolition of nuclear power plants and other nuclear installations. Since the mid-1970s, nuclear power companies have spent money to cover the costs of this. The funds are managed by the Nuclear Waste Fund. In addition to the fees paid by the owners, they also provide financial collateral for fees not yet paid to the fund and for unforeseen events. The costs of demolition, research and management of nuclear waste and spent nuclear fuel have so far amounted to approximately SEK 43 billion. The costs relate to the intermediate storage of nuclear waste, the dismantling of the nuclear power plant in Barsebäck and more. The estimated total cost for the decommissioning of nuclear power is SEK 106 billion. The state financing system for the disposal of nuclear waste will cover the costs of decommissioning and waste management up to the 2080s, according to the Swedish Nuclear Fuel Management, SKB's schedule. Given the long period of time, there is a built-in uncertainty in the system. The overall conclusion of the Swedish National Audit Office is that there are great uncertainties and disagreements as to the extent of future costs and revenues in the financing system. The calculations are currently being reviewed by the Swedish Radiation Safety Authority (SSM), which in turn makes proposals to the government on the amount of fees and collateral. Then the government decides on fees and safeguards for the reactor owners. The financing system is likely to have been under-financed and the State's financial guarantees have been insufficient. Mr President, I would like to There is a need for overall responsibility for the analysis and assessment of risks in the financing system. The Committee on Defence therefore welcomes the measures taken by the government with regard to the new rules on the financing of nuclear waste management, which it recently discussed in report 2017/ 18:FöU2. On 31 August 2017, the Government commissioned SSM and Riksgäldskontoret to prepare and implement a transfer of SSM's responsibility under the financing legislation to the National Debt Office. They will have overall responsibility for analysing and assessing the risks of the financing system through the new tasks. This change brings together the responsibility for funding issues for fewer actors, thus creating a better overview. In the further work, the Government will consider further clarifying the responsibility of the National Debt Office. The transfer of responsibility to the National Debt Office shall be completed on 1 December 2018. The Committee on Defence considers that the measures announced by the Government in its letter are relevant, including that the overall assessments of risks should be reported to the Riksdag every three years. The committee also welcomes the fact that the Swedish National Audit Office highlights SSM's and Riksgäldskontoret's ability to decide on regulations and risk limiting conditions to further limit the state's risk. There is broad agreement in committee on this. Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen, Given that I am not running for Parliament again and that this is my very last debate in this fine Chamber, I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the time I have had the privilege of working in Parliament and, above all, in the Committee on Defence. It has been twelve extremely interesting and fine years for me, with debates that have sometimes been spirited discord, but above all debates that have actually been marked by unity in our issues of such importance to the country. I thank colleagues and Members for a good working climate in committee, but I particularly thank all the office staff who have always been the Charter and the backbone of the work of the Committee on Defence in a professional and good way.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-538	Mr President, I would like to We share the committee's view; it is not a secret. Above all, as has just been said, we believe that the government has taken on board the criticisms from the Swedish National Audit Office and is proposing that this should be followed in all essential respects. We are very pleased with this. That is why we support this. The Swedish Democrats are in favour of nuclear power. There we differ a little from the other parties. Perhaps the Liberals are also in favour. There could be someone else. We also want research and the development of nuclear power. But it is another debate. We know that uranium is now being pushed into the rock room. It is believed that this will become close and that there will be no radiation. I don't know. I just feel insecure. But I'd like to ask you a question I've asked you before. Are measures taken to address them quite simply? I get the impression that you don't. As far as the new nuclear power is concerned, with the research that exists, we will be able to rework it even more, perhaps up to 90 - 95% if what I have read is correct. Wouldn't it be pretty good to be able to reuse this uranium and avoid mining uranium around the world? I think so. I will come back to this, partly when I know more about this subject and partly when I understand the costs involved. When I talk to those who store the uranium, they say that you then have to decide to bring this up again at a certain cost. That is our focus, and I will come back to that in motions for future mandates. But continuing to decommission uranium in this way, when research is almost at new reactors that can reprocess this, I think it is a good solution, if only for other countries that are wise enough to continue with nuclear power. I would like to thank the members of the Committee on Defence for one, as I see it, very nice, good and fruitful response. It has been pleasant and instructive. See you again.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-546	Mr President, I would like to We are at a political stage where there is an incredible amount of talk about longer sentences and harder grips. Then it may be good to recall that this has not always been the case in the criminal policy debate. As in all political periods, the will of politicians to mark their positions varies. If we look back in time, however, there were debates about tougher hold during the election movements in 1982, 1991 and 2006. Here we are again. Everything comes back, both in fashion and in politics. In such a debate on punishment, however, we should remind ourselves of how criminal law works in Sweden. The penalty shall be related to the seriousness of the offence, while at the same time penalising similar offences. But looking back in history, no country has been able to deter people from committing crimes simply by using the punishment as a deterrent. Nevertheless, the Left Party welcomes the modernisation and simplification of legislation. The proposal we are debating today, we in the Left Party are generally satisfied with. We support the Government's proposal, except for a couple of key points. Nevertheless, we would like to reject the proposal for two different reasons. The Government proposes in the bill that if a prison sentence has begun to be carried out and the Court of Appeal tightens the prison sentence, the judgment or decision of the Court of Appeal shall apply immediately, unless the Court decides otherwise. This is proposed because otherwise there may be a suspension of enforcement in the event that the sentenced person has time to serve the sentence according to the district court's judgment before the Court of Appeal's strengthened judgment has gained legal force. The government's proposal therefore departs from the general rule that a prison sentence may only be carried out after it has become final. We in the Left Party understand that, in practice, it is easier if enforcement can take place without interruption in the event of a strengthened court of appeal. We understand that. But purely practical concerns for the Prison Service as an authority cannot justify such a large deviation from the general rule as the government is now proposing. The second reason is that the Left Party is doubtful that the government in the bill is proposing greater flexibility in the possibility of bringing a prisoner into custody in connection with his transfer to the penitentiary for the execution of prison sentences. Already today, there are opportunities for temporary admission of the person to be transferred to the penitentiary in custody or under police arrest pending a decision on the location of the institution. I say again that the Left Party fully understands that sentenced persons may have to be temporarily taken into custody or, in special cases, under police arrest in connection with their transfer to the penitentiary, but we do not believe that today's regulation is fully sufficient to deal with the resulting need for such temporary storage. Detention itself is a major strain on the person in custody. Even through the actual detention of the person in custody, the person in custody has had his or her rights and freedoms severely curtailed. We are opposed to extending the possibility of the detention of sentenced persons in custody and police arrests, because that environment is documented as destructive to the inmate. In our opinion, children under the age of 18 should not be placed in detention or detention at all. It is therefore two purely practical measures that the proposal seeks to get to by means of legislation. I have doubts as to whether it is really the legislation that will solve practical difficulties for the authorities. Legislation should primarily be legally secure, consistent and stable. Yes, this will mean more hassle for the Prison Service, but I cannot see the motive to upset the rule of law to make it easier for an authority. In such cases, hiring more staff at the Agency is a much better solution. But it is a completely different debate. The Left Party is calling for a rejection of the bill, and I ask for the approval of reservation 1.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-556	Mr President, I would like to This a little late afternoon, we are not very many from the Committee on Justice on the ground, but some of us think it is important to be able to present this report on a new time law. The question may sound technical, and that is many of the issues we in the Committee on Legal Affairs have to deal with. Yet, they are important. This report is about facilitating the work of the courts about when a prison sentence is to be imposed and how the time for enforcement is to be calculated. The last revision of the Swedish Penal Time Act was in 1974, and the preparatory work that guides the courts in the application of the Act is up to 40 years old. It has created a difficult and outdated piece of legislation, which has often caused problems in its application itself. The Prison Service has also paid attention to the shortcomings of the law, which in the worst case may risk generating wrongful detentions. Mr President, I would like to International conventions, not least the European Convention, state the right to privacy as one of the most fundamental rights. Private life may be restricted by the general rule only if certain criteria are met. It is usually a matter of detention in relation to a criminal offence. The Swedish Constitution regulates the prohibition of detention in the form of government. In order to limit this right, explicit legal support is required. Restrictions may only be made for purposes acceptable to a democratic society. Laws that restrict freedom of movement exist in the health care sector and cover those areas, but mainly those that are suspected or convicted of a crime. Since the measures are such an interference with the individual's right to privacy, there are guarantees of legality, i.e. that no one can be sentenced to a penalty for an act which was not subject to a penalty at the time of the offence. Nor should anyone be sentenced to a more severe penalty. In addition, there are rules on a fair trial and time-limit for judicial review. All this is about securing the rights of the individual before the public. It is therefore very serious that there are problems with the interpretation and application of our penal law today. Mr President, I would like to The new Penal Time Act will regulate when and how to begin the execution of the prison sentence and how to calculate the sentence period. The law shall apply to all prison sentences resulting from a criminal offence. The main rule proposed is that a prison sentence may be executed when a judgment or decision has become final against the sentenced person. However, some exceptions have been accepted. This applies when treatment interventions are needed without interruption or in the confiscation of conditionally admitted freedom in the event of mismanagement. Another example is whether a sentenced person has begun the execution of a prison sentence but a higher court has tightened the sentence. The decision shall then take effect immediately. A fundamental starting point proposed in the report is when the prison sentence is due to begin. We believe that this should be done as soon as possible without undue delay after the sentence has been enforced. Only exceptional situations of the Prison Service may provide for exceptions. The person in custody pending a decision shall be in custody for a maximum of seven days unless there are special reasons for a longer period of time. The person under police arrest shall be placed in a position as quickly as possible. Only the transport conditions are accepted in the proposal in this report. Finally, I would like to comment on the situation of young people in detention because the issue has been raised. It is an extremely urgent group to review. Although there are provisions aimed at ensuring restrictive treatment of young people under detention, every year a few young people are sentenced to prison. Special efforts shall be made to ensure that young people are not subject to police arrest. In addition to this, the needs of children and young people should be taken into account in the placement itself. Now there is an investigation ready, Fewer in custody and reduced isolation, which is being prepared in the Government Office. It shall lead to legislative proposals to be submitted to the Riksdag. The investigation has suggested that children should not be detained but instead kept in youth homes. It's extremely important. The Government has also commissioned the Prison Service to analyse how the situation of children and young people in detention can be improved. In addition to this, the report proposes that the sentence be refined. The report regulates the date of commencement of the sentence period, the basis of calculation, the time-limit decision, situations of non-derogation outside the institution and interruption of enforcement. The aim is for this to be helpful to the courts and for the regulatory framework to be more effective and legally secure. That is how I think we can help the courts to continue working. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the report.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-571	Mr President, I would like to However, at the risk of getting tangled, I would like to remind the House once again that the Red-Green feminist government is working systematically and purposefully to build a long-term and sustainable welfare society. It happens on several different levels. We invest in new sustainable transport infrastructure, we stimulate the development of sustainable construction and we develop economic instruments to make it easier for citizens to make the long-term sustainable choices in their everyday lives. Preventing the occurrence of ill health is, of course, also an important part of the construction of a long-term sustainable society. The Government has therefore chosen to increase resources for the Public Health Agency and to make targeted initiatives in the area of healthcare to prevent ill health. But, Mr President, not all parties have these ambitions. In the eight years of the alliance government, the number of people employed in welfare was reduced from 134 to 128 per 1,000 inhabitants, a decrease of 6 per 1,000 inhabitants or a reduction of 41⁄2 per cent in staff. The years of the alliance were thus worse for the welfare of the country than the extensive budgetary consolidation of the country's finances carried out in the 1990s, when the number of employees in the well-being of the population was reduced by 5 per 1 000. Now, in just four years, the feminist government has restored prosperity following the dismantling of the alliance government. The number of employees is even higher now than when the alliance government took office in 2006, with 135 employees per 1,000 inhabitants or a staff increase of 51⁄2 percent under red-green rule. It is a confirmation that welfare is growing – and note that these figures include employees of both private and public employers. But, Mr President, the Red-Green Government is also reforming the legislation – although the report 'A new penalty law' does not mean the major changes on the way to the visions of the green society and the better world that we want to create. The so-called Penal Time Act has, according to the Government's assessment, become obsolete and, due to the fact that several minor adjustments have been made over the past 40 years, even difficult to understand and difficult to interpret. It's probably something that most laws happen to over time, I think. However, it is not good when authorities feel that there are increasingly problems with interpretation and application in a law, so of course we need to correct that. According to the Government, the new Penal Time Act should provide clarity on issues such as when and how the execution of prison sentences may start and how the sentence period should be calculated. The law will also deal with convictions imposed in other countries and many other enforcement issues for those sentenced for criminal offences. Mr President, I will not prolong the debate and take up so much more of the limited time in this House, but I would nevertheless like to take the opportunity to link this issue to the area for which I am mainly responsible. A well-functioning welfare policy reduces the risk of citizens falling into the wrong place in society and, in the worst case, embarks on a lifestyle that also covers some form of criminal activity. Green policy has as its main focus to support and help early so that ill health in various forms will not get hold of the individual – and crime is undoubtedly unhealthy behaviour. The Green Party's position is also that punishment is not supportive or educational, but rather that treatment in order to break destructive behaviour is prioritised and that it takes place as early as possible in a criminal career. I know that the Correctional Service shares the view that treatment is better than punishment, although it may take longer than the sentence imposed. But then we have the parole system, which is a tool that should be used to a greater extent. The proposals put in the bill by the government are not really controversial; they are rather practical ways of dealing with the problems that the authorities point out. Since I am completely new to the Committee on Justice and this is my first and probably also my last debate in this committee, I would like to avoid going into polemics with the reserves on the report. In principle, I have no objection to the proposals in the accompanying motion; on the contrary, I think they are quite reasonable. I also think it would be a little premeditated for me, Mr President, to claim, with only two weeks' experience of the work of the Committee on Justice, that I can make a different assessment from that of the government when drafting its proposal. That might be a little strange. The government has probably made a good assessment of what is possible to do right now, in this situation. As far as the reservations relating to the proposals in the report Fewer in custody and reduced isolation are concerned, as the previous speaker said, this is being prepared in the Government Office. As is said in such contexts, it should not be anticipated. I understand, however, and it has also emerged in the debate, that there are no major contradictions on these issues in the main. I therefore call for the proposal to be approved and for the reservations to be rejected.
i-2ecf742a380c6f0b-585	Mr President, I would like to Dwight David Eisenhower later became President of the United States, but before that he was Brigadier General, commanding the Allied forces against the Nazis during World War II. That war could be won, and freedom could triumph against the forces of darkness that time. An absolutely decisive component in the recipe of victory was undoubtedly leadership. Political leadership was, of course, extremely important, and it is not infrequently an opportunity to quote one of the greatest, Winston Churchill of the time. But even the leadership of those who were set to carry out the decisions made by the political leaders was of paramount importance. Eisenhower is the author of a quote that I often think of. It has been in a few different variants, because Eisenhower often pressed this: that plans are usually useless but that planning is indispensable. That is exactly the case: Plans are useless, but planning is indispensable. In our context as legislators and opinion-makers, we normally base our plans on ideological convictions. In the world of ideas everything is perfect, but even the most logical thought model can encounter patrols in reality's bushy thicket. Reality is changing. New information comes into being, and what was important yesterday may be obscured by things that are urgent today. We can see or do not see that these plans applied in practice do not achieve what we intended. At worst, they become counterproductive and are actually counterproductive of our political objectives. So plans can prove useless. But to have thought through all aspects of planning, to point out a direction and – perhaps most importantly – to decide what the direction should be, just as Eisenhower put it, is indispensable. The opposite approach is to act without a plan, to take the day – and the debate – as it comes, to try to find out what public opinion wants at the moment and to pursue it with more or less thought-out policy proposals. The latter is rarely successful, but it is grip that is often taken into account when leadership is weak and you are under pressure. That is when normal barricades for decency and reasonableness are too easily crossed. That is when proposals are being made to deploy military force against their own people. So did the Prime Minister; then, of course, he had to back away from such absurdity. Another unpleasant crossing of the border of decency was when the Minister of Justice and Social Democracy Morgan Johansson, in an exchange on Twitter, prided themselves on having tightened up migration policy and that, therefore, free bus cards can be distributed to young people, whether they need them or not. I have every respect for the fact that one can land in a different conclusion from that in which the Center Party has landed as regards the conditions for migration to Sweden. Gud knows that there are many problems for those who come to Sweden and will try to cross the thresholds into the housing and labour markets. There is a high risk of falling into benefit traps and exclusion. The risk of falling into crime is also greatly increased due to the economic and social exclusion caused by the high thresholds. These problems must be resolved – if there is no doubt – and, as I said, I have every respect for those who seek solutions to these problems, even if they are not exactly the solutions that we in the Center Party advocate. What does not give rise to respect is the parties whose representatives seek to exploit the problems, paint immigration as the basis for all social problems and promote such a statement of reality. That is, of course, because that is not the case – it understands every thinking person – but also because, as political representatives, we have a responsibility for the climate of debate. Another thing that does not contribute to a great sense of respect is when you waver between positions, precisely – with all reasonableness – in the lack of a plan and without any great idea of what you want to achieve with politics or what is the very meaning of your power. One example is the stubborn opposition that the government and, above all, Social Democratic representatives offered to see the need for more resources for the police. It was a proud opposition which, three years into the mandate, was then changed to pride over the opposite position. That is one thing when it comes to the budget issue. It is of course extremely important, and the government's failure to act and provide the necessary means in time has exacerbated the police crisis and made it harder and more expensive to solve. But when people change their feet so easily on fundamental ideological issues such as asylum law, openness to the outside world and people's equal rights and dignity, they undermine the basis on which the rule of law and modern liberal democracy rest. I also note that several heavy Social Democrats reject this reversal. One of our colleagues here in the Riksdag has chosen to leave his mission prematurely in protest against the development of his party, the Social Democrats, in this particular area. Social Democrats in Skåne announce that they do not want to be on the same list as a person who expresses himself as Morgan Johansson does about immigration. The professor of state science and the president of the network of Social Democrats for Faith and Solidarity, Ulf Bjereld, is highly critical. In an article in Sydsvenska Dagbladet, he says that it is to promote xenophobia to advertise in the way that the Social Democrats do, on the occasion of an advertising campaign that prides itself on the new harsher measures taken against asylum seekers. I hope that the part of the Social Democrats that stands for transparency and, more importantly, a responsible way of conducting the debate will win this internal battle. If this happens, more reports from our committee may look like what we are debating today – a broad consensus on improving laws that make life a little better and make it a little easier for the authorities working on these difficult and important issues to do it effectively and effectively. This could be part of a legal policy plan that is not about pursuing an opinion that is rightly upset by the lack of police officers and the absence of the rule of law. It is claimed that investigations are too casually closed and there is no time and resources to investigate everyday crimes – the most common category of offences that often act as an unfortunate entry crime that, in the worst case, is the beginning of a long and difficult criminal career. It could be a greater idea of how we really make the whole country more secure and restore confidence in the rule of law. From the Center Party we have such a plan. It's about resources, on the one hand. Already in Annie Lööf Christmas speech in 2015 we announced major efforts at the police. These efforts have grown over time and cover more parts of the legal chain so that we do not just shift the bottlenecks in the system. It's about strengthening the prosecution and witness protection. It is also a question of securing and developing the capacity of NFC, the National Forensic Centre, which carries out the technical investigations. This is, in most cases, something that is absolutely necessary to bring about convictions and which is already lagging behind so that cases are piled up and delayed. Not only does this take longer for victims to get redress, but it also significantly increases the risk that no one will be convicted of the crime, as the long waiting allows tracks to cool down and witnesses to forget. And the resources, Mr President, are only half the share. The Center Party's long-term plan to make the whole of Sweden more secure includes, among other things, efforts to combat everyday crime. We want to review the possibilities for direct discharge and prosecution so that more crimes are actually investigated, partly because the victims of these crimes also deserve us to do so, partly because they stifle criminal careers in their infancy. We see companies and entrepreneurs as a key. On the other hand, they are the job creators who make sure that people do not have to live in exclusion, something that we know is breeding ground for crime. On the one hand, they are in places that could become playing fields for criminals unless shops and other companies were there with their businesses. They attract ordinary people and are in place and can alert and testify if anything happens. Collaboration between companies and between companies and the public is a key and an important part of what is called the New York model. One variant is so-called business improvement disputes, which have proven to be able to create real and lasting security in places that have previously been hard hit by crime. A very clear division of responsibilities is another important element. On the one hand, it is a question of all municipalities being fully aware of their responsibilities in the prevention of crime, drop-outs and crime victims. On the one hand, it is about setting the right kind of requirements for our law enforcement authorities and giving their managers a clear mandate linked to a clear responsibility. In the same way, they must also be able to provide opportunities for their employees to solve clearly defined tasks and demand responsibility for doing so as intended. Follow-up is absolutely necessary and increases the efficiency of law enforcement authorities in the short term, but also enables better research so that methods can be developed and efficiency increased in the longer term. This and much more is part of what could be, and could be, Sweden's underlying idea of how the rule of law should develop. It is to be hoped that this has been demonstrated by my speech, but I therefore, on behalf of the Centre Party and the Alliance as a whole, am in favour of the committee's proposal.
