i-bf123376ef2fc90a-5	Madam President, I would like Good morning! We are here to debate, at least briefly, the Social Security Committee's report on the seasonal employment directive and its implementation. I shall begin by calling for the approval of the Swedish Democrats' report No 1. I can briefly say that when this first landed on our table, I raised some doubts as to whether we need regulation at all for seasonal employment, since it is often about the kind of jobs and occupations that many of our young people could take, such as summer jobs on summer holidays or during other holidays. Seasonal employment should, of course, be regulated with better and stricter labour regulation at all to the extent that this is necessary. However, given today's legislation in this area, we note that the implementation of the directive involves some tightening up. We finally have legislation in place in this area that will make it possible, for example, to refuse work permits if the employer has been sanctioned in the past. This is something that is less explicit in today's legislation. This is a step in the right direction, because in our world it is obvious that an employer who has used illegal labour in the past should not be able to employ foreign workers again. Perhaps you should not even be able to hire anyone at all, but be grounded. So important is that we have respect for the laws and regulations that apply in our country. We Swedish democrats have therefore chosen to support the proposal in general. But there are things that could have been better and things where neither the directive requires them to be in a certain way. That is why we have a reservation which also involves a couple of concrete legislative changes. It is partly about the proposal that those who have regularly had seasonal employment and work permits for several years should be able to credit this time to get up in enough time to get a permanent residence permit in Sweden. First of all, we believe that permanent residence permits are unreasonable at all. You are either here for a reason, and then these grounds must be ensured for the residence permit you have. However, the purpose is to stay and live here permanently, and then you should apply for citizenship. It is particularly unreasonable that something which by definition only happens on certain occasions and which by definition is not about staying in the country should permanently provide the possibility of a permanent residence permit. That is why we propose deleting the wording that seasonal employment should also be the basis for the time taken to apply for a permanent residence permit. We propose that it should remain as it is today. In addition, a number of optional grounds are proposed, i.e. the voluntary withdrawal or refusal of a residence permit in certain cases. In the case of withdrawal, for example, if you do not meet the conditions required to obtain a seasonal work permit from the outset, it should be voluntary to withdraw the residence permit. This is quite remarkable given that, as recently as last autumn, we stated that this is not a good solution. The criticism of such a proposal was widespread, and the committee withdrew after examining just such a proposal. It is also a question of voluntary refusal, for example, of a residence permit for seasonal work if the applicant has previously abused the acquis and has not complied with the rules in force. An employer who has abused the rules is sanctioned for this and prevented from hiring again. That is why, in our view, it is also unreasonable for anyone who has come here and abused our rules and has not complied with the conditions to be re-employed. It must apply equally in both directions; there it should not be voluntary to refuse. These are some examples, and there are of course more. We also want to change the wording on health insurance. We have talked about this in several other cases. I can say straight away that our proposal would mean that the legislation is different for different groups. But that is because this is what is on the table today, and we have had similar reservations when the other legislative changes have been on the table. In our opinion, it should not be enough to have applied for health insurance, but it should have been granted in order to be able to enter the country and work here. It is also particularly important when it comes to seasonal employment, which by its very nature has a shorter status. There health insurance should be in place before entering the country to work here because it is not reasonable that it is Swedish taxpayers who should bear any medical costs, to the extent that they are needed for those who are only here temporarily.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-15	Madam President, I would like The proposal we are debating today contains several proposals that offer relatively good protection against the risk of being exploited by rogue employers. We in the Left Party are therefore mainly in favour of the proposals contained in the bill to protect seasonal workers. However, like LO, we would have liked to see tougher sanctions imposed on employers who exploit seasonal workers from third countries. The proposals for sanctions highlighted in the study entitled Strengthening the position of labour migrants in the labour market could have been usefully considered and put forward in the framework of this proposal as well. But the government makes a different assessment. The Left Party assumes that, within the framework of the proposal for measures to strengthen the labour market position of labour immigrants announced by September 2018, the Government will propose tougher sanctions against employers who exploit seasonal workers as well as other workers from third countries. However, our main objection to the proposal we are debating today is the fact that the government does not make use of the opportunity provided by the Seasonal Directive for Member States to decide that a binding employment offer or a valid employment contract is required for a seasonal work permit to be granted. We in the Left Party believe that the government should have used this opportunity and introduced such a requirement in the bill. This view is shared, not unexpectedly, by LO, who stated in his opinion that a valid contract of employment or a binding offer of employment should form the basis for a permit for seasonal work. In this context, it is important to recall that, prior to the 2014 elections, the Social Democrats and LO presented ten regulations for the labour market with a view to order and order. One of the rules concerned labour immigrants from third countries. The requirement was that a work offer had to be made legally binding. The Social Democratic-led government now has every opportunity to live up to its electoral promise. In a first step, the offer of work should be made legally binding on third-country seasonal workers in accordance with the possibility offered by the Seasonal Employment Directive. In a second step, the same should apply to other labour migrants from third countries. It is a bill that we assume the government will present in the bill that is announced until September 2018. But there is some doubt about this. We hear the Social Democrats increasingly describe themselves as a middle party, and I wonder, of course, when I also hear the Social Democrats' latest proposals on labour immigration, which do not stress precisely the need for a binding job offer, where the Social Democrats stand today with regard to this important assurance of people's equal opportunities and an end to exploitation. With this, Madam President, I am in favour of reservation 2.
i-7AWKPfkhdp7qdopfeKid6R	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the proposal in the SfU21 report of the committee and, therefore, for the proposal contained in the Government's proposal 2017/ 18:108. I would also like to ask for the other motions to be rejected. The background to this bill, if I may be a little bureaucratic, is that in 2014 the European Parliament and the Council adopted a directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for seasonal employment, also known as the Seasonal Employment Directive. The Directive entered into force already in March 2014 and was due to be implemented in the Member States by autumn 2016. The Seasonal Employment Directive is part of the creation of a common EU policy on legal labour migration. The directive is intended to meet the need for seasonal labour in the EU while ensuring reasonable working and living conditions for seasonal workers. At the same time, we should remember that Swedish legislation is already in principle in line with the directive. As I said, the Seasonal Employment Directive would already have been implemented, and the proposal is greatly delayed. It is therefore also natural to implement the Seasonal Employment Directive with a solution that is close to the current regulatory framework. The rules on seasonal employment are, as most people understand, part of a larger framework for labour migration. With regard to labour migration, two things are important for us Social Democrats. On the one hand, Sweden should be an attractive country for highly skilled workers. It is important, it is right and it is necessary. On the other hand, we must have functional rules that ensure that the people who come to Sweden come to shortage industries and not to jobs with low qualification requirements. Labour immigration must never undermine the Swedish model. As I have mentioned earlier here in the pulpit, the Swedish National Audit Office has noted that up to 20 per cent of the surveyed employers paid labour immigrants under the dependency requirement. That is totally unacceptable. In order to maintain this duality, i.e. to be attractive to highly skilled workers but at the same time to ensure that labour migration does not lead to wage dumping, the Migration Agency, among other things, has been tasked with promoting needs-driven labour migration. More needs to be done here. In short, it should be easy for serious companies to use labour immigration, but we must stop the cheating. The conclusion of this is, for us Social Democrats, twofold. On the one hand, there is a need for a simple and well-functioning system that provides opportunities for labour migration of highly skilled workers and labour to shortage occupations. On the other hand, we want to stop cheating and ensure that there is order and order in the Swedish labour market. We also need to put an end to the fact that people are being exploited by organised crime and rogue employers. What is important to remember is that this proposal concerns only a very small part of the rules on labour immigration. It is therefore reasonable to integrate the Directive into existing legislation. Otherwise, there would be a risk of legislation being even more delayed. There we Social Democrats differ from both V and SD. Then we Social Democrats will continue to work on reforming the system of labour immigration, because it is necessary.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-27	Madam President, I would like It may sound a little reasonable that we do not want to go too far from current legislation. As I mentioned in my speech, I am aware that one of the proposals that we want to see implemented would be to change from the current line. So I have some sympathy for saying no, although I think it is unwise and that we should start to change in the right direction. In other cases, however, it is quite the opposite, for example, to make it optional, i.e. optional, to withdraw a residence permit when the conditions for a residence permit for work are not fulfilled. It's something new. Furthermore, it is something new that the committee examined quite thoroughly last autumn, and we concluded that we cannot proceed with such legislation. How, then, is it possible to make it optional in this case when it is not a requirement? It could have been made clear that either you live up to the conditions of seasonal employment or you do not, and if you do not, you should not have a residence permit to be here as a seasonal employee. Moreover, in the case of specific seasonal employment contracts, these are short employment contracts. The risk that the problem that has been faced with so-called skills exclusions when you have changed employers or other things and there have been completely unreasonable expulsions is much less here because it is a question of shorter employment contracts, seasonal employment contracts by definition, where you investigate whether the condition is still there or not. You search every time. What makes it optional in this case?
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-30	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that it is not a little reasonable for us to try to keep the legislation together, but it is very reasonable. Actually, I think that's the only reasonable way to go. I cannot agree with Paula Bieler that we are moving in another direction with regard to this legislation in relation to the rest of the legislation. Legislation already has different elements, and legislation today for other parts of labour migration also has optional elements. So it is not as you say that there are no optional elements in today's legislation. This legislation is designed to harmonise with current regulations. Then there is a need for reform of the overall system of labour immigration rules. However, if we do so at different times, we risk that the legislation will become like a hollow cheese and that employers and employees will be able to choose different parts of the legislation. It is not an effective way of legislating. Instead, it is reasonable to implement the Seasonal Employment Directive in this way in harmony with current legislation because the legislation is late. Then we need to reform the rules on labour migration across the board.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-33	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer, Mathias Tegnér! I couldn't agree more. We need to reform the whole legislation on labour migration. I have also noted that only a few weeks ago the Social Democrats went out and said in principle what we have said and asked for for for quite a long time, including that it should be a government authority that reviews needs tests instead of the unions, which have had to do so in the past. We have talked about the fact that, for example, the Public Employment Service is well placed to carry out such a review because they have a holistic approach to the labour market. There are obviously many points of view where the Social Democrats are approaching us on the subject of labour immigration, and that is reasonable, welcome and good. However, I did not generally ask whether there are optional grounds otherwise or not. I am well aware that there are optional grounds both for withdrawal and for granting in our foreigner's legislation and in the legislation on residence permits. I specifically asked about the cases where residence permits have been granted for work under certain conditions that have been fulfilled and then it turns out that they have not been fulfilled at all and that they do not exist. That's where you want to make it optional-- that's a specific paragraph. Why should it be optional to withdraw a residence permit if it is proven that the basis of the permit does not exist and it is about the kind of factors that mean that it should never have been granted from the outset? Why should this possibility exist at all? Will this not continue to lead to the risks that we have seen in the past, namely trade in work permits and playing on the rules to pretend that there are sensible conditions, although it does not and has given the person the opportunity? Some employers who have been sanctioned in the past can be refused. On the one hand, it is still optional, and on the other hand, it means that they could switch, create new bogus companies and so on. This opens up an unreasonable market. Why not make it clear that if the rules are abused in any way, there should be consequences, whether it is employers or employees who do so? Why waver about this? Why is it voluntary?
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-38	Madam President, I would like First of all, Paula Bieler, you mix away the cards when you say that optional means voluntary. In fact, that is not true; it is an interpretation of its own only to give exciting effects here in the speaker's chair. Optionally, an overall assessment of a number of criteria is carried out. Once again, it is reasonable to have legislation that is consistent, that is to say that the rules that are currently optional in the context of labour immigration should remain so until the whole system is reformed, so that we do not get legislation that is like a Swiss cheese. The most important thing here is not to have strong arguments in the speaker's chair, but to have legislation that ensures that people are not exploited and that organised crime does not succeed in getting into this area. In short, we need legislation that works. That is why reforms are needed. It is not in the Seasonal Employment Directive that we are going to make these reforms, because then we will have legislation that will be like a Swiss cheese. We need legislation that works, not strong arguments here in the speaker's chair.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-42	Madam President, I would like The other week I took an interest in the Social Democrats' proposals on labour immigration, on which elections are held. There was good news, for example in relation to some kind of examination of work needs and so on, but what I thought was most interesting was what was not said, namely that one wants a legally binding job offer or employment contract. It has been central in the discussion about the possibilities of exploiting labour from a trade union standpoint that there is such a possibility, so that the union can follow up and work against the effort that people are affected by. Instead, the Social Democrats say that they want a sanctioned reporting obligation for employers who change employment conditions. For me, this does not in any way sound like a legally binding employment offer or contract. I wonder what this means. Is it a position transfer or not?
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-45	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying the same thing as I said to Paula Bieler: we need a reform of the rules on labour immigration. It is not reasonable to make such changes in a small part of the legislation, because that will not mean that we will have legislation that stays together and works. It is therefore completely unreasonable and impossible to implement what the Left Party is proposing today, because the issue is not being investigated and there are no concrete proposals. We still think, just as Christina Höj Larsen referred to, that there are two things that are important when it comes to labour migration. On the one hand, Sweden needs to be one of the better countries in order to attract highly qualified labour migrants. We need to be the best there, we need to have a fast system and we need to make sure that Sweden is attractive. On the other hand, it is quite unreasonable to have rules which today mean that many of the people who come here as labour immigrants come to sectors where there is no shortage of labour and where there is no high level of qualification. We know that these rules have led to wage dumping and to organised crime moving into parts of our labour market. Therefore, the proposals contained in the statement that Christina Höj Larsen referred to are very important in order to get a labour immigration that works. As far as binding employment contracts are concerned, my opinion is that we need to ensure that what people are promised before they come to Sweden also becomes a reality when they come here. But we need to design it in a way that makes the legislation work.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-50	Madam President, I would like It was a very long detour to what I was looking for, and the answer became a little mysterious well. On every occasion we have discussed labour immigration, I have pointed out one thing that is central: that we need a legally binding job offer or something like that. I have pointed this out in writing, and we have had it in committee. But I see that the Social Democrats consistently avoid it. I see it now, too, when you present your policy on which you are going to elections. You are avoiding what is absolutely central to the unions and to everyone who is in the labour market: that people should get what they have been promised, not other conditions. In the light of the fact that the Social Democrats now describe themselves as a middle party, this actually becomes a bit difficult to digest. Everyone agrees – from trade unions and anyone who has seen the gross exploitation going on – that what could work and help is that people have a legally binding employment offer or contract. But that is the only thing the Social Democrats avoid saying in all contexts. How do we interpret that?
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-54	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Christina Raise Larsen, for the rhetorical question! It is, of course, nonsense to call the Social Democrats a middle party. It is also nonsense that we ourselves call ourselves a middle party. Social democracy has historically always been a party for the entire Swedish people. That is also why the Social Democrats have been a successful party that has ensured that Sweden is one of the world's most equal countries. To argue that the Social Democracy has not always been a party that turns to the whole of the Swedish people, of course based on the fact that we are a workers' party, and to keep joking about and trying to gloat about it just pisses me off. Frankly: Throughout the 20th century, the Social Democracy has built up the Sweden that we see today. It was at the same time that the Left Party still had relations with Moscow. Such discussions are as serious as calling the Social Democrats a middle party. As far as the questions are concerned, two things are very important for the unions and LO. One is precisely what we are proposing, namely that low-skilled workers should not, as they are today, have the opportunity to come to Sweden. This represents a contradiction and a downward pressure on wages. This is an issue that has been very important to LO, and we have now been clear on that. We have not heard such clear answers from the Left Party. The second is the question of binding contracts of employment. There we say that it is important to get the same offer or terms when you come here as you have been promised. On the other hand, legislation must be drawn up that actually works in practice.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-59	Madam President, I would like We are now going to debate police issues, a so-called motion report. As usual, the majority of the Committee on Justice has in full agreement proposed three announcements, orders to the government, to correct matters. I will briefly mention these. The first announcement is that it will be easier for the Police Authority and the Enforcement Authority to have an exchange of information in order to be able to foreclose property found in the activities of the police. In other words, it is mainly about stolen goods. Secondly, there is the urgent need to tighten up access to identity documents in order to reduce the number of identity thefts and frauds and make it more difficult for criminals. Thirdly, there is the urgent need to find further measures to improve the safety of hospitals. It is against the background that there have been more and more incidents of a violent nature in the places where care is actually to be provided. It creates insecurity for both patients and staff. Madam President, I would like This is how it starts. The Alliance is making proposals, the Alliance is making sure that there is a majority, the Alliance is running the government ahead of it. I smile a little before the forthcoming debate. We will hear about the huge initiatives taken by the current government. Basically, it has begun in these reports. The initiatives come from the Alliance. The government has received an order, and it will be politics. That is how it has worked during this parliamentary term. It will sound different during this debate, I promise. But this is how it works. It sounds like the government has invested a lot of money in the police. But the fact is that these efforts have always been on the future. During this term of office, Madam President, the police have been underfunded in principle every year. A few years ago, the crisis was quite acute, and the business had to be run on credit. At the last moment, in the spring change budget, money could be paid. Although we all knew it, even though we pointed it out in the budget debates, the police were underfunded. We will certainly be told that we have now taken a great deal of weight and allocated SEK 200 million in our amending budget. It is relatively small money in a large business. Madam President, I would like A little bit you have to smile when you see what problems the 200 million crowns are going to solve. It covers almost all types of crime plus protective equipment for the police, but it's just a one-time operation, nothing long-term. Madam President, I would like The first thing this government did was to remove the target of 20,000 police officers. The aim was, of course, to save money on the police. Now it sounds different. Now you're going to bet and move forward. But let me mention a few simple facts. When the Alliance had government power, the number of policemen increased. During this government's time in power, the number of police officers has decreased. It's two simple facts. They also show the direction. Madam President, I would like We've had a police crisis for a number of years. Let's hope it's turning around. Unfortunately, however, we have to note that in February this year the number of police officers was well below 20 000. That was the lowest figure since 2009. In 2010, the police increased quite substantially; the number of police officers increased to over 20,000 police officers. So that was the lowest figure in nine years. The problem is that the trend does not seem to turn around. It is the same rate of police departures in the first two months of this year as it was in the first two months of last year. In January and February, 146 police officers were lost. Then you'd think they'd retired. Of course people retire, so that's why we have to train more people. The problem is that only 40% of these departures are retirements. 60% are second departures. The pace is the same, and that is a problem. There will be much more training. It is positive that the government has announced an increase in the number of training places, which is needed. But what will help more places when they are not occupied? In January 2017, 160 seats in police training had empty chairs. At the next admission in August 2017, there were 107 places that were not possessed. This year we had the worst situation when only 624 out of 800 seats had a student. This makes it difficult, Madam President, to maintain even the present number. We have to do something new with education, and it is quite urgent. In recent times I have heard that it has turned around and that the results have improved. We had a meeting of the National Transparency Council yesterday. Some figures were pointed in one direction and some figures in the other direction, but the fact is that no statistical improvements can be seen in terms of investigation results and crime clearance. The numbers are on the margin, and they swing a little from month to month. It doesn't seem like we're bottomed out – and this is based on a situation that can't get much worse, because then no crimes at all will be investigated. It is therefore a serious situation and a serious crisis. Then I'll be very worried. One of the measures that has been taken now is to increase the number of pre-trial restrictions. What does pre-trial restriction mean? Well, that means you don't do anything. You write it off. If that is the solution to clear up the number of crimes, there has been no reversal. I find it alarming. Of course, it has been difficult and painful for the police with the reorganisation. But still it hasn't sat down. We get far too many reports on long decision-making routes, unclear delegation arrangements and police officers who do not dare to make decisions. That has to change. Madam President, I would like We must now ensure that the police become an attractive profession. We need to get people to stay. It's about getting a decent salary. For this we spend money, and then the parties have to negotiate. This is about a long-term investment in good equipment. One-off appropriations are not enough, and little money is not enough. We need to take a grip on training and recruitment. We have been discussing a new police training for ten years. Some people want an academy, some don't. This has paralysed the debate and nothing is happening. We need to take a new approach to education. Our proposal is to ensure that you have a good basic education to become a police officer. Later, you gain professional experience, and then you can study with different directions – this in order to become a good police officer. One can focus on investigation or intervention. In the long term, you should of course also be able to gain academic points. But we need to take a new approach to education now. We need more ways in. We need to get the necessary specialists. Distance training must have a sufficient number of places. That is not the case today. We need to create an attractiveness to apply for the courses. Then you need to do two things. The authority responsible for this must work. There is an announcement from the Riksdag to make a review of the agency. But there is a lot of pain in many places, and the stories of problems are many. We from the Moderates have made a proposal that the police profession should become more attractive in the way that when you start working as a police officer you should have your student loan written off. It is one way to increase attractiveness and get more qualified to apply for police training. Madam President, I would like We need to take a new grip. We need to stop the departures. The police who quit must at least in some way try to hold on. The problem is, nothing's happening. Madam President, I would like Finally, of course, it is a question of getting a functioning organisation, sufficient numbers of police officers and an attractiveness of the profession. But it doesn't work without the rest of the system. We must continue to look at the sanctions, including for young offenders. We must have a reality in the discussion about the quantity rebate when many crimes have been committed. And again, crimes are to be investigated. Pre-trial restrictions should be used as little as possible. Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 34.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-82	Madam President, I would like For the motion report on police matters, there is a fairly good breadth of motions from the Swedish Democrats which in different ways concern the work of the police. These include cooperation between authorities and arms licensing issues. We want to continue to make it easier for legal gun ownership. We also want to give increased powers to security guards, who have become increasingly complementary to the police. We have had fewer police officers every year who have joined Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister. All in all, the measures that could strengthen and streamline society's ability to establish law and order in our country. The report on police matters also deals with the issue of special foreign control, even if it is simplified this year. It is the law that allows the Security Service to ensure that foreigners who pose a threat of terror to our country can be expelled. However, it is a law that has major shortcomings, especially in situations where the execution of expulsion cannot be implemented. We still have cases in Sweden where people who are to be expelled because they pose a terrorist threat instead of being expelled go around freely in our society with a duty to report to the police maybe five days a week. The Swedish Democrats are the only party to advocate the end of these situati ones until expulsion can be carried out. No other party seems to understand the serious situation of the terrorist threat in which Sweden finds itself. This is largely due to the policy of migration dictated by the Green Party in the government and which the Center Party seems to dictate within the Alliance. Detention is also the solution of Sweden's democrats to reduce the need for internal immigration controls. Asylum seekers who are refused their asylum application should not be able to go underground and create a lot of additional work for our authorities. They shall remain in custody until deportation can be carried out. On this proposal, the Minister of Justice has said that it would be unreasonable to lock up perhaps tens of thousands of people who have been allowed into our country. That, in my view, is an unreasonable answer. So just because migration policy has been mismanaged should not take responsibility for the consequences, the Minister's conclusion seems to be. However, with the migration policy of the Swedish Democrats, we would not have had to have either increased internal immigration controls or a massive expansion of detention places for asylum seekers. We could have targeted vulnerable parts of the welfare system instead. The work with internal foreign controls has of course become more necessary because all parties here over the years have competed to have the most irresponsible migration policy. Although the government has now sobered up and promised more executions, it is far from achieving its goal. Of course, all of this is connected. With fewer police officers to carry out more and more complex tasks, the results are limping. This is why many of our movements are not only good in themselves, but they are necessary because the government has underfunded the Police Authority. With increased powers for security officers, these can provide greater support for the police, but we also have a military force today that could be a resource for the Police Authority. It is not a question of starting a military war against the civilian population, as some easily frightened liberals have imagined. It is about the military being able to monitor more places than shelters, perform tasks related to border controls, assist the police or rescue services for that matter in connection with emergency services in particularly vulnerable areas. We know that the situation there is complicated and that there are not often reprisals against the police. Let the military watch the homes of vulnerable police stations or the homes of vulnerable police officers, and those who want to bomb or fire for their own purposes may think differently. And if we used existing resources with security guards, military and police more effectively, we could in the short term free up police resources that could, for example, carry out more internal foreign controls with a more satisfactory result. We have contributed in this report to three announcements concerning cooperation between Kronofogden and the police, a tightening up of the availability of identification documents and a review of what further measures can be taken to strengthen the safety of hospitals. These are announcements that we support. We are also in favour of all our reservations, but in this debate I choose to endorse only reservation 12 on the Swedish Armed Forces' support to the police.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-93	Madam President, I would like It's almost summer again. Last year the police here in Stockholm had one of their recurring activities, sobriety control, during a summer evening in June. It all took place that evening on Tranebergsbron, a little bit west from here seen, and at Norrtull. The result was shockingly disappointing to me. 38 people were arrested for drunk driving. It is an incomprehensiblely large number, and it is appalling that so many choirs were affected in the midst of us. Of course, if you choose to see the glass half full, it is good that the police did this. Hopefully they stopped the advance of these 38 people. When you think about it, you get in a little better mood. And the glass is not only half full, but it is full and tasty when you then read Kronofogden's report from the activity. The bailiff and the police have been working closely together for some time after the regulations have been adjusted to make this possible. This means that cars, cash, jewellery and watches can be seized and confiscated from those who, for example, have large debts to their victims. In the activity I mentioned, no less than seven vehicles and other assets worth nearly 1 million were seized. This work affects security in Sweden in a very tangible way: Criminals are increasingly finding it more difficult to enjoy the results of their crime, and victims of crime are given easier share of the damages awarded by a perpetrator who claims to lack assets but who is travelling around in luxury cars. Now we are taking the next step in this work. The Alliance's motion to open up to facilitate the sharing of information between the police and the Kronofogdet has won the majority in committee and is one of three important announcements today. And the disappointing fact that so many people get behind the steering wheel makes last week's decision on drunk driving and illegal driving even more urgent. We then tightened the penalties for this. Madam President, I would like Another category of crime that has gone a little under radar but to which we must pay more attention is fraud. They have increased dramatically in recent years and are making huge use of resources from the police, prosecutors and courts. In 2015, 185,000 fraud offences were reported. In 2016, 194 000 were reported, and the police are far away. About half of the fraud is so-called computer fraud, but it is a broad-ranging sub-category. It's about everything from fake ads on the Block to advanced hacker attacks. Somewhere in between, we find what's called the ID-captures. In order to increase knowledge of ID-encapsulations, UC conducted a survey among people who have been ID-encapsulated. The most striking of the results of the survey is that it is not about any careless pellets that are affected, but it is good people with good economics. Men are slightly more affected than women, and the most vulnerable age group is between 26 and 35 years of age. A clear majority have a university degree and an income of over SEK 400 000 per year. It is also clear that the three metropolitan areas are most affected by this phenomenon. By way of illustration, anyone can be affected, for example, by the security services company Securitas CEO. Another person is Leif GW Persson himself. In the previous case, it was very serious, and it became difficult to sort things out with high costs as a result. In the latter case, it was easier crime but still with the proposed method of hijacking someone's identity. The most common form of fraud is that someone has ordered goods in the name of the victim closely followed by the drawing of telephone subscriptions and credit cards. The amount the scammer tries to get over varies greatly, but more than 60 percent of the victims say it is 10 000 kroner or more. According to the police, hijacking is a profitable crime that is relatively easy to carry out, although we have introduced a hijacking crime. Unfortunately, the risk of getting caught is rather small, and if the fraudsters get caught, the penalties are low. This combined means that many former violent criminals – criminals who have engaged in other forms of crime – have changed their course and are instead engaged in ID-encapsulation. Controlling the legal framework for identity documents is one way of making it more difficult for fraudsters to commit these crimes. It is therefore absolutely excellent that we now have a majority in favour of this too. Something that we did not come all the way with this time is based on another modus shift among criminals, namely fraud and crime linked to the welfare systems and the LSS. In some way, it seems that criminals are always one step ahead in finding new ways to exploit the weaknesses of the systems. There is no doubt that private companies have much to give in terms of the development of welfare services. They constantly demonstrate how activities can be made more efficient and offer higher quality and greater benefits to those who need the services. At the same time, we risk opening up to fraudulent activities that are not at all about developing a good business and making money out of honest success but about committing crime. Here, law enforcement authorities must be much better. I would therefore like to call for reservation 5 under paragraph 7 on breaches of welfare systems. The report contains other very important proposals. I support all the reservations of the Alliance and the Center Party, but for the sake of time, I only call for reservation 5.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-108	Madam President, I would like This police report addresses a number of important aspects. As some of our colleagues mentioned earlier, the situation with regard to police understaffing and underfunding is extremely serious. Of course, it affects in the form of shortcomings in the working environment and, not least, working conditions for police officers in external service. We agree with our reservations about the report, but I would like to highlight in particular reservation 8 on redeploying police duties. When the police went out last autumn and announced that they do not have time to investigate serious violent crimes, reported rape or sexual crimes, it sent a warning to responsible politicians. A few months before, the National Police had said to the government: If we do not have more resources, we will have to lay off 1 000 employees. As a result, the government has had to intervene urgently to stop savings that are in the pipeline. Madam President, I would like I travel around the police regions every week know that there are still savings in Swedish police. That is why we are coming back with demands in the report to streamline the police's tasks. Understaffing, saving, police shortages and leaving the profession make the task of refining police duties even more important. Madam President, I would like There is nothing that provokes me more than when I hear Social Democratic representatives right up to Prime Minister Löfven who is standing on press meetings and says: There is nothing more important than renouncing police work so that they can focus on maintaining law and order and preventing crime. But nothing's happening. There is a reason why we regularly submit the requirement to the Riksdag to streamline the police's duties. The Social Democrats say here in a reply that animal welfare is on the way to being moved. But it hasn't been moved. It's been investigated by us since 2014. The report came in 2016. Now we write 2018, and nothing has yet happened. Cops can't keep going around taking care of found animals. It must be transferred to the County Administrative Board. It is good that there is a proposal in the pipeline. But it's been running out of time. It would have been implemented by the end of the year under the original plan. We in the Liberals also demand, and we have also raised a motion, that responsibility for drunk people be transferred to health care in the first place. The Social Democrats reply in the report that it has been implemented in principle. That's not true. It is the police who are legally responsible for drunk people. Madam President, I would like Over the past five years, at least 30 people have died in police arrest because of misjudgements made by the Police Authority. The reason is that police officers are not trained to make medical assessments of people who have made an over-intake of drugs, alcohol or, for that matter, drugs. It is health care that must make such assessments. No, the responsibility for drunk people has not been transferred to health care. Referring to a project that started in 2014 under the alliance government, which lasted until 2016 and is evaluated is not the same. With regard to the Prison Service, there has been an ongoing activity for almost a year in which some responsibility has been transferred to the Prison Service. But I also hear that there have been major problems at the start and that, for example, the Migration Agency and those working in custody are not entirely satisfied with the development. We won't settle for that. We want the investigation to be reopened to streamline the police's duties. A request was made by the majority of the Riksdag to return with such a decision by 1 March at the latest. Now we have passed March 1st. We're in April. The government and the Social Democrats in particular are totally disregarding Parliament's decisions regarding the mission to streamline. I want an answer today from the Social Democrats. Why don't you deliver what Parliament has repeatedly demanded of the government? You cannot stand by and say that the most important thing is pure police work, and you do nothing about it. It's not credible. Madam President, I would like As a consequence of the police shortage and understaffing, the Liberals are anxious that we invest in security guards during a transitional period. In our previous budget exercise, we have proposed 2 000 municipal security officers. We are the only party in Parliament to set aside 500 million in its shadow budget to finance those security guards. We have seen that municipal security costs are increasing dramatically. Why? It is a consequence of the fact that we have almost 1 000 fewer police officers in the country, and that is a consequence of the policy of the Social Democrats. In conclusion, in the debate on this report, I would particularly like to touch on the motions we have brought about to tackle the arms smuggling of illegal weapons and, in particular, hand grenades. Here, too, we have put forward a number of proposals to tighten up the Customs Agency's mandate to intervene. The changes that have been made are not enough. Liberals say: Strengthen customs, introduce a new offence – particularly serious smuggling crimes – and tighten the penalties. Here, too, we believe that the government is acting far too paralysed.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-124	Madam President, I would like The police, which we are debating today, are a central function of society. It is extremely important to ensure our security and internal security. When we talk about it, it is important to remember that the function is built up by those who have chosen to work as police officers. Every day in their daily work, enormous efforts are made. We must be very grateful for that. We know the situation is strained. We have the lowest police density in Sweden in ten years. We Christian Democrats have proposed 10 000 more police officers. There are no shortcuts. More police officers are needed in external service and investigation activities, i.e. in the core business, in order for the police to meet the challenges they have to ensure the security and freedom of citizens in Sweden. We also need an investment in higher wages and better working conditions in order for more people to stay in the profession and to attract more people to the police training. Record numbers of young people under the age of 40 have chosen to quit. With the report that we are debating today, the Christian Democrats are getting through a motion that the whole committee and the whole Parliament will support. It's about increasing the safety of hospitals. Strong action is needed to address the problems that exist. Healthcare professionals, of course, have experience in dealing with complicated patients and fractions arise in strained situations. But it is one thing to have perhaps a troublesome patient and another to deal with large groups of people who either want to harm a patient or the staff. Therefore, more measures are needed that strengthen the safety of patients and staff and that the police are well placed to prevent disorder. Unauthorised people who enter hospitals, are involved in disrupting the order, threatening staff and making care difficult must be able to be more easily rejected from the hospital. The Christian Democrats want a restraining order for known troublemakers similar to the access bans currently in place at sporting events. Staff must be protected and given the opportunity to do their job. But it is also a question of ensuring the safety of patients who have the right to safe care. Threats and violence against patients and staff are totally unacceptable and must be stopped. The problem is widespread, Madam President. The police state in a report that, for example, domestic and social services are subjected to harassment. This applies both to threats to individual administrators and damage to buildings. According to a report from the Police Federation, seven out of ten police officers feel that the vulnerability to threats and violence has only increased in the last two years. Criminals arrested threaten the police by telling them that they know where they and their family members live. This is something that society must react sharply to. When a police officer is threatened, the rule of law is threatened. The police must be protected. However, attacks on vital social functions do not stop at social services or police. Threats to health professionals are increasing, as I said in the introduction, in hospitals in several major cities around Sweden. According to a study carried out by SVT, it is not only in the metropolitan regions that threatening situations are increasing. Even in hospitals in Norrköping, Borås, Västerås and Uppsala, to take some examples, the problems increase. In Uppsala, an emergency nurse testifies that there may be gangs of 50 people who call their staff gender words and threaten them to die. The threats are so common that staff do not even always take them seriously. So far, the normalization of threatening b eteende has gone to our hospitals. In Malmö, the staff at Skåne University Hospital tell us that they have been threatened with life in situations related to gang-related violence. The problems occur, among other things, when relatives and friends of the injured person gather in the waiting rooms. Threats and violence in health care and long-term care lead to psychological, physical and economic consequences for the victim, the workplace and society as a whole. Both care recipients and employees may experience concerns about being subjected to violence in healthcare. It is both a serious health care problem and a health and safety problem. We see – and this is a sign of it – a spiral of violence that has now entered hospitals. All in all, all of this contributes to an attack on vital social functions, which seems to be seriously damaging to basic standards in society. If a social services office or hospital cannot be protected from attack, there will soon be no places in the community that are. It is particularly serious when attacks affect those who try to save lives, a fundamental task for the state. In the case of organised attacks against persons employed in vital functions, penalties should be increased, especially when the attacks are organised. There is a need for stronger criminal protection for health professionals, as the committee agrees, but more action is needed. That is why I am pleased that the Riksdag will today support the Christian Democrats' motion to increase hospital safety and review the additional measures that need to be taken to strengthen the safety of patients and staff and to provide the police with the means to prevent disorder. Unauthorised people who enter hospitals and interfere with order, threaten staff and make care difficult must be able to be more easily rejected from the site. Madam President, I would like I also support the other reservations that we have made in this report, as well as the announcements. It is a reservation about the police having to have better skills to work online. We see online hatred spreading, and we know, of course, that many today do not draw any line between what is happening online and what is happening in physical reality. It's just as real online. The Internet must not be a lawless country, and therefore the police must have better skills, as we describe in reservation 2. For time winning, however, I only agree to reservation 5, which Johan Hedin presented in a previous post.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-139	Madam President, I would like So today we are debating police issues. When I entered Parliament in 2010 and started working on police issues in the Committee on Justice, the issue was not nearly as hot as it is today. There's a very big difference. Today, of course, the important issues of crime and the police are some of the most debated politically. Sweden should of course have a judicial system that works well. Today we are talking about the police, but we should remember that the reinforcements that we need to do concern all parts of the justice chain. Yesterday, the SOM Institute's report showed that the trend in confidence in the police has now reversed after two years of falling figures. The share of those who now have a high level of confidence in the police is 58 per cent, which is an increase of 6 percentage points. It feels good, but of course we need to work with the police so that even more people feel a lot of confidence. The SOM Institute is, if anyone thinks about it, an independent opinion- and survey organisation at the University of Gothenburg that measures, among other things, the attitudes of Swedes. When I listen to this and many other debates, it is easy to note that it works so in politics that some parties sit at the government and, as you know, they can switch. That's when you do certain things. Others are in opposition and question or bid over, just as it should be. Of course, it'll be an election year, especially scratchy. I note, as the Moderates predicted earlier in the debate, that the present government, together with the Left Party, is now using its government power to make the greatest effort on the police as we have seen in modern times. We didn't see that with the Alliance government. Nevertheless, Krister Hammarbergh boasted of this earlier, and there is no need to dig very deep into it. You make the priorities you do, and there are many reasons for that. We must also remember that the Alliance's budgets steered well into this parliamentary term, and then we could not see this effort on the police. If we had maintained the previously high rate of training for new police officers, we might not have been in the position we are in right now. Under the alliance government, a major and important training effort was made to reach 20,000 police officers. Then something happened, and far fewer policemen were trained. Why was the pace of education slowed down? It takes a bunch of years to train new police officers, which is why we are now lagging behind. Unfortunately, the fact that we have stepped up does not mean that we will be done with this tomorrow, but if you look at mathematics, it now looks as if we have been at about the same level since 2010 and up to now in terms of the number of police officers. It will be somewhat higher when this term of office is over than it was when it began. The population is growing, and there will be fewer police per inhabitant. It is simple mathematics, of course, and we are doing something about it now. We agree to do so, and I think that is an enormous strength. The government also announces that it will closely monitor developments in order for the police, as well as the other judiciary, to have the best conditions in the future. Of course, that people should want to work in the Police Authority as police officers or as civilian employees is crucial for how well we can get in the business. To hold on to this in the future, we need to know that there is a structured work. It does, and it takes a lot of the police. It has been some time since the reorganisation that we did entered into force on 1 January 2015. It was the biggest reorganisation in a government agency in a very long time. The aim was to achieve clearer governance, better conditions, higher quality, increased cost efficiency and, of course, improved results. So we're on the move. Yesterday we had a national transparency council with the police, and then the new chief police officer Anders Thornberg stated that the organisation is almost set – some diffs still exist – and that he does not intend to change any major things in it unless something actually has to be changed. If he sees those needs, he will be able to do so. What we need to do is simply man the organization so that we get more cops filling out the suit. The government's goal is for the Police Authority to have 10,000 more employees in 2024. With a little plus and minus, I can see that that is about the same goal that we have right across politics. That means there's gonna be 6,000 more cops than there are today. On the whole, in terms of both police officers and civil servants, this means that until 2024 the Police Authority will have to recruit 22 000 new employees. If we are so lucky that people are sitting at home, perhaps young people on their way to the labour market, looking at the debate and thinking about what to spend their time on in the future, if they want to be sure of getting a good job, I would really like to advertise that they are going to the police. I understand that the Police Authority itself has really understood the seriousness of how to work with being an attractive employer. The police, as I said earlier, are doing a thorough job with a view to precisely 2024. It is said that it is feasible for the agency to grow, and it is mainly local police areas that need to be manned. But we also received a message yesterday at the Transparency Council, namely that political agreement and political perseverance are important for the work to work in the future. That is a call that we must all take on board. So the police are doing their part of the work, and the government is following up. This means that the government is also able to correct various things as needed. I would also like to say that the police do not operate in a vacuum. The police cannot be the authority that will solve the problems that have arisen in society. The success of the police, the conditions for the police to do what they are supposed to do, depend on how other authorities do their job. Do the schools manage to give students such a good education so that they get approved grades? The best crime prevention work we know is that students manage their schooling. Is psychiatry able to take care of the people in need of care, or will the police have to spend their time meeting people who feel bad? Will the social services of municipalities be sufficiently staffed to receive reports of concern for young people in need of support? Otherwise, the police will have to pick them up. To conclude, I would like to mention that, in addition to the financial investment we are making on the police, the government and the Left also spend a lot of money on the welfare work of municipalities, county councils and regions – except that those activities also need to grow simply so that the police do not stand alone and solve the problems that arise when society does not function properly.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-159	Madam President, I would like For the sake of order, I would like to endorse our reservation 8 in the report because it became unclear from the speaker's seat. I have listened carefully to Elin Lundgren, and she did not comment at all on the question of renouncing police duties. Elin Lundgren says that the Police Authority has understood the seriousness and is taking action. The question is whether the Social Democrats and the government have understood the seriousness. You obviously haven't. Here you are talking about more places in police training when there are hundreds of empty places you. This semester, there's 250 empty seats. You don't say much about the understaffing. Well, you say you want 10,000 more police employees by 2024. It's completely unrealistic. No one I know believes in those numbers, not even the higher education institutions. How do you examine that statement linked to your credibility? A year ago, you wanted to add only $100 million to the police department. Can Elin Lundgren tell me how 100 million, of which 75 million would go to the police and 25 million to measures against cabotage, would contribute to expanding with civilians and police to 2024? It doesn't make any sense. But the main question is: Why do you not deliver what the Riksdag has decided on in terms of renouncing the police's duties, given the working environment in which the remaining police officers and civilian employees work?
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-163	Madam President, I would like Roger Haddad is asking about the clean-up of police duties. We have discussed this before. We also learned something in Rogers's speech about the two big things that have been lifted away from the police, including the transport of people, who have been lifted over to the Correctional Services, and taking care of animals, which have been lifted over to the county administrative boards. Roger Haddad pointed out how difficult it is to remove large skids from the police. It should definitely be done. That means that those things should be lifted over to someone else who will be responsible. Roger knows, like me, that this has been difficult and has not been very well received by the authorities that are to take over the tasks. I am not saying that this should not be done, but I am also saying that such things are not done in a flash. Sometimes it is referred to a closed investigation to be reopened. If I have understood Roger Haddad correctly, apart from the things we have mentioned, it is a question of lifting off from police inspections of mining holes and carnival. I think I am well informed on this point. We discussed the issue yesterday with Anders Thornberg at the Transparency Council – with all due respect that Roger Haddad is not sitting there. Then it's no wonder he doesn't know. What Anders Thornberg told us was that there is currently a discussion between the police and the government on how to proceed with these issues. I feel confident that the police and the Minister will continue to have these discussions on how to streamline police activities, which we agree is important, so that the police can engage in their core business.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-167	Madam President, I would like In the report that is on our table today, the latest announcement has been made that the government will return by 1 March with a new investigation into reshaping the police's duties or resuming the old investigation. It is not just about mines, it is also about permits and the passport issue. However, the directive said that other examples of reindeer farming could also be mentioned. Then the policy will have to assess whether it is legally certain and the best solution to delete a data or whether it should remain. What your government ministers did in February 2015 was actively take the decision to close the investigation. The report of last autumn, when the decision was taken, clearly mentions that the government has not taken any other initiatives to streamline police work. I believe that the debate is not connected. It is believed that the police are understaffed and underfunded and that many leave the police profession due to stress and pressure. But making the police profession attractive is not just about pay, it is also about management, mandate, structure and getting resources all the way down to the local police area. It is also a question of renouncing the police's duties. That is why the Liberals are so committed to this issue, and that is why we are critical of how the Social Democrats have dealt with it.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-171	Madam President, I would like Then I repeat that I am informed that the dialogue is going on, precisely to get a good clean-up of the tasks in the future. I also understood that Roger Haddad did not want to problematise that it may not be as easy as we wish to remove tasks from the police to other authorities. That is, of course, something we need to take into account. Roger Haddad also mentioned in his first speech the importance of more police officers. I would like to take this opportunity to ask him, or anyone else, why you switched off the pace of education in 2010 as regards the training of new police officers.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-173	Madam President, I would like Once again, there was talk of the stakes. But let us now be honest and state that the efforts you have talked about so many times are a mission you have given to a different government than your own. It has always been written far ahead in the future. During this term of office, the police have had problems with the economy because the police have been underfunded. Let's be that honest. Yes, there was a meeting of the Transparency Council yesterday, and I think the chief of police was clear. Yes, he believes, as Roger Haddad points out, that the police's duties must be reviewed. Elin Lundgren! It's not the chief of police's responsibility. It's the Justice Department's responsibility. It's the Justice Department that owns the rules. It's time to do something. The Head of the National Police also stated that in terms of staffing it will be a tough year. That's the information we got yesterday. The question has become hot, Elin Lundgren said. Yeah, that's how it works in politics. When things don't work, it gets hot. When things work, it doesn't get hot. Then it is not a debate. Then people are happy. When the Alliance was in power, the question was not hot. Now it's hot. Why? Yeah, it's not working. It is not enough, as the only policy, to blame the Alliance and then hope for luck. If we're lucky, we'll be able to man. It is not enough as politics. One must also have one's own policy. It would be good if Elin Lundgren could tell us how many police officers have stopped since you took over government power. It is still a fact that there were more police officers during the Alliance's time, and in my opinion and according to the figures I have from the police there have been fewer during this period. How many people have quit?
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-180	Madam President, I would like I don't have that math in my head. However, I note exactly what I said in my speech: there have been about the same number of police officers, plus minus a few hundred, all the time since 2010. What Krister Hammarbergh said earlier in his speech, that as many police officers ended the first two months of this year as the previous one, is also not true. The difference is extremely marginal, but the fact is that there are fewer. We also learned that from June last year, the pace of how many people quit with the police fell off. Then the trend turned. That's good. We are in complete agreement that we need more police officers. We've been discussing that all along. But as I said, if the calculations are correct, we will have more police officers when this term of office is over than when this term of office began. In order not to be merely rhetorical, I ask Krister Hammarbergh: Why did the Alliance government cut off the training of police officers during its reign?
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-184	Madam President, I would like Now you are there again – the only policy you have is to blame the Alliance. It takes two years to train a cop. You've been in government for four years. Police training was dimensioned after 20,000 police officers, and it was at that level then. Then, during your reign, there has been a crisis when more and more police officers have stopped. Then you have to adjust this quickly. You've been waiting for that for years. You've been in government for four years. It is no longer enough to blame the Alliance. You have to do something yourself. Elin Lundgren could thus say that we have fewer police officers than before. She says a similar number; she does not want to take the word less in her mouth. But let us get back to the discussion on how to fill the training places. After all, it is not enough for us to have more training places if we do not have more students. Then luck is not enough, in my opinion. We have to make some kind of bets. We must make the work attractive in terms of wages and equipment. We need to take a new approach to education. Do you social democrats have a plan for how to make the police profession more attractive? I've never heard you talk about it.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-189	Madam President, I would like I know the Moderates are happy to refer to the fact that we have a police crisis and want us to take that word in our mouth, so now I did. If we now have a so-called police crisis, then we can see that it has arisen after eight years of rule by the Alliance. I also notice that I do not get a good answer as to why more police officers have not been trained. It can't be that you suddenly found out that you would have it now but not in 2014. It is also said that we have no plans. We have just presented the initiatives we want to make. Yet it is said that we only hope for luck. I find that very tricky. As far as police training is concerned, we have been clear that we will open two new police schools in new parts of the country. We know it's all about supply and demand. If access to education is increased, we think that more people will apply. Another thing that we believe is important when it comes to police training is to invest in distance training of various kinds. I come from Gävleborg, a part of the country that is really lifted by the fact that it has become possible to study as a police officer in my county. I think we need to make big efforts so that people who do not want to move to study can stay and do a great job where they live. A third thing we want to do is to turn police education into a higher education programme, which we believe would attract more applicants than today's education.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-195	Madam President, I would like The speech by Elin Lundgren, the Social Democrats and the Government raises a lot of supplementary questions. First of all, for the first time, we heard the representatives of a government party talking about police officers in relation to the population. When I have raised this issue with Anders Ygeman in the past, he has argued that this comparison is completely irrelevant. There's a question I'll come to later. But first I have a question about the number of police training places. We are told here that the reason why it looks like it is today is that the Alliance pulled down in training places in 2010. My specific question is: what was the Social Democrats' proposal for training places in 2010? We can also take it for 2011, 2012 and 2013. What did it look like? Did you suggest that we train more police officers? Otherwise, your criticism of the Alliance will be completely irrelevant. But it was during your time in opposition. We can go on. What did it look like when you took office as a government in the autumn of 2014? How many places had the government and the Social Democrats proposed? What did it look like in 2015 and 2016? I would like an answer to that in order to put this in some sort of reasonable relation to the criticism you make of the Alliance government. I, too, am certainly critical of it. However, unlike the Social Democrats, we have had a different policy and ambition from the first day of this parliamentary term when we proposed training 7 000 more police officers.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-199	My second question is: will you continue to have a training rate for police officers who relate to the demographic development of our country?
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-200	Madam President, I would like Adam Marttinen is right that we have not had a different proposal. The reason I am asking this question to the Moderates is, of course, that they are criticising us so strongly now and want to point out that the number of police officers would be our only fault. I think I'd like to say that we have a joint responsibility for that. Of course, the number of police officers that Adam started talking about is very important. But it's also about what the police actually do. We have not talked about this much in this debate. Is there enough police research in this country? Are the most modern methods used? I just want to take this opportunity to say in this line shift. It is easy for us to get caught up in the number of police officers and even civilian employees. It is not irrelevant at all; on the contrary, we agree that many are needed. But it is also extremely important what working methods you work with and what conditions you have. Earlier in the debate, for example, there was talk of cybercrime. We know that child abuse is an example of serious online crime. The fact that you have sufficient competence to work with this is very important, and then the number is not important, but the competence.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-202	Madam President, I would like Thank you for clarifying that there is a common debt in relation to the previous term of office and before that! If you have an education rate that sets a target of a number of police officers and then ignores what happens to society in general, it is clear that you will have problems. That is why the Swedish Democrats have proposed to relate the number of places of education to population development so that the police's capacity is always in relation to the population increase. Otherwise, we come to the point where population development has increased significantly and the police organisation is undersized for the mission it faces. Sure, we can agree on a joint responsibility in opposition. But then we come to today's situation, where the Social Democrats and the Red Green Government have been responsible since 2014. Then I would like to ask: what have the training places looked like there? In fact, it is your responsibility to answer the question why we have so few police officers today, and it is your responsibility in the government to answer the question why you did not propose more training places during this term of office until autumn 2017. That's my second question. If criticism of someone else in any other context is to be relevant, you must be able to respond to what you have done during this term of office. How many more training places have we received during this term of office, until today's date? If you're going to train more cops, you can't just go from zero to 100 in a year. Then you'll get in trouble. This is what we have seen in our training places. It's hard to get as many more in as the government now says you need. This is also one of the reasons why we will not achieve the government's proposed target of 10 000 more police workers by 2024. Another part, of course, which many have been into, is the attractiveness of the profession. Many parties in opposition, including the Swedish Democrats, propose to look at the issue of wages and take a greater responsibility for it to ensure that more people apply for education. There are two things the government has failed to do.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-208	Madam President, I would like What the government has done during this term of office is to look at what police training should look like. I mentioned that we have looked at the possibility of turning it into a higher education institution. Unfortunately, we have not yet received a proposal there. We have set the target of 6 000 police officers by 2024, and we have dimensioned the training for it. We have opened a new police training course, and there will be another one, as I have already explained. This means that we have every opportunity to achieve our goal. I would like to tell you one more thing that has made it more difficult to get police officers into the existing training places, namely the dismantling of the Recruiting Authority, which has managed the admission to police training. It is also that authority that tests conscripts. It was dismantled, and I am not saying that because it is a political game, under the alliance government. It is really only now that you are back with full capacity to be able to test everyone who is eager to become police officers. As far as the issue of wages is concerned, my simple view is that it should be resolved between the parties. The salaries of the police should certainly be financed by politics, but we should not interfere with how high they should be. Adam Marttinen said that you can't ignore what happens in society otherwise and just talk about the effort on the police. I very much agree with that. That is why crime prevention is one of the most important things we do, as I have mentioned before. About a year ago the police released a crime prevention programme, with many efforts and money to prevent crime so that the police simply get less work to do – about caring about what happens in society in general.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-213	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating police issues – a large number of motion reports on police work, methods, priorities, equipment, etc. I would like to begin by thanking all those who are currently working in the Swedish police, police officers as well as civil servants, who are doing a very good job in order for our society to be safe and for the rest of us to be able to operate in our different roles. The work of the police is incredibly important, not least in those areas where the police are now mobilizing to counter the crime where it has gained far too strong a hold, so-called particularly vulnerable areas. It is important for confidence in democracy and society, for human rights to be upheld for all, for women to feel as safe on the street as men and for combating domestic violence, honour violence and sexual crime. I am pleased to see that the police have now soon filled many of our detention centres with those who have committed serious crimes. There are great challenges. But let us not only paint black; let us also rejoice when shootings decrease. For there is a lot of hard work behind this, the work of police officers in our country. If we as politicians never stop and see and thank them for their work, it is we who harm the attractiveness of the profession. Then we also owe less than we need to seek. The fact is that there are not fewer of us who want to become police officers, but we are the ones who have raised the level of ambition. Now it is up to us to make sure that there are even more people who want to shoulder the important responsibility of being a police officer in our country. Yesterday we saw how the independent SOM Institute presented new figures showing that confidence in the police is increasing among the Swedish people. I think that the police deserve every percentage of the increase, not least after the incredibly fine action we saw after the terrorist attack on Drottninggatan. I think this is a contributing factor. Meanwhile, many, politicians and others, talked about how important the police were and how well they were doing their work. That's what matters. Another measure that is important to make the police profession more attractive is education. Madam President, I would like I am extremely pleased that the Moderates are now opening the way for us to come together to jointly modernise police training. The Green Party has made a choice to make police training a real university education. The teaching institutions have already begun that work, because they see that it makes their education more attractive and that the training that is being offered to police students today is so good that you actually deserve credits, just like nurses, who also study to practical professions. I'm really looking forward to further conversations. We will ensure that police education is given a higher status and better linked to research, so that the police methods used can be sharpened and so that we can be at the forefront and have a police officer who learns from research but, above all, can also research. You shouldn't have to have another education in order to be able to research police methods. Actually, cops are supposed to be able to do that, but that's not the case today. Madam President, I would like I was going to keep away from the political squabble, as it is sometimes called. Although it is probably so important to highlight differences, I would also like to highlight some joint efforts that we have made. During the past parliamentary term, we have had very good cross-block cooperation on one of the most important issues in the area of justice policy in recent years, namely the fight against terrorism. I am pleased to see in today's report that the bourgeois parties, who are happy to make announcements about everything the government is already working on, have actually kept to a point concerning precisely the fight against terrorism. It's about investing in equipment. They have also seen that the government's work is going on here. We're spending 200 million on our change budget to make sure the police have good equipment in case the worst happens. Madam President, I would like There is much more to say, but I have already oversold my speaking time. I would like to conclude by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-224	Madam President, I would like I think you should be very careful when it comes to shootings. Let us hope now that we can stop them. However, it is quite daring to say that the shootings are decreasing. They were slightly fewer during the month of February, but there were 14 of them. There is little reason to be satisfied with those figures. In a historical perspective, we still have a great many shootings, to be pointed out. Of course, it is absolutely right to thank the police when they do a good job. But I think we also need to be more firm. Then you have to dare talk about police pay. I miss this with the Green Party. I note that the Green Party is still stuck on the issue of education, which is that all those who train to be police are to do research in police training. We can see that nothing is happening. We have said that we need a new grip. I call on the Green Party to reconsider this issue. The government has added 200 million extra. So you line up a variety of measures that this should be sufficient and spend some disposable money on protective equipment. We have abstained from the reservation for that very reason. However, if Annika Hirvonen Falk reads on in the report, she will see that we still have a special opinion saying that this must be a more long-term effort. It is not just a question of combating terrorism. All police officers must wear protective equipment even in their normal job. Policemen often say that they feel frustrated that criminals – it's about people who commit crimes time and again – come back out on the street just a few hours after they're arrested. That's why policemen often talk about sanctions. Annika Hirvonen Falk has for several years used to say that punishment is not good and that no one gets better by it. She says something like, leave them alone! So the discussion has gone. Now I was going to ask you, Annika: Have you changed your mind? Are you still against punishment, or can you think of tougher sanctions?
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-230	Madam President, I would like If you cannot criticise what your opponents have said, you must make up your mind to criticise something that they have not said. I never said we shouldn't have any punishment. As far as police research is concerned, it is important to know that training as a police officer and working as a police officer is not enough to do research on police work today. Today, our good police officers do not qualify for research except if they have also obtained a legal education, a social welfare education or some other higher education. I think it's wrong. I think that police officers should be given the necessary skills to also be able to research in their own field. This does not mean that all police officers should become scientists. However, this means – and I hope we agree on this – that all police officers should be able to take on police research, so that our police officers will be at the forefront of various areas of their work. Swedish police are already very good in many areas, and I want that knowledge to be taken into account in police research as well. Krister Hammarbergh, it is absolutely right that every shooting is incredibly serious. That is also why every shooting that the police manage to prevent and prevent is so important. I think we need more balance in the discussion.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-234	Madam President, I would like It is clear that the Green Party is stuck on the issue of education. You can't move on. I hope your partner party can think a little deeper. We have put forward new proposals. We believe in basic education followed by work and then further training. There you can surely take more academic points and immerse yourself. But we have got a lock on the issue, and nothing has happened. We can both say that. Then I was a little surprised. I can produce parliamentary records from many debates in which the representatives of the Green Party – in fact you yourself, Annika Hirvonen Falk – criticise harsher sanctions. The Green Party has discussed the fact that punishment does not help. I am a little surprised that this is now denied. Of course, it is good if you have changed your mind, because I think the opinion you have had has been wrong. But you have to be able to stand up for what you've said, right? Have you changed your mind, or are you still as critical of sanctions and penalties as you were at the beginning of this term of office? Look back at what you yourself have said in the parliamentary debates! If you have changed your mind, I can congratulate you, but it is time for clarification on the part of the Green Party.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-238	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the issue of education is beginning to come loose with the Moderates, because that is where the locking has been in place for a long time. I look forward to further discussions on how we can increase the attractiveness of police education by increasing higher education qualifications and making it a higher education. As far as sanctions are concerned, it is good that Krister Hammarbergh corrected himself. If you ask if anyone stands by what has been said, it is important to have correct quotations as well. And there is quite a difference between being against punishment and saying what I have said: that raising penalties does not necessarily mean that crimes are reduced. For example, when it comes to violent crimes committed under the influence of alcohol, one cannot see that the crime is reduced because the penalty is higher. The criminals don't sit and divide if they're going to slap someone drunk: If it's a year in prison, I think I can imagine it, but not if it's one and a half. I still lack an answer to this from Krister Hammarbergh and his colleagues, who want to give the impression that it would be so simple. I believe that the most important thing in reducing the number of crimes committed is for the police to ensure that those who commit crimes and that there is a detection risk. In the research on crime prevention that exists and that Krister Hammarbergh should probably look at, there is no evidence that tougher penalties automatically lead to fewer crimes.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-241	Madam President, I would like We must apologise for floating a little outside the substance of the motions dealt with in the report, but it is an election year, and we are warming up a little. We were told here earlier that the government's best explanation for today's police crisis is that the Alliance government pulled down on training places in 2010. When we called that card, it turned out that none of the government parties had a proposal of their own or wanted anything else. So the blame for today's police crisis is common to the red-green parties together with the alliance parties. In addition, the government has a special responsibility because it has had government power during this term of office, but not until recently expanded training places. Annika Hirvonen Falk, Environmental Party, tells us that one is happy and proud of successful cooperation between the government and the opposition in terms of terrorist law. There should be clarification in this context: it is not the whole opposition that has participated in the cross-block talks with the government, but it is the bourgeois opposition. The government did not want to invite the Swedish Democrats to any such talks, despite the fact that the Swedish Democrats have been pointing out for many years that the Islamic terrorist threat will grow strongly in Sweden while the rest of you denied it. This is a fact today. We can now see the shortcomings that have arisen from the fact that the Swedish Democrats have not been invited to these cross-block talks. It is a question of supplementing the legislation several years after the first round of terrorist legislation was made. It is a question of travelling to a country of citizenship, in other words that the government chose not to criminalise terrorist travel to a country of citizenship. It was something that we spoke of in opposition. This was something we could have contributed if we had been invited to these talks. Even when it comes to participation in terrorist organisations, it is something that the government only now comes up with, but which we proposed already in autumn 2015. So obviously it has not been so successful.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-245	Madam President, I would like There is a very simple explanation why the Swedish Democrats have not been invited to discuss the fight against terrorism. It is that the Swedish Democrats are a party that does not stand up for fundamental principles in a democratic state, such as the rule of law and the rule of law and as human rights and the equal value of all people.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-246	Madam President, I would like That is just qualified nonsense from the Green Party, which may not have such high tails in any debate at all on criminal policy issues. As I pointed out in my first change of line: the government adopted a terrorist law that was flawed. The government itself has stated this. The shortcomings are now to be addressed, two years later, with legislative proposals already presented by the Swedish Democrats. If there had been successful cooperation between government and opposition, there would not have been a need to supplement the legislation with very necessary measures. This applies, for example, to travel to a country of citizenship. In practice, all those who travel to the Middle East for training and training in terrorist wars could be excluded from criminal liability. One can only call the government and ask: Which country should I go to to avoid criminal liability? Then all you say is go to your country of citizenship! This is how all those who travelled during this parliamentary term – it applies until this legislation may be put in place – have been able to be free from punishment, quite simply. This is the effect of your policy on the area of terror. You are adopting laws with very large holes in which very few can be prosecuted for the crimes that you intend to deal with. This applies above all, as I mentioned, to travel to the country of citizenship and participation in terrorist organisations. These are two issues that the Swedish Democrats raised already in autumn 2015 but which the government avoided for various reasons. Now you're going to try to correct it afterwards. We have had two years of a situation where these things have not been resolved or where terrorism could be combated in a Swedish responsible way. It's the government's fault. It's Annika Hirvonen Falk's fault. It is partly also the fault of the bourgeois opposition. It is the result of your successful cross-block terrorist legislation.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-251	Madam President, I would like There are major challenges with the legislation on terrorism, as it has been. It has been a patchwork of a number of different laws, with references to many different conventions that have come about over a number of years. We have wanted to correct this. Therefore, the government has set up an investigation to review the whole of the terror legislation and simply to make it both more effective and more legally secure. At the same time, the fact that the government has come forward with a series of proposals at a fairly rapid pace is due to the fact that we have seen challenges where behaviour has changed among those who want to commit these serious crimes. Then the government does not wait for us to get the optimally thought-out review, but then the government acts quickly. This means that legislation has been put in place in several steps to enable the most pressing problems to be rectified quickly, while at the same time there is ongoing long-term work to ensure that terrorism legislation as a whole is comprehensive and effective.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-254	Madam President, I would like I'll talk about procedural matters. We have just debated police matters, and procedural matters are necessary to make the criminal law rules work. If there is no procedural law, the criminal law rules will not be reached, and they will not do so unless there is evidence. These are about 60 claims from the general exercise period. More specifically, it is about how to secure evidence and ensure that crimes are investigated and how coercive measures can be used and what opportunities exist for such coercive measures. It can also be about rules on investigations, when pre-investigations can be closed and under what conditions. It is also a question of the protection of witnesses, so that the civil duty to testify can be fulfilled. It's probably so important for us to have a functioning judicial system. To secure evidence and that the procedural issues are well dealt with is probably so important. I cannot help but raise the question raised in the debate just before this. Adam Marttinen, the Swedish Democrats, asked: Which country can I go to to escape responsibility for a terrorist journey? The answer is probably: you can basically go to any country, because it doesn't matter whether it's criminalised or not. This will be the case if the criminal law rules are not covered by the extension of a functioning procedural law. It is not just a question of travelling on terror, it is actually a question of terrorist crimes and war crimes, where people are being killed. How do we secure evidence when people, for example, go from Sweden or other European countries to Syria and Iraq and commit this kind of crime? It doesn't matter if we have very far-reaching criminal law rules. In the field of terrorism in particular, crime is completed at a very early stage. Then you are completely dependent on this type of regulation working. For time to come, I only call for reservation 3, Madam President. But, of course, we support all our reservations in this report. I will also, a little more specifically, talk about the different areas. We believe that the possibility of using coercive measures should be reviewed. It is a general and broad review that needs to be carried out to see whether the coercive measures currently available to the police and other law enforcement authorities are in line with current technological developments but also with known future and expected technological developments. That is the problem. We're always one step behind. It is a question of trying to keep pace with technological development. It is also about the opportunities offered by technological developments to criminals. Then there is a particular need to review the Security Service's tools for investigating and also detecting terrorist offences, in addition to secret data readings, which resulted from these terrorist discussions. It is, of course, a good thing that such things are agreed in broad agreement, but I would say that the terrorist agreements that have been reached with the government are not sufficient. There are many more claims. I and we will certainly have reason to come back to it at a deeper level in a forthcoming dossier on broader legislation in the field of terrorism. These include the possibility of securing evidence, including for recent criminalisation, which will take place in the field of terrorism, including terrorist travel. Another point I would like to make, which is also what my request was about, is data storage. Following the preliminary ruling by the Court of Justice of the European Union and the subsequent ruling by the Administrative Court of Appeal in the so-called Tele 2 judgment, the conditions for data storage in Sweden have been removed. This, of course, affects the possibility of combating all forms of crime – particularly serious ones – where this type of data can be used. This applies in particular to matters relating to national security and to national interests of protection. National security and national security interests fall outside the competence of the EU, but are nevertheless affected by the decision that actually concerned other situations, since this applies to data storage in general. This is a matter of great urgency. Of course, it is all the more important to look at the severity of the crime that you want to combat – the more serious the crime, the more urgent that it works. This issue is currently the subject of investigation and preparation. However, we believe that this is so urgent that the government should return to Parliament as soon as possible with legislative proposals that create the conditions for the storage and transmission of traffic data to law enforcement authorities at least in respect of crimes that threaten national security. There is a heading that mentions coercive measures during preliminary investigation, but it is more specifically about the rules on seizures and searches. Basically, this type of regulation is technologically neutral. In some cases, however, technological developments are such that rules cannot be applied to the new context because we have something called the principle of legality – one cannot apply this type of legislation when it goes beyond the wording. The legislation must then be adapted. In this case, this means adapting the provisions on seizures and searches to modern technology. This is urgent, and it is a specific issue that falls within the broader scope of the issue. This, too, is the subject of an investigation, and it is of course urgent. Here, too, the government should come back with proposals for the Riksdag to meet these needs. I will also quickly mention something about pre-trial restrictions, which Krister Hammarbergh mentioned during the police debate. It must not be the case that we have a regulatory framework that leads to unnecessary closure of criminal investigations. In this context, it must be borne in mind that there are victims. If there are victims of crime, it is particularly important to investigate crimes for that reason. You should also look at how many victims there are. Actually, it doesn't matter – every victim is worth as much. Nor is it pointless to investigate the crime because the accused is not expected to receive a more severe penalty, but it is also a question of the victim being able to obtain his or her right. One should therefore look at the possibilities of direct dismissal and prosecution. We need more effective handling of shoplifting. There is a specific request to this effect. I've mentioned witness protection. There is much more to be done in this area to make people feel safe when they witness. Finally, consideration should be given to the possibility of giving an appeal to the detriment of the defendant if the defendant has lied about his age and later established an age that would have led to a significantly stricter penalty. This presupposes that it would not have been possible to present data on the correct age at the time of the main hearing.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-274	Madam President, I would like I usually say that, for the Legal Policy of the Center Party, entrepreneurs are both a means and a goal. The heroes who work hard and risk everything to build a business deserve us to see them and take their security situation seriously. Whether it is the grocery store in Klimpfjäll, the computer company in Jordbro, the machine contractor in Ljungby or the clothing store on Kungsholmen, they must feel viewed by the rule of law. They must feel that we take the crimes against them seriously and that their actions are important. This act is important from so many different perspectives. We know from research that exclusion – economic and social – is an important factor in crime. One who grows up in a family that has at some point received support is six times more likely to become a criminal than someone who does not. Entrepreneurs are job creators. Although the connection is certainly more complicated than that, the jobs that entrepreneurs create help more people to get into the heat and can build a future through their own work. Small and rapidly growing companies often have a wider view of talent than large and long-established organizations. With a reasonable regulatory framework in the labour market, more people can get the chance to get into the heat. It would also lead to fewer people getting on the road to crime. Companies such as stores and service stores also have an extremely important security effect through their own presence in an area. They are somewhere where you can get help when needed and where there are people, both those who work in the company and their customers. A local shop that attracts a flow of – in the absence of better words – ordinary people at the same time keep criminal elements away. This is not something I guess, but it is well documented in the research. It is sad enough that entrepreneurs do not always feel seen by us, nor by police and prosecutors. When I visit Ica dealers they always show on the often impossibly collection of reports of thefts that have not led anywhere. There is so much to do in terms of securing the security of entrepreneurs and so much to gain by succeeding in it that it is directly unreasonable not to. Today, I wish we had won the majority in favour of our Alliance-wide motion for a more effective handling of theft crimes in stores, but that was not the case this time. However, it is appropriate to point out that anyone who thinks this is important and wants to see it implemented would do well to vote for one of the Alliance's parties in the autumn elections. I, too, naturally support all the alliance and centre reservations in this report. However, for time-winning, I request only reservation 10 under item 8, concerning theft crimes in stores.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-282	Madam President, I would like This report addresses a number of important issues relating to courts and procedural matters. In particular, I would like to endorse our reservation 13 on anonymous witnesses. Why, then, do I want to comment on this reservation in particular? The reason is that the Liberals here have made a new position on the substance. We have previously been very sceptical and critical of the possibility of using so-called anonymous witnesses in court proceedings. We in the Liberals in this House have for years been raising the issue of vulnerable and particularly vulnerable areas and pointing out the parallel structures that have emerged, not least in particularly vulnerable areas. We have also pointed out the culture of silence that has emerged, where people do not dare to contact the police and do not dare to tip. Of course, this also affects those who will eventually testify in court proceedings. After a new assessment and a number of visits and dialogues with police officers – not least in the big cities – who have raised this issue, we decided at our country meeting in November to require a review of the entire witness protection programme in our legal policy programme and to set up an investigation to look at the possibility of giving anonymous testimony in court proceedings. It cannot be reasonable for witnesses to be intimidated by silence and gang members to frighten citizens to remain silent before the police and to continue to pose a danger to their environment. As a result, organised crime is given more leeway and the fighting between rival groups can continue another lap. We have also seen that a consequence of this is the suspension of trials. Approximately 600 to 800 trials are cancelled each year. We do not know exactly how many are cancelled because of witnesses threatened. However, the Court of Justice and the statistics they produce indicate that this is an important factor in cancelling so many trials. We think it is another argument, because it cannot be reasonable in a rule of law, in a democracy, that we cannot prosecute criminals because witnesses are being silenced. We have also looked at other countries that have this opportunity, and I would like to stress that this should be an opportunity in specific cases, such as killings and gang arrangements. Finland, Norway and Denmark have introduced this possibility in specific cases. In the case of threats to life and health, you should be able to apply this method. The Liberals therefore believe that we should also open up an investigation into anonymous witnesses in Sweden.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-290	Madam President, I would like I would also like to endorse reservation 13 on anonymous witnesses. This is an issue that the Christian Democrats have been pushing for years. We have done and do so in the light of the serious situation that we see in many parts of our country, where gang criminals are taking an increasing space, taking liberties and silencing witnesses through threats, violence and shootings. People who have chosen to witness, despite threats, face consequences such as threats to their loved ones and to themselves. It has also led to shootings at persons who have chosen to witness. How do you dare testify next time when you've been exposed like that? We know there are many who are silent today. What are the consequences? Well, gang criminals who have committed really serious crimes go free on our streets. Victims who are victims of crime are not to be redressed by convictions, because it is not possible to frame gang criminals because they simply do not have the courage to testify. That is why we Christian Democrats think it is a priority to get an anonymous witness order. Sven-Erik-Erik Alhem, who is today chairman of the National Association of Victim Support Finlands, changed his mind a few years ago. We also see that there are several parties that have taken the impression of reality and changed, and we hope that there will be more. Alhem said this in the Ekot a few years ago: For decades I fought against it. But I've changed my mind because I asked myself if I'm prepared to stand as a witness even in the most extreme situations. And when I could not answer a clear yes to the question, I cannot ask it from others either. We Christian Democrats think this is a priority. As Roger Haddad said, there are some countries that have introduced this – Denmark, Norway and Finland. Suggestions to introduce anonymous witnesses tend to get the counter-argument that it threatens legal certainty. As far as these three countries are concerned, we rarely think that these are countries that have thrown all the legal certainty over the table. Our argument should, of course, be taken seriously; it is a legitimate argument. That is why we want to investigate this, so that we have a system of anonymous witnesses as legally as possible. But what happens to the rule of law, with confidence in the state and in the police to get redress if you have been subjected to a crime if we have a system that results in us having gang criminals walking free on the streets even though they may have shot people to death? This is something we take very seriously. The Prime Minister was asked when he was in Malmö at the beginning of the year whether he was prepared to introduce anonymous witnesses. He replied in Sydsvenskan: We have to look at various such possibilities. I then submitted a written question to the Minister of Justice whether the government had a job in progress and what had been done, given that the Prime Minister, as I understood it, opened up to anonymous witnesses. I then received the answer from the Minister of Justice to my written question that the starting point for the Prime Minister in the interview in Sydsvenskan on 23 Jan uari 2018 was that we need to get more people to dare testify against criminals, not open up to a system of anonymous witnesses. I would therefore like to ask the Social Democrats in this debate today whether it is the Prime Minister who is opening up to an opportunity that will apply, as I understood the quote from Sydsvenskan, or whether it is the Minister of Justice's closure of the possibility of having a system of anonymous witnesses that applies. Madam President, I would like So we are talking about anonymous witnesses, who are described in reservation 13 to whom I request approval. I hope that more parties can join this line so that we actually get more convictions and can seriously speed up the crackdown on the increasingly widespread gang crime. That is why we in the Christian Democrats are making this proposal.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-300	Madam President, I would like In this report, which includes motions from the general period of exercise on procedural matters, we have seven reservations on Swedish democrats. But for time winning, I only ask for reservations 2 and 12. Organised crime has taken an increasingly strong hold on our country. This is evident not least in metropolitan areas, where criminal gangs control everyday life in certain areas with threats, violence and internal settlements, and where people even feel afraid to go out into their own residential area. This is extremely serious because it limits the right to freedom and security that all people in our country should have. Sweden is the country in the Nordic countries that, according to the statistics until 2017, had the highest number of shootings. The difference is also marked against other Nordic countries, in relation to the population. While the shootings have decreased in the other Nordic countries, in Sweden they have doubled over a five-year period. This is due to a number of factors: an increase in the influx of illegal weapons, an escalation of violence between criminal gangs and an increase in drug trafficking. But it is not just about this; it is also about theft leagues, the existence of robber leagues and gangs of rapes spreading terror in our cities. Sweden must take seriously the fight against serious organised crime. Then we must also adapt all our instruments accordingly. These are severely increased penalties for serious violent crimes, including various forms of participation, compulsory expulsion of foreign citizens who commit crimes, but also providing the police with all the necessary tools to combat organised crime. The Swedish Democrats are therefore in favour of the use of secret coercive measures. Precisely secret coercive measures have proved to be important in police investigations, not least in the case of serious crimes that affect many. We believe that the regulatory framework is too restrictive today. In order to combat serious organised crime, secret coercive measures must be able to be used in crimes of lower criminal value than is currently the case. We believe, for example, that secret interception of electronic communications and secret camera surveillance should be allowed to be used for the investigation of crimes that do not provide for a minor sentence than prison for a year. Secret room eavesdropping should be used to investigate crimes that prescribe imprisonment for at least two years. Moreover, it is a shortcoming today that secret camera surveillance must not be combined with sound recording. We want to change that too. We are convinced that secret camera surveillance would become more important if sound recordings were to be made. We also believe that it should be permitted to use so-called surplus information in the case of secret coercive measures. It is not reasonable that crime prevention authorities should not make full use of information they have been informed of. Today's legislation thus puts the perpetrator's perspective before the victim's perspective. We propose that the rules on surplus information should be the same for all types of secret coercive measures. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have also expressed their support in previous debates for investigating the possibility of anonymous witnesses. From the beginning, having been alone in this position, several bourgeois parties have now opened up to the idea. We think that is a good thing, although we regret, of course, that the bourgeois parties cannot agree on this issue either. Today, many are afraid to witness, not least in areas under the control of organized gangs, where violence often constitutes a means of threatening or silencing witnesses. Threats to witnesses have become more and more common in Swedish legal proceedings. It is, of course, unreasonable to have a situation in which a witness sits in the same room as these criminals, while the witness knows what can happen if you say something that does not suit the criminals – it can have devastating consequences for yourself or for your family. In addition, the absence of witnesses carries the risk that the criminal will receive a lower sentence, that the offence will be milder or, at worst, that the trial will be cancelled and that the criminal will go free. This is a development that we Swedish democrats want to stop. By introducing the opportunity to testify anonymously, we believe that the propensity to testify, both in police questioning and in court, will increase. More people will take courage and tell us what has happened. It will have a spinoff effect as more criminals are punished for serious crimes. Then more people will have the courage to testify, and then we will be able to fight serious crime.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-313	Madam President, I would like At the moment, we are discussing a motion for a resolution on procedural matters, that is, how it should be done in our courts. The Committee on Justice proposes that the Riksdag reject all claims regarding these matters from the general period of motion 2017. This is mainly due to consideration of ongoing work. The designs concern large and small and cabin and mythical, including issues of on-call courts, anonymous witnesses, data storage and costs for legal counsels. What kind of work has been going on or is going on? During his term of office, the Minister of Justice presented 134 proposals and drafted 100 committee directives for investigations. I thought I would read some of this out, so that we could draw up a summary of this term of office. Among the proposals that have been submitted are Accessibility Service – Trials on a new method of service for faster handling of criminal cases, New rules on the collection of evidence within the EU, Extended possibility of the exclusion of lawyers, Enhanced cooperation between courts, Certain measures for a more efficient and efficient land and environment process, Extended opportunities for migration courts to surrender cases, New sanction after previous rulings, Publicity and confidentiality of information in court decisions, Increased one-jury jurisdiction in litigation, Patent and Market Court, A more modern trial II, Court Data Act, Choice of Court Agreement – 2005 Hague Convention and so on. The latest in the series of investigations is about faster prosecution. What has been very topical is the introduction of on-call courts and in this way the resolution of problems. I was going to show you a little bit how investigator Stefan Strömberg has brought up this matter of on-call courts. He was asked to consider whether to introduce on-call courts or whether there were other ways to speed up trials. It is very common for us in Sweden to look at American detectives. There are on-call courts, and then it seems so good. The investigator writes:中 The investigation has concluded that a round-the-clock emergency court system would create practical conditions for immediate or immediate prosecution, but that the number of cases that could be settled is immediately limited. There are several reasons why the target base would be limited. Even for simple crimes, measures such as interrogation and analysis need to be taken to complete the investigation, which takes some time. Furthermore, the suspect has fundamental rights to reasonable counseling and to prepare his defence. An immediate or immediate prosecution would include: For these reasons be possible only in simple cases that can be completed directly at the scene of the crime and where the suspect renounced the right to reasonable counseling... An order of evening and weekend-open emergency courts does not mean that an immediate prosecution is possible other than in isolated cases. ... The purpose of on-call courts, i.e. To achieve faster prosecution can be achieved in other more cost-effective ways, e.g. through... quick procedures. ..................................................... Many, including myself, feel it is good to make international comparisons. This has also been done by the investigator. We often believe that before we look at the other solutions that we do not have and that they should be introduced here too. However, the investigator notes that pure on-call court solutions are not used to any real extent. What is interesting is that a trial project is now under way with a rapid procedure. The project started on 1 January 2018 and will last for two years. I wonder whether this will not prove to be the solution that we all long for, that is to say, the one that ensures that prosecution goes faster. In addition, it can be noted that many of the movements are handled through ongoing investigations or submitted or future proposals. I therefore call for the proposal in the report to be approved and for all motions to be rejected.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-319	Madam President, I would like Now we have heard from the Social Democrats and Susanne Eberstein what the Social Democrats and the government have done. It is clear that some things have been done in this area. Work is also under way. The criticism on our part is that perhaps a little more effort should be made, especially in the respects I mentioned in my main speech. What I was going to ask about specifically is witness protection. You do not need to talk about individual measures here, but you can talk about what needs to be done in general. This is something that is very fundamental to success, not least in areas that are particularly vulnerable to serious crime, but also in other areas, which are exposed to crime that does not have the highest profile. There is a great deal about confidence in the rule of law. The same is true in the most serious criminal cases. The investigation into procedural law and major criminal cases has submitted an interim report. The actual work on this investigation is quite extensive. The del report suggested that hearings during preliminary investigation and preparation in criminal proceedings, which are very rarely used, should be used to a greater extent. It also proposed more possibilities to use stories submitted during pre-examination. Given that we basically want the work on witness protection to be strengthened and lists a number of different measures: what do the Social Democrats think should not be done there? What is the government's view that there is no need to reinforce against this background?
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-323	Madam President, I would like As far as the protection of witnesses is concerned, I can say that I believe that everyone in this House fully agrees that it is extremely important for the rule of law that witnesses should be able to testify. Now the honourable Member did not bring up anonymous witnesses without witness protection. Of course we must have a very good witness protection. I meet Witness Supporters, and they feel that they are doing an extremely important job. It is very much easier for Witnesses to appear in court when they have a person by their side. I think there is a long way to go before you change the rules on anonymous witnesses, as the KD advocates. For example, you can look at camera surveillance. The legislation on enhanced camera surveillance will support the Witnesses in what has happened. It will make it easier for the witness that there is a camera that has been present and can show what has happened. We are now also going to introduce secret coercive measures, something which, unfortunately, has been long overdue. This too will be able to help Witnesses and tackle gang crime. Brå will now look at this with the witness support and the mechanisms in the culture of silence. It is important that we wait for what they say. We have a committee system in Sweden. We have an investigation system that is very good and accurate. Therefore, it is important that we get a proper basis before moving on.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-326	Madam President, I would like I'm talking about witness protection in a broad sense. Individual measures can never be the solution. One can have different expectations of what anonymous witnesses can contribute in a comprehensive context. But what we do know, from Norway, for example, is that this is possibly useful in a very few cases. We have decided that we think we should look at this issue without preconditions. But there are obvious risks that it will be counterproductive, that many will set it up as an ultimatum and use that one wants to testify anonymously. In other cases you say you don't remember anything. That is not what we want to achieve. Therefore, the basic rules are important. The long-term objective must be for all witnesses to be able to trust that the protection that society can offer is sufficient. It's pretty basic. Today there are many measures. You can have a contact person with the police, you can get your personal data protected and you can get an alarm phone with GPS function, a recording device and acoustic alarm. In particularly serious cases you can get personal protection and possibly also fictitious personal data. I know a number of cases of serious crime where witnesses have received it. We want this work to be strengthened. I do not understand why one cannot say: Yes, the government must strengthen this work. It is about the need to develop and implement protective measures in more cases than at present. It is the lack of what leads to people not testifying. Existing safeguard measures must also be evaluated. In addition, there is a need for improved information to witnesses and to develop police work on risk and threat assessments. I wonder how what I have mentioned is now being catered for. For I cannot see that it is being catered for today. And what, according to the government, is not desirable?
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-332	Madam President, I would like On 1 October 2019, Brå will report on the commission they have received from the government to study the phenomenon of culture of silence and the crime of abuse in legal matters. Brå will highlight the mechanisms behind the emergence and maintenance of culture of silence in, for example, socially vulnerable areas and organised crime. I think we should wait for them to carry out that mission. Then we'll see how we're going to move on.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-334	Madam President, I would like Susanne Eberstein gave credit for the fact that the government has taken a series of measures to ensure the effective functioning of the judiciary. It is central to the rule of law to have a legally secure and effective judiciary that can judge when, for example, serious crimes have been committed. A very important part of bringing serious criminals and, for that matter, also other criminals to justice is that people dare to testify. We have seen women who have been subjected to violence in close relationships who, after the report has been made, choose to no longer participate in the police investigation for fear of being subjected to repeated violence. This is something that the government takes very seriously. The Government has therefore taken steps to support women who have been victims of violence throughout the investigation, so that they dare to participate. For in many cases the victim of the crime is itself the most important person of evidence, that is, the witness. As far as sexual offences are concerned, we know that support from plaintiffs' assistants is central to increasing the prosecution of rapists. The fact that the victim has a competent person who can guide, explain and support the process is incredibly important. And I look forward to the Government's proposal soon being discussed in this House. This report on procedural law highlights a number of motions for resolutions. The committee explains in each case why there is no reason to make specific requests to the government. In conclusion, however, it can be said that the government has ongoing work to achieve more effective investigation and court procedures. I would therefore like to support the proposal in the report on procedural law. Madam President, I would like I shall also stress that it is important for the Green Party not to compromise the rule of law by introducing anonymous witnesses. I am pleased that there is broad agreement in the House in that part.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-340	Madam President, I would like Annika Hirvonen Falk lists a lot of things that need to be done when it comes to witness protection. Yet she says that the government is doing a lot in this area. We have just heard, in the last shift, that an investigation is pending from the Crime Prevention Council. Annika Hirvonen Falk speaks so warmly about this with the need to protect women in particular in order for them to feel safe and possibly also to be able to trust that the protection that society offers is sufficient. I wonder whether these problems exist today or not. If the problems are present today, as one believes when listening to Annika Hirvonen Falk, something should be done. It's not dependent on any investigation. An investigation can give a comprehensive picture, and you can see where the problems are bigger and smaller. However, my view is that there is no doubt whatsoever about their existence. This also applies to the other alliance parties that support the reservation on witness protection, to which we have not, of course, requested approval. In view of what has just been said, I wonder whether protective measures should be developed and applied in more cases than today. If so, it could be an announcement. Or does the Green Party not think so? Is there a need to evaluate the existing protective measures? I think it's obvious. So do the other alliance parties. Don't Annika Hirvonen Falk think so? And is there not reason to develop the police's work on risk and threat assessments because there is no justification for the fear you feel as a witness?
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-345	Madam President, I would like It is a common hold from the opposition to pretend that investigations are not needed, but Swedish investigative services exist to enable politicians to make good decisions. You don't set up an investigation because you don't care. An investigation is set up to answer important questions, such as:
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-348	What are the problems?
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-350	These questions have been put by the government to the Crime Prevention Council and special investigators, for example, because they think there are problems and because they want to find the best solutions. I am very keen that we should strengthen the security and security of people who witness and of people who have been victims of crime and who need to be involved in bringing the guilty person to justice.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-352	Madam President, I would like I don't know if I should thank you for the answer. I know very well how the investigation system works. In addition, a special mission to the Crime Prevention Council is not something that falls within the investigation system. There's something else. This assignment was given to the Crime Prevention Council on 13 December 2017; it is quite recent. The problems have existed all the time from 2014 onwards. Not least given how warm Annika Hirvonen Falk speaks for those who are affected, which I fully understand, I ask again: Is there any reason to develop protective measures for those who do not dare to tell and do not dare to act in court and that they can be taken in more cases than today? Is there a need to evaluate the protective measures? Is it possible that there is also reason to develop the police's work on risk and threat assessments? If the answer is no, say so. If the answer is yes, tell us what the government intends to do. However, do not refer to different explanations about how the investigative system works when it is not even relevant. I want an answer to this question, because this is entirely dependent on how our judicial system can function in the future. It's a civic duty to testify. If one fulfils one's part of the social contract and testifies, then one must be able to rely on the protection one receives from the state. It's not enough to look between your fingers. There are people living with fictitious personal data in other parts of the world today, who are unable to come back and who may also have very limited opportunities to live a good life after they have been, for example, informers to the police. This is a problem. You have to be able to protect people. I would like answers to the questions.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-355	Madam President, I would like For example, when you look at and evaluate the issue of culture of silence, it is very possible that it turns out that some kind of action is needed in accordance with what Anti Avsan is looking for. But it is important that we constantly base our proposals on knowledge. Step one is then that those who are experts in the state also have the opportunity to look at these issues. You get the impression that Anti Avsan is impatient and that he thinks the government is doing nothing. But that's not true. In short, as I said, we will deal with several proposals for changes in support for victims of crime during investigations and court proceedings. Work is under way to further train witness supporters, who have a very important role to play in this context. That is what happens in addition to the investigations that we have already talked about. Madam President, I would like One more thing that is included in the report and which I nevertheless think is relevant here is the proposals and ideas on increased opportunities for both video filming and the use of video footage from interrogation. I believe that this can also be of great importance. Here we also see how new technologies offer opportunities that have not existed before. I think we have a broad consensus on this.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-358	Madam President, I would like We're going to debate the government bill for electronic monitoring of a restraining order. In this respect, we note that the government is taking certain steps in the right direction from a Swedish democratic perspective. However, we are not entirely satisfied, and this is usually the case in most cases when we are discussing criminal sanctions and opportunities for society to intervene against dangerous people. We have taken a greater approach and have taken a line on issues relating to the prohibition of contact throughout the term of office. The fact that the government is meeting us in part is of course positive, but we have a follow-up motion that has rendered some reservations. We know that it remains very difficult for women – it is often women who apply for a restraining order – to have a restraining order issued. It takes a lot of documentation and other types of support to prove that you are in a vulnerable position. This has often led to a very large number of women being refused a restraining order. This is an extremely serious situation. We know that it is very difficult and difficult for women to apply for a restraining order when they are in such a vulnerable situation. It is about 70% who are refused their request for a restraining order. That, of course, is totally unsatisfactory. We want it to be much easier for vulnerable women to have a restraining order issued. It may be a matter of reviewing the type of documentation that is really necessary and of the police being able to do more to help the vulnerable women – which is often the case – in an application for a restraining order to get the necessary documentation to be issued. If an application for a restraining order is rejected, you often do not want to turn to the police again. Then one feels that one has been betrayed by society, because it takes an extreme amount of courage to turn to the legal society when one is in such a vulnerable situation. Of course, many live under very dangerous circumstances – under threats and the like from very dangerous people. There are cases in Sweden where women have applied for a restraining order and received a refusal, which has then led to these women actually being subjected to deadly violence by the person for whom they have wanted a restraining order. For this reason, it is important that, at an earlier stage, tougher measures can be taken against dangerous persons, such as what we are discussing today with regard to electronic monitoring in the event of a restraining order. This is something that strengthens the security of the victim, as this person cannot violate the prohibition of contact in any way. We welcome the fact that steps are being taken in the right direction, but we also want to make this even easier. It should, of course, lead to increased penalties if you violate a restraining order. It must be felt. The rules are clear if a restraining order is issued. There are no excuses for seriously violating a restraining order. If a restraining order is seriously violated, it must also have serious consequences. It is part of our reservations about electronic monitoring of contact bans, namely that this type of behaviour should lead to increased penalties. We also have a reservation about people who have been convicted of serious violence or sexual crimes against their loved ones after serving a sentence being able to be provided with electronic surveillance, precisely to ensure that these people not only receive a sentence for what they have done but also after serving a sentence are given electronic surveillance – which people who have been sentenced for a milder sentence are given – to ensure that the threat to those who have been subjected to a crime is, so to speak, disarmed. This will strengthen victim protection and strengthen the victim perspective in dealing with these cases. I see that the Centre Party's Johan Hedin has not signed up for the list of speakers. I was going to ask him a question in a line shift. I therefore ask a question from the speaker and hope that I can have an answer. With regard to e-monitoring after serving sentences due to aggravated violence or sexual offences against relatives – reservation 7 in this report – the Center Party has shown support for this in 2015 and 2016. You don't do that today. From a Swedish democratic perspective, it is of course welcome that more people adhere to the principle that we should strengthen the victim perspective. In this case, however, fewer parties have joined. Johan Hedin and the Center Party have chosen not to support this reservation, despite the fact that this was supported a few years ago. I would like to know why the Center Party has changed its mind on this issue when it comes to the fact that persons convicted of aggravated violence or sexual offences against their loved ones should not be provided with electronic monitoring after serving a sentence. I would like in some way to receive a response from the Center Party to why there has been a change of opinion on this issue and no longer advocate the existence of electronic monitoring against these people. For this reason, I also call for reservation 7.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-367	Madam President, I would like The Liberals are in favour of reservation 1 and reservation 7 because in the last ten years we have been actively pursuing these issues in parliament, both in alliance government and in opposition. It is good that the government is now coming back with a series of responses to the announcements and demands that we have received in the Committee on Justice in recent years regarding electronic monitoring. Threats and violence against women are Sweden's biggest gender equality problem. It is not enough to focus on women's shelters and support activities, but we also need legislation that works. Unfortunately, we see that, despite the fact that we tightened up legislation in 2014 and that adjustments have also been made since then, it is bureaucratic and difficult to get decisions on so-called electronic surveillance, or anklet in general. This is because there is a staircase: First you have to have a ban on contact, then you have to have a specially extended ban on contact and then you have to get up to a third phase. Only then will it be necessary under the legislation to apply the anklet. Now the government has revised the proposal and made a proposal that we broadly welcome. However, we see that there are a number of shortcomings. The most serious thing, Madam President, is that the government insists that it can only be decided on an electronic ankle for the perpetrator who has already broken a restraining order in the past. It is quite unreasonable to have to wait for a ban on contact without a anklet to be violated. We want both the threat picture and the victim's right to freedom of movement to outweigh today. If there is a serious threat, the electronic anklet requirement shall be included in the contact ban directly. That is what the Liberals have been exercising about. We want this to be decided as a first step. This has previously been investigated by Carin Götblad, who proposed that fines be removed from the penalty scale for those who violate a restraining order. The Liberals have also exercised about this, but here too the government is failing and keeping fines on the scale of penalties for those who have a ban on contact without a anklet. The Liberals also want the area of a restraining order to be extended and, in particularly serious cases, to be able to apply to a whole municipality or several municipalities – a so-called municipal restraining order or a reverse municipal arrest for the perpetrator. That question, Madam President, has been completely ignored by the government. You haven't even looked at it. We think that is a major flaw. We believe that electronic anklets should be able to be used in more cases than today. Fines shall be removed from the scale of penalties for any breach of the standard level. Punishment should also be possible in the event of a minor infringement. We also want a ban on contact to be adopted as a first-hand measure. On the last point, I welcome the fact that a majority in the Committee on Justice has supported our demands. Hopefully, when we make a decision this afternoon at 4 p.m., Parliament will send the demand to the government for it to return with a proposal.
i-LU4y2gCpeb23H2MJQRiDno	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights 25, electronic monitoring of the ban on contact. The debate is taking place on the basis of the government proposal with the same name. Men's violence against women is unacceptable. Not only does it cause great suffering but it can also lead to great anxiety and a life full of fear. A large majority of those who apply for a restraining order are women. This is something we cannot accept. We have a feminist government in Sweden. This means that equality is at the heart of the issue. People should have the same power to shape society and their own lives. Gender equality is a major solution to the challenges facing society. The Government has a strategy to increase gender equality. One of the objectives is to end men's violence against women. In the best of worlds, an equal one, we would not have this debate in this House today. Our goal should be that we should not need it in the future. In my assignment and also in my acquaintanceship, I have talked to women who have left a violent partner. It is sometimes young people and sometimes people who are in the middle of life, where children are also involved. The stories and feelings, however, are usually the same. It is often about an ex-boyfriend or ex-husband who persecutes and harasses, often this year after the relationship has ended. To do something as everyday as shopping or bus rides can be associated with strong fear or anxiety for these people. In situations such as these, a restraining order can contribute to greater security for the victim of persecution and harassment. A restraining order may be issued to a person who is at risk of committing a crime against, following or seriously harassing the person whom the prohibition is intended to protect. With today's legislation, it takes too long for a restraining order to be better controlled by electronic surveillance. The fact that electronic monitoring of restraining orders is not used to such an extent is also due to technical problems. However, performance has increased, and technological developments allow us to assume that it will only be better and better in the future. Therefore, the Government proposes that electronic monitoring should be speeded up. You put in the right action at the right time. It can save lives. An electronic contact ban can create an increased sense of security and also has a certain preventive effect. Electronic contact bans also have the beneficial effect of making it easier to ensure that a restraining order is followed. Madam President, I would like The government has three proposals in this area, and the committee is pleased to say that it is in favour of them. The proposals also allow for electronic monitoring to be used in the case of an extended restraining order if a previous restraining order has been infringed. It will be possible to use electronic surveillance in connection with a restraining order for up to one year instead of six months, as it is today. Non-compliance with a prohibition of contact with electronic surveillance is introduced as a specific criminal code. The scale of penalties will be jailed for no more than two years without the possibility of imposing fines. A stronger view of infringements can also lead to increased trust in the system of victims, plaintiffs and other actors. This, in turn, may lead to more frequent consideration of electronic monitoring than is currently the case. This also means that the police are given the opportunity to arrest a person who has violated an electronic restraining order. It has happened that there has been a deliberate violation of electronic contact bans to harass the victim. We are now putting an end to this by making it a consequence. The legislative amendments are proposed to enter into force on 1 July 2018. The changes I have described are being implemented in order to strengthen protection against harassment and persecution. This should be done through better monitoring of compliance with a restraining order and a stronger view of infringements in the event of a contact ban with electronic surveillance. This is an important initiative for victims. The government also invests in women's shelters. The fee paid by the sentenced person to the Victims Fund is increasing. We also want to set up an investigation into criminalisation when children are forced to witness violence in close relationships. Madam President, I would like In view of what I have said, I would like to endorse the committee's proposal in the report and reject all motions.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-389	Madam President, I would like Increased opportunities for electronic monitoring of contact bans are among many that the world's first feminist government has presented during its term of office to combat men's violence against women. Men's violence against women must be combated in many different ways. Of course, the most important thing is to work to ensure that it never happens. When it does happen, society must be there and provide protection and support to victims and prosecute those who have committed crime. Most of the time, a restraining order comes into play when it comes to men's violence against women. That is why this is an important issue for gender equality. That is why this proposal is important from a feminist point of view. We have seen how the sharpening that has been done in the past has not been effective. There have been only isolated cases of electronic monitoring of contact bans that have been decided, partly due to technical problems but probably also because the harassment and infringements that have been committed have not been taken seriously enough. By now ensuring that electronic monitoring can take place much earlier, before it has gone far too far, we are strengthening the protection of the victim and making it much more difficult to violate the ban on contact that has been issued. We are tightening the penalties for infringements and making it possible to have electronic surveillance at an earlier stage. I would like to support the proposal contained in the report of the Committee on Justice and I very much welcome the government's efforts to combat men's violence against women.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-394	Madam President, I would like Few things feel as keen as improving the protection of people who are repeatedly subjected to violence, threats and harassment. The fear and powerlessness felt by the victims of crime in such situations I think it is difficult to imagine if you yourself have not been in that situation. However, those who testify to it say that it is a terrible mental strain to feel exposed at all times, every minute of the day, and that it is extremely painful over time to be in this situation. Of course, the fact that these victims are to receive all the support that the rule of law can provide should be self-evident. In most cases, situations like these arise between people who have or have had a close relationship. When it comes to real violence, it is mainly men who practice it against women. It is still both a major social problem and a gender equality problem, which I have been into before. Last year, nearly 12 000 assault offences were reported in Sweden that were linked to violence in close relationships. Brå's security survey indicates that 40 percent of the women who report that they have suffered abuse claim that a loved one or a loved one has carried out the violence. In other words, there are strong reasons to review how protection against violence, threats and harassment can be improved, inter alia, by improving the possibilities for electronic monitoring in the event of a restraining order. Madam President, I would like Since the introduction of electronic monitoring in the event of a restraining order in 2011, what has been said has only been used on a few occasions. There are many reasons for this, but Mrs Brå has evaluated this and points out two problems in particular. Firstly, applications for a restraining order are sometimes wrongly designed to ensure that victims have not received the support they need from the authorities in order to formulate correct requests. Secondly, as we have mentioned in the past, the technology linked to electronic foot shackles has major shortcomings. Above all, there have been a lot of childhood diseases in the early years. It is therefore good that the government has now submitted a new proposal aimed at making it possible to decide on electronic monitoring in more situations than today. However, I would like to add, just as Roger Haddad mentioned, that this is also based on, among other things, an announcement from the Riksdag to the Government from 2015. Madam President, I would like We often talk about criminal policy being characterised by a clear victim perspective. It is therefore essential that the scale of penalties for infringements of a contact ban with electronic surveillance is now tightened to imprisonment for a maximum of two years. It clearly marks the seriousness of society's view of this type of crime. I believe that there are two obvious advantages to the new proposal. Firstly, it will hopefully contribute to a greater sense of security for victims. We know that one of the two overarching objectives of criminal policy is to increase people's security. Secondly, the control of a restraining order will be improved by electronic monitoring, as it will be possible to identify the location of a potential perpetrator much earlier. However, as the committee announces to the government, it is not reasonable for a vulnerable person to have to wait for a restraining order to be breached before using electronic surveillance. I therefore think it is good that the committee should improve the government proposal by saying that electronic monitoring can be introduced as a first-hand measure. I believe that this is an important step forward, and this is fully in line with the fact that criminal policy should be characterised by a clear victim perspective. That should be a matter of course for all parties in this House.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-401	Madam President, I would like Now we are going to debate the Environment and Agriculture Committee's report 15, Waste and Circulars. It deals with 90 exercise requests from general exercise hours last autumn. It is about the circular economy, which has become increasingly high on the political agenda. I believe that questions about materials – new materials that are lighter or in other ways have properties that have bearing on sustainability and that are made from renewable raw materials but also recycled materials and new ways to recycle – will be major issues in the future. These are issues on which this government has taken several initiatives and invested research money, and these are issues that are very topical in the EU at the moment. The government has also appointed a delegation for the circular economy that has just begun its work. Recently, the recycling industries released a report counting on the economic losses of non-recovery or inefficient material use in steel, aluminium and plastics. According to that report, 42 billion are lost every year due to the very inefficient use of materials. The waste of resources and broken cycles is essentially an environmental issue, but the report also shows that it is a question of economy. It would be economically rational to invest in more efficient material streams. The industry works with this, but it also needs policies in the form of research funding for both basic and applied research. There is a need for economic instruments and regulations that steer towards circularity. As has been said, work is under way in the EU on these issues, and it is very important that this work also produces results. This is something that this government is closely following and working for. One example is plastic with which we have major problems. Much plastic is not recycled and instead ends up in our waters and creates problems for the aquatic environment and for aquatic animals. The government has set up an investigation into plastic with an unusually broad mission. Unfortunately, it should not be finished until later this autumn, but I look forward to it coming. The study recently submitted an interim report on biodegradable plastics. The question alone is probably so complicated, not least from a consumer point of view. What exactly is plastic? Should recyclable or degradable plastics be prioritised? And is there even biodegradable plastic? In order to get working plastic streams, some kind of plastic standards must be developed, and dangerous substances must be removed. Otherwise, we will not achieve effective recycling in this area. It is therefore a good thing that the EU has focused particularly on this in a plastic strategy and that the government has initiated this broad investigation. There is much to do, and we have to address the issue also from a producer's perspective and not just with a focus on what we consume and such things as plastic carrier bags, which is enough but not enough to get to the problems. Sometimes these are small things that cause problems for companies that recycle and develop new products, such as the rules for when something turns from being waste to becoming a commodity. There are various authorities that have supervision but do not always have a common view on the matter. This must work better, and perhaps we also need to review the regulations and change them. Madam President, I would like The last time we stood in this House and debated waste and recycling – last spring – much of the discussion was about the collection responsibility for, in particular, packaging waste from households. It is perhaps not surprising, because it is an issue in which we have not agreed across party boundaries. Nevertheless, it is a pity that the discussion about a transition to a circular economy should get stuck there. Since last spring, the Environment Minister's round table has been closed. The talks have continued, but they may not have reached where we would have wished. There is now a proposal for a referral that is about strengthening and developing producer responsibility while more stringent requirements are placed on producers' collection. At the end of the consultation period later in the spring, the idea is that the government should proceed with the proposals, which are changes to regulations that will not be dealt with in this House. These are good and balanced proposals that would raise the level of service and make it easier for the individual to do the right thing. In many places, the issue has been resolved by close to property collection, but at double cost to the consumer, who pays both for the packaging and for the collection. The Government's proposal makes it clear that it is the producers who have financial responsibility and that the municipalities must not collect waste with less than an agreement. Better conditions for the individual to do the right thing also strengthen the conditions for increasing recycling. At the same time, it is a solution which, as the opposition has been concerned about, is not in danger of creating problems in the chain of producer responsibility. Producers own and dispose of the material. Madam President, I would like Of course, this does not solve all the issues. After all, collection is just part of a whole chain and a whole system that will work and that must be reformed in order for us to move towards a circular economy. I initially tried to describe this a little horizontally. Madam President, I would like The report announces an investigation into increased producer responsibility for furniture and construction and demolition waste. Producer responsibility is one way of getting functioning systems and flows. It has contributed to increased recycling in those areas, although there are also shortcomings. We are no stranger to expanding and developing producer responsibility where it can be assumed that it would contribute to effective recycling and promote better waste prevention design. The last time this investigation was carried out, it was found that there are difficulties linked to the lifetime of the products covered by the notice. However, as the report points out, it has been a long time since it was investigated, and things have developed a lot since then. Nevertheless, we feel it is unnecessary to make an announcement with such a clear order for a solution for a limited number of product groups. There is often talk of producer responsibility also for textiles. This too should be looked at in such a context. However, there are currently no operational material streams, and producer responsibility would be difficult in that situation. Madam President, I would like There may be more products for which producer responsibility would be a good solution, but producer responsibility is probably not always the solution. We believe that the entrance must be wider than that and that the work on increased recycling must look at all the instruments available to use. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say something about an issue which may not be so large but which is an irritation, namely the littering of buttocks, snuff and tobacco products. One might think it self-evident that adults should not litter in that way, and I understand that there is an irritation and a will to do something about the problem. But the question is whether to really use criminal law in this way and whether it is really proportionate to do so. I do not think that this should be excluded, but it is a question that we should ask ourselves, which I believe has happened on the bourgeois edge. There is an evaluation of the whole system of fines for littering, and this means that perhaps no new initiatives should be taken at the moment. I also think that, given the current situation in the police and other law enforcement agencies, consideration should be given to whether this is another task that should be added to an already strained situation. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, I would like to say that the government has an ambitious environmental policy. The environmental budget has been substantially increased and a number of measures have been taken in a wide range of areas, including this. But much more needs to be done-- I'm the first to admit. And I believe that if the climate policy framework was the major issue of this parliamentary term to land across block borders, recycling and the circular economy will be one such issue in the next. There, various packages of regulatory changes and economic instruments are needed that also focus on production, which requires more focus. This work will also be driven by scarcity of resources and, to some extent, geopolitics. Just look at the EU's list of critical raw materials! There will be a need for continued extraction of these metals and minerals if we are seriously to make a transformation that involves, for example, electrifying traffic. But we must also ensure that we take care of the resources that we have already dug up, and this is very clear in the mission that the Ministry of Industry has given to the SGU on this issue. As I said, this discussion will continue, because this development will continue. And politics has an important role to play in affirming and removing obstacles to this transition. With this, Madam President, I call for approval of the parts of the committee's proposals which the Social Democrats support.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-422	Madam President, I would like As Mrs Sara said, today we have to deal with a motion report from the general period of exercise, which deals with waste, circulation and the circular economy. There are about 90 exercises that mainly concern resource efficiency, sustainable production, recycling, plastics and more. Most of the motions are rejected, with a few exceptions, which means that the report contains an announcement. I'll get back to that. Rejections are proposed on other motions, in many cases on the grounds that work is ongoing on the issues. The allowances concern several important areas that are rightly high on the global agenda, as Mrs Sara pointed out. An increasing population will mean increased consumption, putting even more pressure on our natural resources. These are not endless, so there is still a lot of environmental work to be done. Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation No 1 and of reservation No 3. Reservation No 1 concerns the fact that we believe that resource efficiency and energy efficiency should be at the centre of the transition to a circular economy. Sweden should work to ensure that continued work on the European Commission's package of measures contributes to reducing the quantities and landfills throughout Europe. This is because it is very different in the different EU countries. Sweden is at the forefront, which is great, but it is important that the guidelines are adapted to the different countries' conditions. Sweden is in many ways an example for the rest of Europe, where the waste hierarchy is often overlooked and a large proportion of waste is placed in landfills or remains on landfill sites, with leakage as a result. It is very different in the EU countries in how far they have progressed, and we have pointed out that it is important that Sweden and the government push for the European Commission's proposal for a circular economy to be designed in such a way that it becomes a strong tool in reducing waste. Now the European Parliament has recently voted in favour of a new waste legislation and thus a shift in policy towards a circular economy within the EU. The goal now is to increase the proportion of municipal waste to be recycled to 55% in 2025 and finally to 65% in 2035. For packaging materials, targets are raised to 65 per cent and 70 per cent respectively. Landfill should be reduced to a maximum of 10 percent by 2035. Some countries will be deferred until 2040. In Sweden, the figure is between 1 and 2 per cent, so we are not affected by this decision. However, this shows how different things are in the rest of Europe, and that is why we have to defer. Madam President, I would like Reservation No 3 concerns the moderate exercise that we want the possibility of changing the requirements of wastewater treatment plants to be investigated in order to allow for increased recycling of nutrients in sewage sludge. Investment in new technologies and further research in this area are needed, such as how to restore phosphorus from sewage sludge. Drug residues are also harmful and it is extremely important that we can remove these residues during purification so that drug residues do not enter our watercourses. This requires considerable investment and therefore the Moderates propose to invest 500 million in five years to cover some of these investment costs. One thing that really contributes to a circular economy is biogas. The recently adopted food strategy states that it is important that we make greater use of residues from the food industry. Increased use of biogas production gives double environmental benefits as it both reduces waste and replaces fossil fuels. In addition, the sewage sludge can be used as manure and thus reduces the use of other fertilisers. But Swedish biogas production is in an acute crisis. Installations are closed down, grounded or sold abroad. The reason is that aid for production is different in different countries. In Denmark, for example, the subsidy takes place at the level of production, while in Sweden the subsidy takes place at the level of the consumer. However, the EU rules are such that an imported product should have the same rules as in Sweden, i.e. Denmark receives double subsidies because you get the same subsidy at the consumer level as in Sweden. This is serious, and I know the government is aware of it. Among other things, I have had a debate with the Minister for Energy on this. We are in complete agreement, but it is now becoming very urgent to resolve the issue. Today, plants are being shut down. So we need to reform our system to bring it into line with the other countries of the European Union. Uniform rules and, above all, long-term rules are important. The availability of own biogas production is also important from the point of view of preparedness – not to forget. Madam President, I would like I am pleased that a majority in the committee is in favour of an increase in producer responsibility for more products being investigated. Producer responsibility means that the producer is responsible for collecting and caring for end-of-life products throughout the product's life cycle. Producer responsibility also aims to motivate producers to develop more resource-efficient products that are more easy to recycle and do not contain toxic substances. It is very possible that there will be more products where it will apply to producer responsibility, which Sara was into. Textiles are an example, but there are problems with the material streams. Today, producer responsibility applies to eight products: cars, tyres, batteries, electrical equipment, packaging and recycled paper, etc. The last time producer responsibility was investigated was in 2001 and since then there has been a major development of knowledge. We – that is, a majority in the committee – now want more products to be included and we want to start by investigating the creation of producer responsibility also for furniture and building materials. Textiles are also important to be able to recycle, and it is good to invest in sustainable textiles. But since very large production takes place far from us, international cooperation is important. But it is good if we can increase the recycling of textiles and there needs to be an improvement in the collection of textiles. The production of new textiles should be sustainable and without toxic substances. There is rapid product development, which is gratifying. For example, new vacuum cleaners made entirely of recycled plastic can now be purchased. Plastic is another big problem, not least when plastics break down very slowly and we have problems with plastics in the oceans and with microplastics. Yesterday you could hear about artificial turf plans that are soon to be found in every municipality – they're a huge problem. There have been many calls about the collection of packaging and recycled paper, which Sara was working on. The discussion has touched on who should be responsible for the collection. So far, we do not agree on this issue. I suppose it might come up in Parliament one day, because if responsibility is to be transferred, the decision should be made in this House and not through a regulation. Now it is a regulation that tightens the requirements for referrals. There is a political consensus that it should be easy to do the right thing. It should be easy for citizens to sort and increase the amount of waste that can be recycled. The referral intends to increase the close-to-real estate collection. The goal is to have close-to-real estate collection from 60 per cent of all residential properties. It is a tough goal and there will be a need for exceptions where it cannot be considered reasonable given the design of the property. However, many municipalities are well on their way and today have eight fractions for household sorting and collection. Madam President, I would like The policy's task is to create good conditions for actors to take responsibility and to safeguard the polluter pays principle. The generational goal describes that we will hand over to the next generation a society in which many of the environmental problems will be solved. Hard environmental work will be required in many countries and for many years to come. The environment is the most global. We share a globe, we share the same air and we share the same water that circulates around our earth. Environmental work must take into account where the impact of various measures is greatest, i.e. where the environmental benefits are greatest for the global economy.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-454	Madam President, I would like Gunilla Nordgren talked in her speech about the very strained situation of biogas, and that is a commitment that I, my party and the government share. For example, we have introduced a methane gas reduction aid to improve the conditions for biogas production. The situation described by Gunilla Nordgren needs to be resolved in both the short and the longer term. In the short term, we have allocated 270 million in our amending budget to increase support for biogas and to broaden it to include more substrates. In the longer term, it needs to be investigated how to tackle the problems that pressure Swedish biogas without conflicting with the Commission on state aid rules, which is a recurring theme in these discussions. However, I would like to ask Gunilla Nordgren how the Moderates view this short-term solution. I may have missed it, but I have not yet noted the moderate attitude towards the short-term increase in support and its widening. On the issue of fundraising, Gunilla Nordgren says that we do not agree. This has been the case, but the proposal that is now being referred is about defending, strengthening and developing producer responsibility. It seemed that Gunilla Nordgren did not really have any idea of the proposals that are being referred. I wonder if Gunilla Nordgren would like to develop her view on the proposals made by the government.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-458	Madam President, I would like I do not think there is a major problem with the regulations. The information is clarified, and these changes were in part up to August 2014 but have still not been introduced. I guess there's no big problem with that. As far as aid is concerned, the most important thing is that we have the same rules as the rest of the European Union. In my part of the country, Denmark is very close. I understand from the Minister for Energy that we need to adapt. Denmark and the rest of the EU will not change their rules to the same rules as in Sweden. Little Sweden will then have to change its rules to the rules that apply in the rest of the EU. If Denmark passes the state aid rules, Sweden should be able to do so. What I am concerned about – and I know that we are not very inconsistency on this issue – is the closure of installations. They're put in a moth bag. I know a number of facilities only in Skåne that are not now sold abroad. One of them has been sold to Finland. Then we stand there. That is why I think it is urgent. Investors are just waiting or selling abroad. If we are in a situation where we are in a situation where we are in a situation where we may be under an embargo, so that we cannot import gas. Then we have no fuel for agricultural machinery, for example. They have a hard time walking on electricity, if you say so. It's heavy machinery. If Denmark passes the state aid rules, I find no reason why Sweden would not do so. We must, of course, be treated equally in the European Union.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-463	Madam President, I would like As far as the proposed changes to the regulation are concerned, that is indeed what Gunilla Nordgren says. The Regulation was also amended in 2014. Rather, they were about recycling targets. This is about raising the level of service in order to make it easier for citizens or consumers to do the right thing and thus create better conditions for recycling. I welcome the fact that the Moderates seem to have no objection to these proposals. One really needs to find a solution with regard to biogas, which means that we have the same kind of rules, so that we do not have distortive effects. However, this is something that needs to be investigated and cannot be done overnight. Although Denmark is able to meet the state aid rules, we need to make our own assessment of this and adapt to our regulations. That is the case with each individual question. It is also about how to do things in relation to the Energy Taxation Directive and the like. As I said, this is not something that is done overnight. I also think that Gunilla Nordgren rather well describes the acute situation in which biogas producers find themselves. That also applies in her part of the country. They need to know here and now about better conditions. I hope that the Moderates' message to them is that they want to do things here and now and that the message is not that they want to say no to the government's short-term support. The producers really need this.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-467	Madam President, I would like Let me start with the regulations. After all, we want to change the objectives of the regulations and want improved information to go out to households. These proposals were made, but the new government never introduced them, so no changes were made. Collection responsibility is a matter for the Riksdag. Karolina Skog has said this in the speaker's chair during a debate. There's no problem there. And I think that we very often agree across party boundaries that we need to increase this. But we also see the difficulties. As far as biogas is concerned, the issue is urgent. I have no problem with short-term support, but we in the Moderates want long-term rules that are competitively neutral. We often talk about a level playing field, and this applies to a large extent here. It could be seen as a matter of emergency preparedness, but it does not belong in this committee. I, who deal with other issues, may feel that it would at least be good if we had highlighted biogas. The day we have power outages and other things, the electric cars don't work. Then we need the vehicle gas. If we can also produce it ourselves and get a clean sewage sludge in the fields, it will be a win-win-win situation. Biogas is a good thing. It would have been very good if we had been able to get along. I said it's urgent. I assumed then that I have read that an investigation should be set up. Get it moving fast because this is a hurry! However, I agree that this must be investigated. But when you are told that an investigation is to be set up, you never know what that can mean. My advice, therefore, is to launch it very quickly.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-472	Madam President, I would like We are debating waste and cycles today. Globally, this is a huge problem. We do not need to go very far down Europe to get to countries where waste problems are solved almost fully by depositing most of the waste. You just dig down the trash to get rid of the problem. Worldwide, we can see how landfills grow and cause sanitary problems. Waste is landfilled or burned without any real consideration of resource efficiency. the waste is neither recycled nor energy recovered; You just want to get rid of the trash. This means under-utilisation of resources and other major environmental problems. Here in Sweden, the situation is quite different. Deposition is very rare. About 99% are used for other purposes. We have had a situation where entrepreneurs and municipalities sometimes even argue about who is entitled to waste. I can mention, for example, that it has been unclear for a long time how to look at ownership of waste fat in the restaurant sector. Finally, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency put its foot down and clarified that this should be seen as operational waste. It is a good and reasonable assessment that contributes to long-term and market clarity. Still, it is gratifying to argue about who is going to take care of the waste. Madam President, I would like One of the few political issues with regard to waste policy is the question of who should be responsible for collecting waste. It's a little symptomatic that the conflict line is here. This should perhaps be seen against the background of good development and the achievement of the objectives. What is the significance of who is responsible for collecting the newspaper and glass bottles? We in the Swedish Democrats think it is fundamentally uninteresting. There cannot be an ideological entrance here; people should be given good service when it comes to recycling. Waste should be collected in the most pragmatic way. It's supposed to work. Is it the easiest that it is on the municipalities? Maybe it is, or it isn't. It's hard to answer that. We have had producer responsibility for the collection for a long time, and it works. To break this up, it must be clear that we can improve something. We think it is relevant to look at the evaluations that are being carried out. You can visit the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's website and read the following: The recycling targets are now being achieved to a large extent. ..................................................... This does not indicate a serious situation. This does not indicate that the current system is not working well. Nor does it indicate that we have a situation in the area of waste that is close to the situation we have in health care, migration policy or the police. Madam President, I would like We should not break a functioning system, introduce municipal monopolies and knock out a lot of small businessmen on the basis of loose hopes. We will build on the current system, more responsibility should be placed on producers and more areas should be covered by producer responsibility. What causes problems, however, is that the government, despite a clear will from the Riksdag, chooses to take the matter in the long term. Apparently, it's based on prestige. For some reason, just a municipal monopoly on the collection was one of the promises that Stefan Löfven spoke of in this House when he read out his first declaration of government after the 2014 elections. However, there are now encouraging signals that the government is beginning to focus on improving the current system. It is to be hoped that the work will continue. Madam President, I would like At the same time, it is important that policies in this area too are characterised by cost-benefit analysis and the pursuit of socio-economic efficiency. Energy recovery is basically a good thing. Recycling is often much better, but as is the case with many plastics today, recycling is not yet socially effective. Coming up to 100% for all product groups should also not be an end in itself. Of course, you should invest in research and product development, but in the near future you have to be clear that the majority of packaging of a lot of plastics will not be able to be recycled. It's still not a disaster. After all, we have managed to achieve the recycling target for plastics as well. Madam President, I would like However, there is potential for improvement. Coordination between municipalities and producers can be improved, and the level of close-to-real estate collection should increase even more rapidly. We also need more areas of producer responsibility. Strong producer responsibility provides incentives for companies to review their entire production and waste chain. Then waste can at best be seen as a resource, which further helps to increase recycling. The fact that companies take responsibility for waste stimulates the adaptation of product design and materials so that the recycling process can be as effective as possible. We therefore welcome the announcement made by the majority of the committee on this subject. This is fully in line with how we in the Swedish Democrats view recycling policy and how it can be further developed. Madam President, I would like Another area where you may not have come as far is textiles. Despite a great interest from the industry in collecting textiles, many companies today break the law when they collect used clothing themselves, as textiles are today to be considered as household waste to be burned along with other residual waste. It is strange that this issue has been drawn on a long bench for several years, while at the same time spending a lot of energy on plastic bags' littering problems, which are not even a littering problem if you ask the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency in Sweden. In the textile sector, we are convinced that producer responsibility is a good way forward. This will stimulate increased recycling, new secondary markets and improved opportunities for private individuals to recycle. Having said that, I would like to conclude by calling for reservations 13 and 9.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-491	Madam President, I would like We are here today to debate the report by the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment, Waste and Recycling. I am, of course, in favour of our reservation, but for the sake of time, I am abstaining today from calling for approval. Madam President, I would like At home for me is Backa outside Lysekil. It's best known for its rock carvings. In the summer, tourists come and watch the 3,000-year-old carvings made. But three four years ago something else happened that was also revolutionary and that I didn't think would happen. I got a real estate fundraiser. There were two large barrels with four compartments in each plus two smaller compartments. It allows me to sort ten factions at home. It's everything from paper and food waste to batteries and light bulbs. For me who lives in the country and had to take the car to the recycling station it was a revolution. No more rolling glass bottles in the car when you forget to drive past the recycling station on the way to the store. No more smelly cat food cans. No more doubts at the sink if you really managed to rinse out the last thing. Maybe it just happened to end up in the combustible bag anyway. It's so nice. I have also got a whole kitchen cabinet at my disposal where I previously had my recycling boxes. I was so happy when it happened that I wrote a Facebook post that it was the best thing that happened in Backa since the rock carvings. Maybe it was the top line. But everyday solutions are something that makes life so much easier. When you also know that you are doing something that is both climate smart and environmental law, it feels extra good. In my municipality of residence it was the waste company Rambo together with the municipality who themselves took the lead. It doesn't cost any extra to have the four-torch boxes. It costs the same as if you have two sorting vessels. Unfortunately, this is not the case in other municipalities. Therefore, the government has now sent out a memorandum for consultation with a number of proposals clarifying producer responsibility for packaging and recycled paper. The proposal means that collection at residential properties – what is called close-to-real estate collection – should be the rule. It is a long process behind this with round table discussions, and all stakeholders have been involved. The discussions have resulted in calls for clarification of producer responsibility with increased demands. That is what the Red Green Government is now delivering. As things stand today before the consultation round is completed, the government wants it to be easier for households to get rid of their packaging and their newspapers. This means that more waste will be reused and less waste will be incinerated. Producer responsibility will be developed. It will be clear that it is the producers – those who place packaging and newsprint on the market – who have the financial responsibility to collect this. The proposal itself makes it better service to the citizens, but it is clear that it is not something you do overnight. In order for operators to have time to adapt, we hope that it will be fully implemented by 2025. One milestone is that 60 per cent of all properties will have it by 2021. There are also places where you can't have this. These are, for example, old areas with narrow streets or densely populated areas where you simply do not come up with the cars needed to collect it or if you live on an island. The waste must then be collected as close as possible to the dwelling. There will also be producer responsibility for things that happen out there, i.e. outdoor collection. Very much of the waste we see today, especially around the cities, is, for example, take away boxes. On the west coast where I live, we see that beach litter is mainly plastic packaging and such things from the rest of Europe. If you look in the Baltic Sea it is very much from the modern lifestyle. It's take away boxes, flattened forks, coffee mugs and so on. That is why there will be proper producer responsibility. There should also be outdoor packaging collection where many move, for example at bathing areas and parks. There will also be requirements for packaging design. When producer responsibility was introduced in 1994, the idea was not to release unnecessary packaging and to make smarter packaging that would be easier to collect. Now this will be tightened up. There will be clear demands that unnecessary packaging is not required. It is the producers who are responsible for the packaging and newsprint that will pay for the collection, not municipalities and housing associations. That is the very essence of the whole proposal. Many people have been up here in the debate talking about the circular economy. I believe, like Sara Karlsson, that it will become increasingly important. Perhaps the big question of the next parliamentary term will be how to get it right. What we must strive for is to close crop circles and ensure that there is no leaking sieve anywhere. We need to fully implement the waste hierarchy. We shall minimise waste by means of preventive measures, and if there is no recycling, and if there is no recycling and if there is no other way of recycling, for example with energy recovery. We can see that after four years the Red Green Government has taken this very seriously. It has come up with many strategies and many suggestions. It is trying to turn society into this. We have already talked about the strategy for sustainable consumption, the new industrialisation strategy and the strategy for smart industry, sustainable entrepreneurship policy and the food strategy. Much is happening in homes, but much is also happening with what is being placed on the market. We have heard that we in Sweden are good at recycling, but in other countries it is not the same. That is why we must be active in the European policy being pursued and in the ongoing negotiations on the waste package. This applies, for example, to the circular economy and also to the plastic strategy that is being developed. We have added money to the 2018 budget for more beach cleaning to pick up garbage on Sweden's west coast, in particular. 80% of the packaging washed up has a different country of origin from Sweden. It is not sustainable that things are still being put on landfill. We have also set aside more money to develop materials other than plastic and also make plastic 2.0. Only because something is made of a renewable raw material can it sometimes be produced as an environmentally friendly plastic bag. But it has the same properties as a fossil plastic bag. We need to have a common standard that allows us to have biodegradable plastic bags, compostable plastic bags or any other option that works but goes into the circular economy. We have to work hard to move away from buying-and-slipping. I think the Red-Green Government has done that. Our focus must go from buying-and-slip to recycling, recycling and a circular system. It is everyone's responsibility to sort out milk packages and cans at home. But then it must be easy to do the right thing. It must be a packaging that can be recycled. It must be an easy choice when standing at the sink and wondering if it is worth rinsing it out to actually do it.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-515	Madam President, I would like Emma Nohrén spoke about the regulation on near-real estate collection and how it looks in the country where Emma lives. I also live in the country and also have eight or ten compartments. It is often in the country that it is possible to do so. The big problems are nearby. We can take Old Town. It's old properties and narrow streets. Derogations will be needed. Is there any kind of punishment for property owners who cannot? It may be that spaces on the ground floor where the stuff should be are such that they simply do not fit. Then you're supposed to be as close as possible to the park? What's it gonna look like in the city? It is often in the big cities that there are problems, because there are many people living there and so there is a lot of waste there. My question is really whether one has thought of some kind of punishment for property owners where it is not possible. Property collection is good, and you can also do what you do at home, i.e. put in the offer that the garbage cars should run on biogas. Then you have combined pleasure with pleasure. But now the problem is that you have too few plants where you can make biogas from all the food that is collected. I'll come back to the biogas later.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-518	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Gunilla Nordgren! It gives me the opportunity to clarify some things. No, there will be no penalty as long as you have done what is possible. There are sometimes physical obstacles to getting out in practice, and this applies as close as possible. This is also a little later on. Of course, you should start where it's simple, but the milestone is that 60 per cent of the properties will have this by 2021, and then it will be fully implemented by 2025. In some places you may even have to rebuild, but then there is a reason for that. It's not exactly possible to rebuild the Old Town for a garbage truck to arrive. I don't think anyone would think that. There are certainly other solutions there. It's supposed to be simple and good, not that things should be complicated. Since Gunilla Nordgren came back to biogas, I would like to say that the red-green government has seen the problems with this, and that is also why we are giving SEK 270 million to those who produce biogas. We have also made sure that there may be more substrates – such as manure, which Gunilla Nordgren himself talked about – as well as food waste and things that have been difficult to move forward with due to state aid and EU rules. Now, however, we believe that we have a solution to it, but in order to get a long-term solution and a strategy in place that actually works and makes these companies dare to invest, we need to have an investigation that can pinpoint just that this is the problem, and here we can solve it. But this is the solution we have now.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-523	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer that there should be no punishment! But as Emma Nohrén was in, there is no way to rebuild in Old Town. The problem is that it is often inside large cities that it is difficult to rebuild, and that is where people live, if we are talking about the amount of waste. But it was a good answer that you should not punish property owners. Then we are there again: one should try to stimulate. The 270 million won't last very long. There is nothing wrong with the initiative as such, but, as we discussed in the previous debate, it is not enough in the long term. The problem is that since there are now eight factions in many municipalities in my vicinity and also others, the food collection is increasing so greatly that Sysav, the garbage company, has difficulty making biogas out of it. The plant is not enough, and the other plant with an investment of billions is in a moth bag. So we have a difficult situation here, both in the short and long term. It is a good thing about the 270 million, but as we said in the second debate, that investigation must get started. You can't just say you're going to set up an investigation, but now you have to set up that investigation so that we can move forward as soon as possible. This is not an easy matter; it is a matter of European rules and so on. Once again, if Denmark passes the state aid rules, why shouldn't Sweden?
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-526	Madam President, I would like The problem of biogas is not a new phenomenon, it is something we have ticked past and tried to find solutions to. But the 270 million we put in this spring budget, along with the investment that has been made in biogas and methane gas in investment aid, at least provides 300 million more than I know the Alliance has invested in its budget and what you did during your time in power. As far as I know, there was no biogas strategy then either. Let us now hope that this money can ensure that we keep biogas production up in Sweden and that we get an investigation that can show how to get long-term rules of play so that we can save the Swedish biogas.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-528	Madam President, I would like When I was given responsibility for waste issues at the beginning of this parliamentary term, I will honestly say that I was not super-enthusiastic. But after working on this so-called "shit issue" for a couple of years, I have to say that it is both a very exciting and above all a very important subject. If Sweden and the world are to cope with the climate and environmental challenges that we have ahead of us, we need green growth – a green growth where we create the conditions for companies to be able to create new sustainable business ideas, not least by stopping seeing waste as shit and instead seeing it as the resource it really is. Continued promotion of innovative businesses and sustainable trends not only bring environmental benefits. There is also great potential for creating more sustainable, green jobs. However, this requires political decisions and long-term regulatory frameworks that promote a circular economy. Madam President, I would like One area where there is an incredible potential to develop a more circular system is our clothes and textiles. Every year we buy over 12 kilos of textiles per person. We throw about 8 kilos each in the trash, while 2.4 kilos are somehow reused. Of what is collected, about 0.9 kilos are sold via second hand, online shopping or charity. Globally, less than 1 percent of the material is recycled into new clothing. By using the textiles that are thrown into the garbage, we could donate more to charity, reuse in other ways or use the fibers in the clothes to create new garments. Already there are a number of exciting companies that produce clothing from recycled materials or make clothing from materials that affect the environment less than cotton and polyester. One example is Swedish Stocking, which creates new pantyhose from broken and wear pantyhose. Since nylon is an oil-based product from a very carbon intensive production process, they save both greenhouse gas emissions and energy. Another exciting initiative is Swedish Renewcell, which recycles cellulose-based textile fibres, which reduces textile waste and at the same time ensures that the production of sustainable textiles increases. But for us to be able to get a working cycle of textile raw materials and a more sustainable fashion, work is needed for a non-toxic everyday life. For both consumers and waste managers, there is currently no information on which chemicals are present in different products. The Center Party therefore wants to introduce a textile content list to create transparency, strengthen consumer protection and create awareness about the content of a garment. We also want to continue to develop the EU's chemicals policy so that dangerous chemicals are phased out. At the same time, we know that, despite the laws and regulations that exist in the EU, dangerous substances are banned or too high levels of substances that are limited. This is particularly the case via e-commerce, which is growing rapidly and where consumers are subject to a different regulatory framework if they import directly from outside the EU. We therefore want to increase the control of goods in order to ensure that the products you get really comply with the EU's requirements. The cycle work is also about facilitating reuse and more sustainable products. Sustainable design requires that you think about it at the design stage. We need to use materials and processes that are better for the environment, we need to ensure that clothing does not contain or emit dangerous substances and we need to ensure that clothes are designed so that materials can be easily recycled, by developing regulations at European level. By strengthening consumer protection, we can also create incentives for companies to produce products that last longer and that consumers can use longer. The longer a product lasts, the better it is for the environment. We therefore want to extend consumer law for products so that companies will prove original errors for up to one year instead of today's six months. In order to support the re-use and resale of products which the individual no longer needs, we also want the right of complaint to comply with the goods instead of staying with the original buyer. Finally, sustainable fashion requires that we ensure raw materials for the clothes and textiles of the future. It is about good and long-term rules for the forest industry so that tencel and other materials can continue to take place in the clothing stores. But above all, it is a question of efficient collection and recycling. Last weekend Swedish Radio noticed that more and more retail chains are collecting textiles in stores. However, the regulatory framework is still very unclear. If a store collects clothes that are whole and can be reused, that's no problem. But if the store collects clothes that are dirty or broken and can only be recycled, they are counted as garbage, and then it is the municipality's responsibility even if the store chain has its own channels for recycling. We in the Center Party believe that producer responsibility for clothing, where anyone who puts something on the market should also be responsible for collecting it, is the long-term best solution for stimulating innovation and entrepreneurship. Like the committee, we would like to see producer responsibility investigated in more product groups. At the same time, we think it is important to have opportunities for second-hand operations, and it is important to find a model for producer responsibility where these activities can also be accommodated. In order to increase the collection of textiles, harness resources and save energy, the Center Party also wants to see a national target for collecting and collecting textiles. Within 10 years, 50% of the collected textile products should be reused and 90% of the total amount collected should be reused or recycled when re-use is not possible. The aim is to increase the collection of textiles, streamline resource use and also create more jobs in Sweden through textile recycling, textile recycling and innovation. Sweden has been a large textile nation before. By supporting and creating long-term rules of play for the Swedish sustainable textile industry, let us ensure that this happens again. Madam President, I would like When we stood in the Chamber last year and debated the subject, any cross-block talks on waste policy were a question mark in the debate. Since then, talks have started and ended, but unfortunately we have not managed to get to grips with the issues. We in the Center Party see great value in a long-term consensus on the issues. This will create the conditions for investment, new technology and better service. It is with that objective that we have participated in talks with the government. There is a great demand from both companies and municipalities for clear and long-term rules. We think it is important to build on what works with coherent producer responsibility. Although Sweden is at the top in terms of recycling, there is much that needs to be improved. These are more stringent environmental requirements for collection and recycling, which we have talked about in the past. It is about increasing innovation in the recycling sector by opening up to more actors to participate. A great responsibility rests on individuals, producers, municipalities and authorities. Policy must clarify long-term objectives and responsibilities. On this basis, however, it is important that stakeholders gather and agree on details, procedures and forms of cooperation. In this way an efficient system can be built. Both waste collection and recycling needs to be developed for better service and environmental benefit. It's good for the environment, households and businesses. Madam President, I would like I'm behind all the Center Party reservations, but for time-winning, I'm only calling for reservation 10.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-548	Madam President, I would like Each of us produces half a tonne of household waste per year, that is, 500 kg per Swedish and year. That's 50% more than just 20 years ago. The huge production of waste is, of course, a huge waste of resources when a large part of the waste is not recycled or recycled. It also leads to totally unnecessary greenhouse gas emissions. As Sara Karlsson from the Social Democrats said earlier, it is a question of lost business opportunities for multi-billion-dollar progressive companies, which could have benefited from the waste that is now being wasted. We must take a holistic approach to waste policy, and there is much to do. One problem that we see in this debate, and in many other waste debates, is that we are starting from some kind of status quo, that is, there is this much waste we are going to produce in the future. But, of course, we should start from the waste hierarchy and the idea that we should prevent the amount of waste. We will minimise as far as possible the use of paper, of packaging, of bags and other things. There's a lot to do there. An important part of this is that we need clearer standardisation of packaging and materials overall. Common standards will also make it easier to reuse and recycle packaging. It is obviously difficult to recycle bottles if there are 100 different bottle varieties on the market. That's why in the old system in Sweden all dyke bottles, beer and soft drinks were included in a return system. We need to think alike today. That is the modern way of thinking. We also need to make higher demands on producers of various kinds of gadgets. I am thinking not least of technical things in the market. Let's look at a modern cell phone. It is not designed to be able to pick out some that may have broken and replace it with another. The most common problem with a so-called smart phone is that the battery becomes bad after about a year and a half. If I personally unscrew the phone, unscrew the battery and insert a new battery, then I have made an external damage to the phone, claims the manufacturer. Then there's no guarantee on the phone anymore. They are designed to replace them after about a year and a half, even though the rest of the functions on the phone would continue to work for many more years. Here politics needs to take on a much greater responsibility. We need to be much tougher on the industry and make demands on interchangeable parts and to be able to repair and recondition everything that is on the market. Let me say something about the previous speech by the Center Party on thoughts about extended warranty periods and, overall, stronger consumer rights. That's absolutely right. It is also a way to pressure manufacturers to produce things that work and last, which do not break as soon as the warranty period has expired. Furthermore, with regard to the previous speech by the Center Party, I also think that there is a great point in doing something about the huge waste of clothing and textiles. More than eight kilos of textiles per person per year are thrown away in Sweden. We in the Left Party believe that one way to go would be to use the current EU legislation, the so-called Ecodesign Directive. It is currently used for technology and electricity products. We could use the Ecodesign Directive to also impose higher requirements on textile producers, so that we do not have to throw away anything just because a small part has broken. It is about, for example, imposing requirements for clothes to last longer. These are measures that need to be taken to simply put a small amount of junk on the market, but we will of course continue to produce waste in the future. We in the Left Party believe that today's deposit system has been an effective way to collect packaging and then reuse or recycle it. The rate of collection and recycling of cages and pet bottles is 80-85 per cent. That's good, but it could get better. Therefore, more packaging should be covered by the deposit system. We also believe that an increased pledge on certain packages would give back even more via the deposit system. We have looked with interest at the proposal that exists in the UK. It is just a concrete proposal of many proposals that are being discussed around the world. Today, in the UK, a fee is being prepared for disposable mugs used mainly in cafeterias and the like. If a fee, a deposit, of 25 pence is placed on the mug, which I think the proposal is in the UK, the customer can get back these 25 pence, i.e. about 3 kroner, when it returns the mug, and then the mugs are recycled in the system. Madam President, I would like I would also like to comment on what has been said here about the collection responsibility for household waste and for the packaging and newspapers that need to be collected from households. We heard earlier Sara Karlsson from the Social Democrats, Emma Nohrén from the Environmental Party and also Kristina Yngwe from the Center Party talk warmly about the changes to regulations now proposed by the government. It has been stated that the aim is to increase the household collection of newspapers, paper and packaging. We in the Left Party think it is a good basic ambition. But I am a little worried about whether this will really happen in practice. The fact that we are to collect where people live is by far the most rational and efficient; there is no question of that. But why do the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Center Party not want the municipalities to have full responsibility for the collection of packaging and newspapers? The municipalities collect the rest of the household waste. They're experts at collecting our waste. As Emma Nohrén mentioned earlier, we also see that when the municipality is given that responsibility, yes, it will be so much more effective. Now you are saying that with these reforms it can be just that way. But it is only in cases where the municipalities conclude agreements with the packaging industry. What happens when producers do not want to conclude such an agreement with the municipalities? We see that unfortunately there are quite a few unfortunate locks between municipalities and producer organisations around Sweden. You are moving forward with a change of regulation. One argument could be that you need to reach a broad agreement, but these issues have always been dealt with in regulations. The former bourgeois government also made a change of regulation. So the government owns this question. You could have re-communised responsibility for the collection of packaging and newspapers. I'm disappointed you haven't. Madam President, I would like Of course, I support all the reservations of the Left Party, but I would particularly like to endorse reservation 17. It is about the need for a Swedish plastic strategy with the ambition to reduce the use of plastics and in particular reduce the environmental and climate impact of plastics. One is easily appalled when one reads the EU plastic strategy, where one sees that plastic use in the world has more than twentyfold since 1960. More than twentyfold! There is an incredible amount of plastic used today, and very much of that plastic ends up in our seas or in nature or is dumped in developing countries. Here we in Sweden should have a much more proactive approach. We should be able to be much more effective in minimising the use of plastics and standardising, reuse and recycling what is on the market. That's why a Swedish plastic strategy is a good idea.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-568	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm! I was mentioned here, so I couldn't help but press the button. Jens Holm says it's a wrong decision to do this. But what we are doing is establishing that producers have producer responsibility, that they should bear the costs and that the collection should be close to property. How to then procure it, if it is with the municipality or other entrepreneurs, you will see. But it is still the producers who should bear the cost. That is the whole proposal – that it is stated. I don't quite understand what your objection is to that, Jens Holm.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-570	Madam President, I would like If Emma Nohrén had listened carefully, she would have heard that I asked what you should do when a municipality fails to conclude contracts with producer organisations. As you have put forward this proposal, it requires agreements with the packaging industry. That is a little the problem around the country today. Such agreements can already be concluded today. In your municipality, Emma Nohrén, they've obviously managed to do that. But who knows how long that agreement runs, what the terms are, and so on? That is why I would like to put the question back to Emma Nohrén. Now that the municipalities are responsible for all other household waste collection, why not let it be the way it was before and as I thought both the Social Democrats and the Green Party really think it should be – that the municipalities should have full responsibility for collecting newspapers and packaging as well? It has been proposed by, I believe, two state investigations that have looked closely at this issue. We fully agree that producers should have financial responsibility. But this can be done through, for example, a levy on producers, which has been calculated on those amounts. Why do you not want to give the municipalities, which are fundraising experts, full responsibility?
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-574	Madam President, I would like Yes, the municipalities are fundraising experts, and they are responsible today. But this proposal has not come out of the blue. It has come after long round tables and discussions with stakeholders on how to set this up in order to have an impact on such a proposal, which has also turned and turned the various arguments. We have seen that by clarifying producer responsibility and clearly showing that they have financial responsibility and the level of service to be expected as a resident, we have also provided the basis and conditions for concluding entrepreneurial agreements with municipalities, for example. Then you can also procure for others if you want, but I think it will be quite obvious that it is the municipalities you turn to. When we have a level of how it should be, that it should be real estate close to collection, then we also get a cost situation that works. It is this variant that can be seen that both the industry and the municipalities and the other actors involved think it works. Above all, this is what makes it easy and easy for citizens to do sorting.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-576	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, what the government is doing is a half-measures. I myself have been negotiating with the government's representatives on these issues. We have always argued that re-communisation, so that we know that it is the municipalities that have the right to collect newspapers and packaging, too, would have been preferable. It has been proposed by two government investigations, and that is what our municipal politicians want in SKL and other contexts. Now we have a very complicated system that requires the conclusion of agreements, achieving different levels of collection and so on. It can work well in some places; I think so. It will work worse in other places. Re-communisation would have been the only straight and absolutely most effective thing in this context.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-578	Madam President, I would like I support all the proposals in which the Liberals are present, but for the winning time I only ask for reservation No 18. Madam President, I would like Waste management is an important issue which also affects sustainable development. The amount of waste should be reduced in the long term. Sorting waste allows recycling of materials. Sorting waste also puts pressure on producers. Do we consumers want to drag unnecessary packaging home and then handle it at home? A well-functioning waste management also makes it possible to collect materials and chemicals that should be handled professionally. Waste management makes it possible to collect food waste, which can then become new energy. We can also see how the external environment is affected when the management is in some way flawed. It is important to reduce landfills and waste quantities in the long term, in Sweden but also throughout the EU. For this reason, Sweden should work to ensure that further work on the European Commission's package of measures helps to reduce the amount of waste and landfills. Producer responsibility is an issue that has been raised in the debate. The aim is for producers to have financial responsibility for their products throughout their life cycle. Producer responsibility means that producers are responsible for collecting and caring for end-of-life products. By placing responsibility on producers, incentives are created to think through the whole chain so that products are more resource-efficient and easier to recycle and do not contain environmentally hazardous substances. Increased producer responsibility can help reduce the use of hazardous chemicals by producers, as well as consumer exposure to such substances. Sweden has legislation on producer responsibility for eight product groups: batteries, cars, tyres, electrical equipment, packaging, recycled paper, pharmaceuticals and radioactive products. There are also voluntary commitments similar to producer responsibility. Is this enough? No. There is every reason to investigate how more products can be covered by a producer responsibility. The report contains, among other things, furniture and building materials. An extension of producer responsibility for additional product groups was investigated by 2001. It was then found that recycling and reduced use of chemicals in the construction and furniture sectors, among others, could be achieved through voluntary commitments and that the time was not yet ripe to establish the producer responsibility for these particular fractions. At the same time, the investigator highlighted many reasons for such introduction, including the large amount of materials and goods produced annually and the desire for better control of the chemicals that products may contain. Knowledge of how chemical substances in construction products, for example, can affect human health has increased since 2001. In other words, both the state of knowledge and the legal context are very different today from when the issue was examined last time. Therefore, statutory producer responsibility should be re-examined and there is therefore a notice. I note that the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party have reserved for this. It is also argued that there are other ways and means of coping with producer responsibility. I sometimes think of a completely different debate which shows that, although there are other legal bases, it is not quite straightforward. The very issue I am going to raise is not affected here, but I would like to remind you of the debate on the recycling and dismantling of wind turbines. There are also other options for taking action, but it has been very complicated. The possibility of investigating and reviewing producer responsibility is therefore very important. Madam President, I would like Littering is a major issue for many citizens. Those of us who have been active at local level can see that this is a very common issue, where the citizens have views. In Sweden, over 1 billion cigarettes are thrown into our streets and squares every year. In the municipality where we are now, where the Riksdag is located, there is a district that has 13 million butts annually. In my municipality it is about large quantities, and sanitation costs a total of approximately SEK 15 million per year. Junk measurements show that butts account for about 60 percent of all garbage in our outer environment. In addition to fulfilling our environment, butts also contain toxic substances such as nickel, cadmium and plastics, which cause them to decompose very slowly. That is why many countries have also taken steps to get to grips with this. Fimps stay in the environment for a long time unless someone picks them up, and that means large costs for municipalities. Many have their own experience of what this looks like. The legislation on littering should be tightened up to include tobacco products in the litter fines, but government parties feel that this is a small issue. We in the Liberals do not think so. Madam President, I would like The oceans are turning into huge dumps. Marine debris causes great damage to birds, fish, and mammals. Plastic is broken down into microplastics that enter the food chain, which is harmful to humans, animals and nature. Microplastics pose far-reaching environmental threats. The plastic lying on the beaches falls apart and becomes secondary microplastic. Even artificial turf plans are today an essential source of microplastics – one of the largest given that car tires are a major issue in this context. The Liberals have pointed out in their reservation No 18 how important it is to take measures and preventive measures to limit the spread of plastics from, among other things, artificial turf plans. Microplastic enters our ecosystems with health effects on both humans and animals. Furthermore, we in the Liberals believe that the Swedish sea coast should be regularly cleaned from litter like plastic, so that our beaches become cleaner. Madam President, I would like Littering costs, both in the form of a boring outdoor environment and because it takes a lot of tax money to clean up all the garbage. Everyone should think about what it costs to clean up and what it costs to throw garbage and butts in our outdoor environment. Cleaning the streets and squares of municipalities costs considerable amounts each year – money that could be used for something else and much better. Madam President, I would like Recycling of materials and waste must be constantly improved. The design of the product plays an important role in promoting its reuse or recovery. Life expectancy and durability are central. This could involve co-using, such as in car pools, or renting, which also gives producers incentives to develop sustainable products with longer service life. The value of the waste must be realised through increased reuse and recycling. It is about stopping the waste of Earth's resources through sustainable consumption and smart business solutions that benefit the environment and climate.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-597	Madam President, I would like I did not intend to ask for a reply, but I bounced a bit on something that Nina Lundström said about the question of littering with butts and tobacco products, which we would think is a small question. I don't think it's really honest to say that's what we're saying. On the other hand, as previous parliamentary majorities have done, we note that it is to be regarded as a minor crime. The crime is to throw away the individual butt. It has not been considered proportionate to use criminal law against people for the minor crime. It is not the same as saying that total litter is a small question; I just want to sort it out. In this context, one might also ask whether, when we see that we have a strained situation on the law enforcement authorities, which I think everyone here agrees on, the right time to put this kind of data on these authorities. While I'm standing here, there's another interesting point to make. Nina Lundström used a large part of her speech to talk about producer responsibility and how it is obvious that producers should take financial responsibility for their packaging. Last year it was not Nina Lundström but her party partner Lars Tysklind who took the debate. At that time we discussed the need for an increased level of service in the collection of packaging. Now there are such proposals on the table, which clarify financial responsibility and raise the level of service. It would be interesting to hear Nina Lundström's view of the Government's proposal.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-602	Madam President, I would like It is important to also discuss how it looks in our outdoor environment. I think that Sara Karlsson will certainly also meet with a lot of views from our citizens and from residents of different municipalities. I, who at one time was responsible for the external maintenance measures in a municipality, am horrified at the annual cost of picking up, often after adults. You have to spend a lot of tax money cleaning up in the outside environment. There is reason to consider personal responsibility and the methods available. We now have the opportunity to impose fines for littering in general. When you see the figures in the measurements that are made – in the figures that I have made myself available, you can see that 60% is about butts in the external environment – you have reason to think about how we use our resources in the best way. But this is an issue that is not just about Sweden. I note that there are countries out there in the world that work much more effectively on the issues where it is the same kind of problem. It is not only a question of littering but also of what is contained in the buttocks. They contain cadmium and many other things that end up out in the wild. It is important to consider what additional tools we have to tackle the problems that exist. Then I agree with Sara Karlsson that we have a police service that also requires other types of intervention. The police are under heavy pressure. But we have opened up because this is an important issue to review. There I am curious to hear from Sara Karlsson, who represents the government parties, what you intend to do. Will you take any steps to tackle this type of problem? If so, what are the measures if these measures are not reasonable? I think it is important to listen to the views of the citizens and try to take action, but I would like an answer from Sara Karlsson on this.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-607	Madam President, I would like As I said before, my party and I share the picture that we have major problems with littering. Of course, we are also allowed to receive comments from the public. As I said in my speech and as Nina Lundström also said in her reply: It is about adults who, as far as possible, should avoid littering. Fimps are a typically unnecessary thing to throw. Then the question is whether to use criminal law to tackle this problem. As Nina Lundström knows for sure, an evaluation of the possibility of using the bottling instrument to access littering is under way. I think we should wait for that evaluation. Then I do not rule out the possibility of moving forward with that tool in other areas too, for example in the case of butts. However, proportionality should be carefully considered because it concerns minor crimes. Consideration should also be given to whether additional tasks should really be added to the burden of law enforcement. I never received an answer about Nina Lundström's view of the proposals made by the government to strengthen producer responsibility, clarify financial responsibility and raise the level of service. It would be interesting to have it.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-611	Madam President, I would like In my speech, I spent quite some time in producer responsibility. It is also about how to expand it and bring in more different product areas. I think this is the first question to be addressed here: how should producer responsibility be exercised in a broad sense? Then there are many other things that must also be done. It should be easy to do the right thing. It should be possible for consumers and citizens to contribute to the process and for us to know who is responsible for what is on the market. I share the view that we must do more. It is interesting to note, however, that it is Sara Karlsson, the government parties and the Left Party who object to what is proposed in the report as regards producer responsibility. I'd like to hear why. Why do you not want to expand so that there are more products covered by a clear producer responsibility?
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-614	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats' environmental policy is based on the principle of stewardship. Man has a responsibility to actively manage the finite resources and natural values and not to consume or destroy them. We who live now will deliver an earth that the next generation may have as their home. That is an important principle to consider. The policy should therefore be designed so that it will be easy to do the right thing – as we have heard many say here today – for the public, our companies, civil society and individuals. We must make it possible to steer towards a solidarity-based and resource-reserving society and towards good governance and sustainable development. The Christian Democrats have been pushing for a green tax shift for a long time. I was yesterday at Fores' Climate Hour. It noted that we were the first to talk about this with tax shifting for jobs and the environment. Yes, we were first, and we continue to push for this. In general, we want to reduce taxes on labour and pensions and increase taxes on environmentally damaging activities. The wear-and-slip era is definitely over. Our society must be transformed from linear production to circular production flows. This development of society has already begun, but now there is a need for better coordination between different policy areas. Administrative and fiscal obstacles that are liable to hamper development must be removed quickly. The important thing is to prevent and reduce the amount of waste. At the same time, we must increase the reuse and recycling of products and materials. This is something for which individual, private and public actors need to take greater responsibility. Madam President, I would like We in our country expect citizens to sort out their sources. It has started to introduce close-to-real estate collection, which is great, and there are also smart four-bay solutions that we have heard about today. This is what we expect to happen. It works well where it is managed close to the property. At the same time, however, many municipalities burn unsorted garbage in their heating plants. Even unsorted garbage is imported and incinerated from other countries. For me, this is purely educationalally almost impossible to defend and explain. With one hand you do one thing, and with the other you do another. I understand why you do it, but it's hard to get this together now that we want to sort out sources. For this reason, the Christian Democrats have proposed a tax on the incineration of unsorted waste, which is designed to lead to increased recycling and reduced emissions of environmentally hazardous substances. This tax should cover all unsorted waste that is incinerated in Sweden, whether domestic or imported and whether it goes to heat or electricity generation. The starting point should be that unsorted materials, such as unsorted household waste, are taxed high, and that clean fractions of forest residues, for example, should not be hit by the tax. Based on the principle that it is the polluter who pays, we in Sweden have introduced producer responsibility for a number of products, including packaging of various materials, newspapers, electrical scrap and batteries. The logic is that when the producer has a responsibility to take care of a product after it has been used, there is also an incentive to design the product in a sustainable way, so that it is easy to reuse, recycle or ultimately destroy. Madam President, I would like We write in a joint alliance reservation about the importance of further strengthening sustainability efforts and at the same time strengthening competitiveness. It is therefore important to increase resource efficiency and to close the circular system. For this reason, Sweden will work to ensure that further work on the European Commission's circular economy package helps to reduce waste and landfills throughout the EU. We also point out that national targets and guidelines must not be too rigid, but must be able to adapt to the different circumstances of the Member States. Resource efficiency and energy efficiency should be at the centre of the transition to a circular economy. We agree with the government that both environmental results and service levels need to be improved. This is why the Alliance wants to develop and strengthen existing coherent producer responsibility and develop increased environmental targets for recycling. In Sweden, about 15 kg of textiles are consumed per person per year. Of these, only 3 kilos are used for reuse. According to an analysis from the research institute IVL, Sweden is among the worst in Europe to collect textiles. We can't go on like that. The Christian Democrats have raised the issue of introducing a commodity tax on non-recycled textiles. This would involve a great deal of revenue, and at the same time it would have an impact on governance. The responsibility for the disposal of non-reusable textiles lies with the municipalities, as it is considered to be household waste. At the same time, the interest in taking care of old textiles is great. In order to stimulate increased recycling and production development, national targets for the collection and reuse of textiles should be set. We want to introduce stricter environmental targets and stricter requirements for collection systems with increased accessibility and equivalent service throughout the country. We also want to raise the collection and recycling targets. At the same time, the influence of municipalities on the design of collection systems needs to be increased. We believe that it is municipalities, companies and property owners that can best decide what works locally to achieve the higher goals. The industry, municipalities and property owners have long called for long-term rules of play and clear targets to be able to develop collection and recycling. Politics must respond to these expectations. Madam President, I would like Around the country there are second-hand shops that are often run by non-profit organisations or by social companies. These have an important role to play in the circular economy by enabling the re-use of products. It is important that they can remain, that they can develop and that they have their important role to play. Although many already today hand in their used clothing, furniture, utensils, and other items, much is still being thrown away that could be reused. Even more goods could be reused if more were to be done to facilitate the re-use chain. We Christian Democrats have also proposed a study on the appropriate design of producer responsibility for adverse environmental effects of medicinal products. Medicines and residues of medicines in our wastewaters require additional treatment at wastewater treatment plants, and many times it is not enough to completely reduce environmental toxins. It is reasonable for the pharmaceutical industry, like other industries with environmentally hazardous substances, to take on producer responsibility and to cover the environmental cost of toxins leaking through the sewage network or into the stormwater from production. Madam President, I would like Of course, I agree with all the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats in this report, but for time to come, I choose to endorse only reservation 13.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-636	Madam President, I would like Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell said a lot that I can agree with. But I have two issues where I am not quite sure where I have the Christian Democrats. I can go into a store and buy a soda. Then it's covered with a pledge. Then I can go back with the bottle and get a pledge for it. In the same store I can buy a similar plastic bottle containing juice. On it, there's usually no pledge. I think it would be reasonable for more packaging and bottles to be covered by the deposit system. Then we would also know that more would be recycled. What do the Christian Democrats think about extending the deposit system? The second concerns who should be responsible for packaging and newspapers. The way things are today, it's not good. Anyone can see that going past the green fundraisers in town. You're scared a lot. Sometimes it looks like there's a bigger garbage mountain outside than inside. Today, producers are responsible for taking care of cartons, newspapers and packaging. We humans get to walk around half the city with our newspapers, bags and cartons to get to already overcrowded collection stations. Then I think Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell said something interesting. You said: Municipalities and companies are best placed to decide their solutions locally. Then I wonder: would it not be a good idea if we made sure that the municipalities were given full responsibility for the collection of packaging and newspapers, so that they can decide how this is to be collected? They're collecting the other household waste. It makes sense that they also bring the newspapers and packaging with them at once, doesn't it?
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-641	Madam President, I would like Yeah, Jens, I'm just like you're a person who likes this pawn system. That's what I've been doing since I was a kid. My great-grandfather started a brewery. There, deposit systems were introduced very early, and it has worked very well. I can well imagine that it will be extended to the extent that it works with different content, of course. There is apparently content that would not work for recycling, but it is a technical issue. I am in favour of this – absolutely. There's a deal. Should municipalities take responsibility for everything? You're different here from the rest of the room. We have the Social Democrats, who are functional socialists. You want to go further. I understand that. You think: Let them take care of everything! We don't agree on that. We think it works well in that there is a market for this. Packaging and newspaper collections have a responsibility, but this should be made clear. I just happened to show you a picture of what it might look like outside the green containers. It looks terrible around Sweden. Something must be done there. It is a little different in terms of what one considers to be responsible for. But, of course, the municipalities cannot evade their responsibility to make this work properly. I think it is wrong, then, to ban this for municipalities where it works today and where there are good collection systems for packaging and newspapers. They should not be prohibited from pursuing it further, which is included in the Government's proposal.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-644	Madam President, I would like Nor, as you know, do we support the Government's proposal, which I described as half a measure. But it is something that is not really connected in the Christian Democrats' reasoning, I think. If municipalities are responsible for the remaining part of household waste, why should they not also be responsible for newspapers and packaging? This issue has been investigated twice in state investigations. Both times, re-communisation has been proposed, i.e. that municipalities should be given responsibility for the collection. But it can also be solved so that producers have the financial responsibility. The polluter pays should of course apply. I think, Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell, that your local politicians, were in Närke they are now sitting somewhere, think it's a pretty good idea that the municipalities should be responsible for the collection also of packaging and newspapers. At least that's how you reason from the side of SKL, who organizes our municipal politicians. I think that is the only rational solution. If the Christian Democrats have a better idea of how to get rid of the garbage mountain outside the green collection boxes, tell us here and now! We want to hear it.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-648	Madam President, I would like Producer responsibility is important, and we want to keep it. How it is designed can be discussed, just as you say, but there should be a producer responsibility. The fact that you have the responsibility to take care of the product yourself is, as I said in my post, an important incentive to design or design the product in such a way. There's a subtlety in this. There is such a solution. Therefore, we do not want to re-communalize this, as you suggest. On the other hand, we believe that there must be reasonable opportunities for municipalities to participate and influence how this is designed and to get rid of the garbage mountains that currently exist around these containers so that sometimes you hardly come forward to throw away what is to be recycled. It is precisely this part that we have to do something about. Some citizens do not understand that it is not possible to throw away anything there – it must be made clear. The municipality is interested in that it should be nice and neat in all parts of the municipality but feels no responsibility for it, and you have to get to that.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-651	Madam President, I would like Me and the Moderates are of course behind all our reservations, but for time winning I only agree to reservation 4. It is an election year, and a bit of a summary of what the government has achieved during its term of office is in order. Have the objectives of the electoral movement been achieved? Among other things, it was said that it would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. Is that where you're headed? No, I wouldn't say you are. In spite of the boom, Sweden has fallen behind in the ranking. We agree that Sweden and the world are in a boom. A boom is normally an opportunity for those furthest from the labour market to enter it. Instead, the Swedish labour market is now characterised by a growing division. An increasing proportion of the unemployed, mostly of those born abroad and those without upper secondary education, are increasingly away from the labour market. This means that exclusion, unemployment and dependency on benefits are adamant. From the government parties we often hear that the Swedish labour market is doing well, and the government beats its chest. But, Madam President, it does not apply to everyone. I was in Älvkarleby a few weeks ago. It is located in northern Uppsala County. There, youth unemployment is close to 25%. Half of the young unemployed have been unemployed for at least one year, and about half of them have been unemployed for 24 months or more. This situation exists despite the fact that Älvkarleby is quite close to Gävl e, which has a good labour market and has good communications to Uppsala and Stockholm. The difference between Swedish-born and immigrants is great in terms of the proportion in employment: The unemployment rate among Swedish-born is 4 per cent, while that for immigrants is 14.6 per cent. It is strange that you can then be so satisfied. There are many of us who have criticised the government for lack of reforms during its term of office in order to lower the thresholds for entering the labour market. And we are not alone in this – both the Institute of Economic Affairs and the Council of Finance believe that the government's actions have only an extremely marginal effect on employment. The fall in unemployment is due to the boom and not to the better functioning of the labour market. Too many are still outside the labour market. The Moderates aim to halve the job gap between native and foreign born and to create half a million new jobs by 2025. Why is that important? Because exclusion is dangerous both to the individual and to society as a whole. Not having a job to go to, not feeling needed and not being able to make a living can lead to a sense of hopelessness, which is also the breeding ground for crime and a growing shadow society. Every dollar that goes to grants is a crown that could instead be used for school, care and police. This is why the work line needs to be developed, but action and reform are needed to achieve this. We want to do what we can to remove the obstacles that exist to entry into society and create the conditions for a fair labour market. A large and increasing proportion of those currently unemployed are weakly rooted in the labour market and difficulties in establishing themselves. New ways into the labour market and increased incentives for companies to hire are needed. It is therefore important to lower the thresholds for entering the labour market. I wanted to mention some of our suggestions. A proposal concerns simple jobs. I would like to say first of all that I know that the term a simple job is not automatically a simple job, but it is a concept that many people use for jobs with simpler qualifications. I also believe that we should not just talk about simple jobs, but at the same time focus on the labour market we see today, with modernisation, the need for education and digitalisation. But we do have a large group of people who are outside the labour market, and we know that for this group it is important for this type of job to enter the labour market. Professor Lars Calmfors recently presented a study on, among other things, simple jobs and employees with fixed-term contracts. He was able to show that those who had entered the labour market through these jobs were primarily born abroad. The study also showed a good development in the transition to permanent employment. I think this shows how important it is for us to lower the thresholds. It will pay to work and to enter the labour market. The driving force to work must always be stronger than the driving force to go on benefits. We in the Alliance have proposed entry as a new form of employment. A few months ago, the government, together with the parties, presented what is called a start-up position. I think it is good that the parties have agreed, but I think the Alliance's proposals are better. However, it is clear that we are all seeing a problem in the labour market with people who find it difficult to get in and that we have to do something about it. I am therefore a little surprised by the high tone of the debate, including in a film that recently circulated in social media. Our criticism of start-ups is that the whole cost is spent on taxpayers. The Alliance's proposal is to look like an apprenticeship for newcomers and young people. We in the Alliance believe that it takes longer for a probationary period than the current six months. We want to extend this period to 12 months so that more people can prove their worth. Then more employers would dare to open the door to those who are out of work. The Moderates also suggest that many more should have the chance to start their own business. Lowering the thresholds into the labour market is important, but it is also important to remove barriers to setting up and running businesses. Many people want and should be given the opportunity to change and become entrepreneurs, even if they are already in employment. That is why we are proposing an extension of the right to leave to start a business, from the six months currently in force to twelve months. It is a great personal commitment to start a business, and it is often demanding in the start-up phase. Therefore, we believe that a longer probationary period is necessary to get more companies in Sweden. Madam President, I would like I would like to say a few words about the Employment Security Act. This is a debate that I think has completely lost its sense and balance recently, which is unfortunate. We need a serious debate on labour law, and then we also need to discuss the Employment Protection Act. The fact that the Moderates, like many other parties, have taken a stand to reform and review the law is no wonder. The law was established almost 50 years ago, and much has changed in the labour market since then. The Moderates want to see fair labour law that protects against arbitrary redundancies and at the same time adapts to today's labour market. Mr President, I would like to say that. What we are proposing is that the rotation rules should be based to a greater extent on skills, that is to say, on strengthening job security and clarifying what is already in force in many places but which are currently negotiated in the individual workplace between trade unions and employers. We believe that this should apply to all workers. At the same time, the Moderates want to create the conditions for a modern labour market where people can change their careers but also build their skills to keep their jobs, advance and make a career. With more people who dare to switch jobs and careers, we believe that we will have a better functioning labour market. Among other things, we want the university to be given a special transition assignment combined with improved opportunities to study later in life. So we do not want to abolish the security of the labour market or any of the many other things claimed in the debate. Madam President, I would like I wish a dignified debate in the election movement on all labour market issues, because Sweden is facing major challenges and problems. We are now in a boom that has been neglected by the government, and we have an increasingly profound division of the labour market. Sweden needs solutions.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-678	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that, of course, we are in favour of all our reservations, plus our specific requests, but I am only in favour of reservations 8 and 16 for time-winning. As you know, we Swedish democrats have a pragmatic approach to labour market policy. We do not lock ourselves at the classic right-left scale. Today's labour market is far too complex for this type of old-fashioned solutions. Instead, we must tackle the problems we face without red or blue blind spots. We Swedish democrats see a number of areas in which we in politics have to break in. The most important asset for Swedish companies is the labour force. We must give priority to the future supply of skills, and there are a number of ways to go about this. In the long term, we need to review the link between education and the needs of the labour market. We must encourage young people in various ways to have a clear focus on the labour market when choosing education. We need to introduce real apprenticeships. We need to give people a chance to learn a profession while studying their upper secondary school grades. I am talking about a completely new form of employment that should be aimed at everyone who needs it, regardless of where you are born or age. We have, among other things, 600 000 adults who lack upper secondary education, which is almost necessary to get a job today. We are in favour of apprenticeships combining vocational training as an apprentice with studies in order to acquire precisely upper secondary skills. While we are making a closer link between education and the labour market, we must encourage further training in working life, especially in economic downturns. Sweden is a knowledge nation and will remain so. The time for simple solutions and, for that matter, more simple jobs are over. Throughout the political spectrum, we are talking about separate solutions and different varieties of simple jobs. Why? Do you see a future for Sweden if we are to focus on re-establishing the type of job that we have spent the last few decades rationalising away and that is not being demanded in the labour market today? Go into any Ica store, and they probably have some manual cashiers, but most of them also have self-scanning. That's the way it goes, towards self-scanning, not someone picking up your goods for you. Of course, through strong tax subsidies and wage subsidies, creating incentives for jobs that the market does not otherwise demand can in some cases be a solution, for example when you want to trade black jobs for whites. But it can also be a dangerous development that threatens Sweden's future as a highly productive knowledge nation, because we should not adapt the labour market to the lack of knowledge that exists in the job seekers. We must ensure that job seekers are lifted in order to match the labour market needs of the future. That's the right solution. Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats went out last week talking about labour migration. The Social Democrats are, of course, a bit of experts at signposting the electoral promises which they then forget during the subsequent term of office, especially if they are in power. Then, like Fågel Fenix, the same electoral vows arise four years later, so also now. It's getting a little hard to take seriously. Yes, the Social Democrats are at all difficult to take seriously these days. What was racism and xenophobia yesterday is approved by the same representative today. Having said that, the Social Democrats can get their proposals through when it comes to labour immigration, but really only with the help of us. There is that possibility, but then you must be serious. Only yesterday, the Prime Minister announced that immigrants should learn Swedish. The Social Democrats want to introduce what they call language duty. It is also not a new political proposal, believe me. It would be easy for me, too, to talk in a bit of a tedious way, but I think I am abstaining. We in the Swedish Democrats want to be clear about what policy we want to see in the area of skills provision. Sweden will always need to bring in qualified workers from outside, but this must be done in an orderly manner. We are talking about a structure for qualified labour migration. A constant influx of low-skilled economic migrants who need labour market policy measures for decades is no future for the Swedish labour market. Madam President, I would like The anti-business policy of the social democrats is, by extension, also a anti-labour policy, for that is what will be the effect. If the company is forced to close or move abroad, workers lose their jobs. The Swedish Democrats want to give small businesses the opportunity to retain key skills in times when they are sometimes forced to resign. This would increase the chances for small businesses to survive and remain as employers, and we think that is a good thing for Swedish democrats. The rules of order, as they stand today, must be changed. We want to increase the exceptions from two to five. It is a most reasonable change that maintains workers' security, for they are left with a company in the labour market that might otherwise be in danger of being knocked out. If a company can maintain its key competence, it will strengthen it. In this strength lies the company's ability to continue to exist and grow. It will also be Sweden's strength in terms of competitiveness. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats believe that Sweden needs more companies. In addition to an improved business environment in general, there are some things that the state and we politicians can contribute. Like parts of, or even even the entire Alliance, we want to introduce a more generous regulatory framework for people who want to be on leave to start a business. There are many people in our country who are employed and who are in prison with good business ideas. Many of them have a permanent job and are perhaps very high on the order list. They dare not risk their employment to test their wings as entrepreneurs. Then we say that we should give them more opportunities and propose that the period of leave to start a business be extended to nine months. In addition to this, we have a proposal in another committee, namely that professionals who are employed should be offered a corresponding start-up grant. The start-up contribution is nevertheless a relatively successful reform. This is particularly true for the long-term unemployed and is managed by the Employment Service with relatively good results. We see a need here, because we believe that there are many potential entrepreneurs who are currently employed but who may feel locked up because they have a secure, permanent job and therefore do not dare to try their wings. Give them the right to leave for nine months, and also give them the opportunity to receive a corresponding start-up allowance during the nine months! If you don't keep your business idea, you can go back to your work. Madam President, I would like Leave legislation should also be changed in favour of parents. All of us who have children know that children develop at different rates. They may need their parents more during certain periods. The Swedish Democrats want to make it easier for parents who want to work part-time during their first eight years. We want to extend the legal possibility of this by lowering to 50% from the current 75. We also want to make it possible to take leave of absence for up to five days during the summer periods when many preschools are unfortunately closed, creating enormous problems for many parents. You have to lock your children into completely new units with brand new employees and other children. It can be extremely stressful for young children. Madam President, I would like We have a specific opinion on the responsibility of the main contractor. The reason why we have a special opinion on this and not a reservation is that there has been an investigation and ongoing proposal work within the government. There has now been a proposal on entrepreneurial responsibility in the construction industry. I just want to declare now that we Swedish democrats will support this bill. The government will have an opportunity to get this proposal through with our help.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-702	Madam President, I would like It's almost like this is a little work practice for me. I've been on sick leave for a back that doesn't want to be there. I could talk for a long time about how important it is to get right in the care, not just get into the care. But that's not the subject of the day. Madam President, I would like The Swedish labour market is currently facing a unique challenge. Despite a very strong economic situation, exclusion remains high, especially among newcomers and persons with short education. The cleavage goes between those who have education and work and those who do not, and it is reinforced by the fact that the match does not work. In the midst of the boom and labour shortages, which are high, there are locks in the labour market. Hundreds of thousands of people of working age are excluded. Breaking the division of the labour market requires responsible reforms focusing on jobs and entrepreneurship, and we as a country acknowledge the possibilities of the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital within the EU. The single market is a prerequisite for good economic growth and, unlike the government, we do not want to hamper that mobility. Demand for labour must continue to be strengthened by the creation and growth of more businesses. The Center Party wants to reduce the cost of hiring, simplify the rules for starting and running businesses and make it cheaper to invest in growing companies. A comprehensive approach to labour market rules is also needed in order to tackle the fragmentation and division and increase the number of people in work. When Sweden faced an economic crisis in the 1990s, the Lindbeck Commission was appointed to develop proposals for solutions. The Center Party believes that a new Commission of Experts should now be set up with the aim of adopting rules on the labour market and proposing changes to them in order to adapt the rules to current circumstances. The Commission should have the overall focus of presenting proposals for a more flexible and inclusive labour market that creates the conditions for Swedish global competitiveness and hinders the two-tiering that we see. Today, some employees are without security, while others are locked up in jobs that they do not enjoy or feel good about. It is the result of a rigid labour market that makes it the most precarious for those who have the weakest position in the labour market. The situation is unfair and requires solutions for greater and fairer security. There is a need for a more modern labour law and employment protection that is more linked to skills than to how long you have been in the workplace. In a first step, the Center Party wants all companies with up to 50 employees to be completely exempted from the rules of rotation, which in practice means all small and medium-sized enterprises. The greatest security in the labour market is not employment protection, but the possibility of influencing their work situation, the existence of new jobs for those who become unemployed, and the availability of good opportunities for transition, further training and upgrading of skills. The regulatory framework must be adapted to the fact that small and growing companies are increasingly responsible for job creation. Large companies have a very important role in the Swedish economy. But today's labour market rules, which were created at a time when large companies dominated the Swedish labour market, hinder the growth of tomorrow's jobs. Business has changed, but the conflict rules still look much like they did when the 1928 collective agreement law was drafted, with great emphasis on strengthening the then relatively weak position of trade unions and workers vis-à-vis employers. Today, rather, the situation is reversed. In order not to risk Sweden's international competitiveness, employers and trade unions need to be more equal partners. A principle of proportionality for labour market conflicts should therefore be introduced. The possibility of blocking companies without organised labour and the possibility of sympathies should be reviewed and adapted to current circumstances. Together with the aforementioned changes, the possibility of conversion must be strengthened. Unemployment insurance shall be a strong conversion insurance providing security in the event of unemployment. The level of compensation should be generous initially, but will be reduced more quickly and contain clear deadlines. The insurance should support during a transition, not be a long-term supply. Furthermore, the opportunities for further training and lifelong learning must be better than they are today. A long and productive working life also presupposes that there is a working environment that does not wear people out prematurely either physically or mentally. The Swedish labour market is characterised by a division between insiders and outsiders, between those who have stable and secure employment and those who are outside and whose only possibility of employment is made more difficult by the fact that companies do not dare to take the risk of hiring. The strict employment protection leads to higher unemployment among groups with difficulties in establishing themselves, while at the same time leading to the lock-in that I talked about before for those who have jobs but would like to change. Moreover, it does not increase their perceived security. These problems have existed for a long time. It is therefore important that extended probationary periods and flexible forms of employment exist and are extended so that outsiders also have the chance to show what they can. Madam President, I would like I do not share the committee's view that the current regulatory framework is in all respects balanced and that there would be no need for change. On the contrary, the Center Party believes that there is a need for a comprehensive set of laws and regulations on the Swedish labour market. The system needs to be redesigned in order to lower the thresholds for entry into the labour market and increase flexibility and security. For this to be possible, a number of different rules need to be reviewed. Of course, I support all our requests and specific opinions, but I only ask for the winning consent of time to reservation 22. If you would like to know more about our sports, you can read them on the Riksdag's website. Sweden needs new leadership.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-716	Madam President, I would like I support all the reservations of the Left Party, but I call for the winning approval of time only for reservation 5. Today, for the last time in this parliamentary term, we are dealing with a report on labour law. These are questions that in a very thorough way are about what kind of society we should have. I think it's important to remind you of that sometimes. The organization of working life, the rights that we have or lack and the power relations that we enter affect our living conditions, our self-perception and identity, our place in existence, our prosperity and our freedom. Labour law, which we are discussing today, is the legal framework for the very complex reality that people face in working life. In the Swedish model, which in many ways has been very successful in creating a dynamic and flexible labour market with a high level of employment, low unemployment and relatively high individual security for workers, it is quite little that is determined by the laws. Pay is not paid at all through laws and regulations. But most other relationships are also determined by agreements between organised social partners. This is something that is very good. It provides both great flexibility and legitimacy. These collective agreements are, of course, based on legislation. And if legislation moves in any direction, it will be a new starting point for labour market agreements. When a flexible system is in place to deal with most old and new problems in agreements specific to different sectors, there is also no need for many and constant legislative adjustments. Of course, however, legislation must follow its time and relate to the new trend in the labour market. In addition, the legislator, i.e. the Riksdag, must accompany and see how earlier changes have occurred. It is only to be noted that there are some serious challenges that we need to look at. Madam President, I would like After eight long years of the fallen jobs of the right-wing government, we see today that more and more people are starting to work and unemployment is falling month by month. Sweden currently has the highest proportion of the population working compared to all other EU countries. That's good. However, the conditions for jobs in the labour market also need constant attention. Many people today face a labour market that is associated with great uncertainty. You have a life situation that means that you do not know from day to day what income you get, i.e. whether you can work or not. It's a very vulnerable time to be here. It's stressful and reducing, and that's the way it is for too many people. Involuntary part-time work is another problem that limits the freedom of many. It's almost always about women. We see examples of how basic labour market rules are deliberately rounded when employers use hired workers. These are some of the broad and important social issues that we in the Left Party have raised in our movements here in the Riksdag to modernise the labour acquis. One of the most important things we would have to deal with is the precarious forms of employment. I want to make it clear that temporary employment is needed. They play an essential and important role in the labour market. It must be possible, for example, to take in substitute services when employees are on parental leave or sick. It must be possible to employ extra staff if you have temporary work gatherings or when specific skills are needed for a limited period of time. The problem is that many employers systematically use fixed-term employment to cover permanent labour needs. A combination of precarious employment and chronic understaffing occurs. And it's a social problem. It is a social problem that has really emerged since the 1990s crisis. Together with many other changes in welfare systems, tax systems and social security, the cohesive forces of society have weakened and workers' positions have been pushed back. Insecure employment gives insecure lives. When such jobs are not motivated by clear and concrete needs, and especially if they continue for a long time, they expose workers to the risk of being treated more arbitrarily by the employer. They also undermine the opportunities and driving forces for skills development, and they can be a pretext for the employer to place problematic tasks with someone who can still be replaced rather than changing the content and organisation of the work. Workplaces with precarious employment relationships also run the risk of becoming, in practice, quieter workplaces, where those who work are more reluctant to say away from abuses. That is why we have repeatedly called for the government to address this issue. We have presented several detailed proposals on the table of Parliament. But the most important thing is to remove the general fixed-term employment form. The general fixed-term is contrary to the basic idea of LAS, which is to discourage arbitrariness. Labour law is flexible, but it should be based on objective grounds. General fixed term gives the employer carte blanche. The employer does not have to justify why you do not hire for the time being, which should be the general rule, and therefore you do not need to think about that choice either. Here too, it rewards a weaker organisation of the labour market from the workers' perspective. We also know that the introduction of general fixed-term contracts with the accession of the Reinfeldt Government has contributed to the increase in the most precarious types of fixed-term employment. In such a situation, a Social Democratic-led government has chosen to duck. Time has passed, and the term of office is almost over. No proposals have been made in this area. No proposals have been prepared. And now that the elections are approaching, you can read in the trade union press that the minister responsible says that she would like this to be an election issue. I'm glad to hear that. But would it not be better for them to use the uninteresting fact that they are in government power and thus have the opportunity to make legislative proposals? I have, of course, noted that we have an increasingly open-minded right-wing opposition in Parliament. I understand that a government does not want to put forward lines of proposals that run the risk of falling into parliament. I understand that you have to choose your battles. However, if we avoid legislative proposals and debate on some of the most central issues we have to deal with, it is clear that we are not going anywhere at all. Yet the Social Democrats show that they wish to act on labour law issues and specifically on general fixed-term issues, even though they have not made such an approach in these three and a half years. Then we must honestly ask ourselves: is it the way that the Social Democrats want to caress everyone with their hands and take several conflicting positions at the same time? Is it the case that this issue is not given a very high priority after all? Or is it that it is the government partner, the Green Party, who does not want to strengthen LAS? Regardless of which of these alternatives is correct, I believe that the Swedish people in general and trade unionists in particular have the right to know how the Social Democrats reason. Today, the matter will be put to the vote again here in Parliament. There is a proposal from the Left Party to support it. But the majority of the committee has not done so. That is regrettable. However, it is possible to correct the vote in an hour or so, if you wish. Madam President, I would like The Left Party has, as I said, presented a whole series of motions. I was going to raise another issue that has major consequences. It is about the hiring and hiring of workers, through temporary agencies and the like. Sweden today has one of the perhaps most employer-friendly regulations within the OECD regarding the possibility of hiring labour. For this flexibility, workers pay with stress and insecurity, while at the same time strengthening the power of employers. The hiring of workers impairs the ability to carry out effective trade union activities and to protect workers' employment and working conditions. We know that temporary workers find it more difficult to have the influence in the workplace to which they are entitled. They usually have less opportunity to take part in, for example, skills development measures. The Swedish Work Environment Authority, which has inspected 650 workplaces where staff members are employed or hired, points out that there are major shortcomings in the working environment of staff members. And the trade union press, for example, has drawn attention to safety representatives who warn that staff members do not say anything about problematic conditions. In addition, situations arise when employers terminate or threaten to lay off permanent staff to replace it with temporary workers. Prior to the 2014 elections, the Social Democrats and LO jointly proposed ten new regulations aimed at creating order and order in the Swedish labour market. It was a laudable grip. This involved, among other things, temporary agency work. Under the proposal, the law on the hiring of workers would be amended to prohibit the hiring out and hiring of labour for permanent labour needs. Furthermore, the Employment Protection Act could not be breached by companies dismissing staff and then hiring temporary agency workers for the same tasks. Those are the very proposals that the Left Party has been making for a long time. They are also included in today's report. Now the term of office is coming to an end. So far, the government has not put forward any legislative proposals to strengthen the regulation of the hiring-in and hiring of workers, nor has it taken any steps to prepare such proposals. And in this case too, the government parties, together with the representatives of the right-wing opposition, have chosen to reject the motions I mentioned. Madam President, I would like I have devoted most of my speech to the proposals of the Left Party. But I also think it is worth mentioning that this report presents a Swedish right which has a clear vision of making working life hard for ordinary people. Here is a solid menu of deteriorations of various kinds. These are proposals which, in black and white, seek to create greater insecurity, more arbitrariness and weaker rights for those who work. Instead, the Moderates, who reject the jobs of establishment agreed upon by the parties, want to legislate for worse and more secure forms of employment. The Center Party, as we heard, wants to abolish the rotation rules for companies with fewer than 50 employees, that is, almost all companies in Sweden. All the previous government parties together want to extend the probationary period and thus reward those employers who, even after six months, do not have the competence to determine whether an employee of them is able to perform his work satisfactorily. The Swedish democrats want to extend the exceptions from the order in LAS from two to five people, which would mean that the trade union influence in redundancies is dramatically pushed forward and that the employer's ability to arbitrarily increase. All these proposals aim to create a situation similar to a life-long probationary period for the worker. And the various parties want to reduce the influence of workers in situations of redundancies in different ways. I think this is important to know when elections are coming. This is the essence of right-wing politics when it comes to the perception of work and of those who work. Politics is looking back and dripping with class contempt. Last, but certainly not least: the right parties have different desires to restrict conflict law – this constitutional and international conventions protected instrument for workers to jointly safeguard dignified conditions. These motions are proposed in the report today. Unfortunately, however, the government itself has opened up some changes in the law of conflict, with the conflict in the port of Gothenburg as a background, by setting up an investigation. Let's see what it comes up with. On the Left side, I want to be very clear: it should not be blurred on the law of conflict. No matter who tries to go after it, the proposals will face strong opposition from many organised workers who understand that today's rights are based on battles previously won and that what has been achieved also needs to be defended and developed.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-749	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that we naturally support all the reservations and specific opinions contained in the Liberals and the Alliance report. But for time winning, I only ask for reservations 21 and 22. Otherwise, I support the committee's proposal as a whole. Madam President, I would like As the previous speaker said, we are at the peak of a boom, and Sweden is doing well. It's going well for most people in Sweden, but it's not going well for everyone. We have a divided labour market where there are many who fail to establish themselves, despite the fact that we have a boom. Our authority Arbetsförmedlingen notes that approximately 300 000 Swedes are in a so-called vulnerable position. New arrivals, young people without upper secondary school degrees and people with functional variations are left out. This unemployment exists while many employers have a pressing need to find the right skills. So there is a shortage of work and unemployment at the same time. It is quite clear that the current administration in Rosenbad is not doing enough to create opportunities and dynamics for Swedish companies to hire more of these people. Madam President, I would like If, in this boom, we fail to help these groups enter the labour market, the danger is that many of these people will be trapped in lifelong exclusion and will not be welcomed into the community of the workplace. It is therefore important that we take action. Madam President, I would like Having a job and a livelihood increases the freedom and empowerment of individuals. Women's independence, both from society and from their partner, increases with their own salary. At the same time, of course, every person has a responsibility to support himself. We Liberals refuse to lose faith in the individual's own ability and drive. I am convinced that every human being wants to contribute to our common welfare, but according to his own ability. For more of these people to have real opportunities, more reforms are needed. Doors that are now closed must be capable of being unlocked and opened. When experts and academics look at the Swedish labour market and the Swedish economy, virtually all bodies point out that it is important that we lower the thresholds and the relatively high entry wages on the Swedish labour market. The Economic Institute, the European Commission, the OECD, the IMF and the Financial Policy Council believe that we exclude people from participating in the Swedish labour market if we do not take action in this particular area. In light of this, we from the Liberals and the Alliance have put forward a number of proposals on what we call entry or apprenticeship jobs. Madam President, I would like Overall, it must be made easier and cheaper to hire. There is a need for more simple jobs and lower thresholds into the labour market. Together with our alliance colleagues, we have presented a number of proposals to make the labour market more dynamic and also to give employers incentives to hire more people. We do this at the same time as increasing the driving forces for job seekers to have the opportunity to get a job. These proposals are contained in our recent spring budget. Madam President, I would like Finally, in view of the fact that we have 300 000 Swedes who are in a vulnerable position during a current boom, I believe that the government actually needs to take the necessary reforms in order for more people to be included in the Swedish labour market. Only then can they be given the opportunity to work, self-sufficiency and empowerment. If the government is not ready to do so, it is not long before the turn of the government, and the Alliance stands ready to contribute and take responsibility for Sweden so that these people also have the opportunity to be included in the labour market.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-761	Madam President, I would like It was a fascinating contribution from Said Abdu, where he celebrated a policy that goes in the direction that was taken earlier. He believes that it is a bad policy that is being pursued today with regard to jobs. But we can see that the results themselves have been the opposite. It did not go very well during the previous government period, not least when it came to matching but also other factors in the labour market. This, in itself, has been recurring during the previous bourgeois reign years. On the other hand, there are very good results on the labour market today, although we naturally agree that much can be done. I noted that the proposals made here are relatively classic, i.e. lower labour law and lower wages. Perhaps it is new that the Liberals want to actively legislate for lower wages for certain groups in a slightly innovative and liberal way. Nevertheless, I would like to ask what real examples the Liberals have, either from Swedish history or from other countries, where it is seen that the deterioration of labour law and increased insecurity for employees lead to an increase in employment and a decrease in unemployment. It is perhaps even more important what examples Liberals have where low wages are seen to be a success factor for high employment and low unemployment. The facts available from today's truly existing societies show the opposite. But Said Abdu may know of other communities I have not heard of.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-764	Madam President, I would like I thank Ali Esbati for this question. I do not think I devoted too much of my speaking time to paying tribute to the previous government, but I noted that we are in a boom. Of course, I think the last government did a good job. But you should always be self-critical and examine yourself. To be hindsight is the common man very close. But I think the previous government did a good job, but many things could have been done better. The current government does many good things, but it can also do a lot of things much better. Looking at the current boom, I think you should be a little humble and see that perhaps it is not the three budgets that the government has put forward and got through with the help of us that have helped us to have a boom today. I believe that we live in a global world that is much more affected by what is happening in our neighbours, in Europe and also outside Europe than by the decisions we make here in the Swedish Parliament. I believe that these aspects are much more crucial for the future success of Sweden. Our proposals in the report and our proposal on admission, or apprenticeships, are not about reducing wages. They are really about having greater mobility and a greater spread of wages in order to enable people to enter the labour market. I will come back to this in the next change of line, but it is important to have an opportunity to have your first job and to be able to enter the labour market is not something that I alone agree with. There are many expert bodies that have referred to this as a challenge for the Swedish labour market that we need to address here in the Swedish parliament unless the social partners intend to do so.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-769	Madam President, I would like I want to make it clear that I do not believe that high- and recessions are created solely by the government's budgetary policy. And I certainly do not mean that all fluctuations in employment and unemployment are due to budgetary policy. But it is a fact that when there is a global boom, not all countries in the world have the highest employment rate in the OECD, but it is Sweden that has it. This is, of course, affected by the policy pursued. I believe that the situation we have on the Swedish labour market today is due to a lot of things. It is due to a lot of things that we have done in this society before and that make us have a good model for wage formation in many ways, a good model for union organization and good companies with high productivity that contributes to the prosperity of this country. The problem with the proposals of the Liberals and other right-wing parties is that they want to go the opposite way, away from the factors that have made Sweden what it is. It is not a paradise and not a country that is the best in all respects in the world. But it is a country that has done many things right in this respect. That is where the problem lies – you want to move away from this. The Liberals, although they do not seem to want to know it in open debate, want to push down the wages of certain groups by means of legislation. This is the model they want for the development of the Swedish labour market. So instead of investing in improving people's productivity and skills and having good and well-functioning jobs, they actively want to create, with the help of the state, a sector where productivity is low and where we can banish people who currently find it more difficult to enter the labour market. It's bad for society. However, what I was trying to point out was that even what you are saying is that it does not have an effect, that is to say higher employment and lower unemployment, that is to say, it does not turn out to be true. We can see that if we look at other countries where you do the same thing.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-774	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the change of line, Ali Esbati! A couple of communities that I can refer to and which I think are going quite well are Germany and Denmark. There are two countries that are very close to us. They have a similar economic structure, and this also applies to the labour market. Denmark and Germany have far more simple jobs. People there can get into the labour market and make a pay trip. I would argue that these are two economies that we could learn a lot from in many different ways. When it comes to why we put forward these proposals, it is a matter of wanting to take responsibility for Sweden. At a time when the social partners do not want to take responsibility for helping us with one of our greatest challenges in the labour market, i.e. getting many of the people in a vulnerable position, we from the Swedish Parliament must ensure that these people come into employment. This is the first way we can achieve a more equal society: by giving people jobs, empowerment and self-sufficiency. That's why we think this is important. We have put forward the proposal on the premise that if the social partners do not agree, we will proceed with this. If they agree on a better proposal where they take responsibility, we are ready to listen to it. This proposal therefore applies unless the social partners find a better solution. As far as the solution is concerned, the Economic Institute, the European Commission, the OECD, the IMF and the Council of Finance Ministers have all pointed to this issue as problematic. So it is quite wrong to say that it is we who have invented this on our chambers. This is what experts and many institutions have proposed to Sweden to take action for.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-779	Madam President, I would like Many debates tend to captivate in either direction. This also applies to the debate on labour law and the labour market. Some people want labour law to be flexible enough for employers to hire and fire people from one day to the next – this to create as much flexibility as possible and thereby reduce unemployment. It is possible that unemployment could be reduced by such a policy, but it would, of course, be unacceptable for purely social policy reasons because it would create a great deal of insecurity for individual workers. On the other hand, there are those who want a very strong labour law, where it should be both difficult and expensive to get rid of staff. Of course, it provides a high level of security for those who are already employed. At the same time, however, it creates high thresholds for entry into the labour market, which in turn would increase unemployment and insecurity for people in exclusion. We must not end up in any of these ditches. We must be able to combine flexibility with security. A well-designed labour law can provide sufficient security for individual employees, while at the same time being flexible enough for employers to dare to hire but also have the opportunity to lay off staff on the day when there is a shortage of work or when an employee is mismanaging his obligations. We must realise that employers and employees are communication vessels. Without employers we have no employees and without employees no employers. Successful companies are good for employees, while satisfied and safe employees are good for companies. We must therefore find a model that ensures that security and flexibility are combined. Madam President, I would like In Sweden we have historically tended to edge over to the side that advocates a more rigid labour law, which in turn creates high thresholds into the labour market. Therefore, during its reign, the Alliance made some changes to make it easier for more people to find employment. We Christian Democrats want to build on these changes, but without jeopardising security. Together with the Alliance, we want to extend the possibility of probationary employment from six to twelve months. It would be a way for more employers to venture into a particular person and enable more people to get a foothold in the labour market. In addition, we Christian Democrats want to enable workplaces, regardless of the number of employees, to exempt four people from the rules of rotation. Today, employers with up to ten employees are allowed to make two exceptions, but we therefore want to extend this to four and extend it to all companies, regardless of their size. Such a change would make it easier for employers to retain specific skills in a situation where staff need to be made redundant. Someone may wonder why we need to make these changes when the social partners can negotiate different solutions through collective agreements. The answer to the question is that the parties do not always succeed in this task. It is excellent when unions and employers conclude agreements and find agreements with which both parties are satisfied, but when that is not possible the legislation must be designed so that it does not threaten jobs and prevent new jobs. Sweden today has a more flexible and better functioning labour market than a number of decades ago. However, labour law is still based on legislation and a labour market from the 1970s. My picture is that unions and employers generally have a better working cooperation today than they had before. This is, of course, a welcome development. The Swedish labour market is well served by as few conflicts as possible and a climate between the parties where one respects each other's interests and can reach a consensus. But just because the picture looks better in general does not mean that there is peace and joy everywhere. And that is precisely why labour law is needed which is modern and adapted to today's labour market. Madam President, I would like Being able to take action is an important opportunity in the Swedish labour market. However, it should always be the last measure, and the methods must, in the opinion of the Christian Democrats, always be proportionate. Therefore, conflict action shall not be possible before the parties have sought mediation through the Mediation Institute. Sympathic measures can be particularly problematic, and the Christian Democrats therefore believe that there should be a proportionality requirement before a sympathy measure can be taken. Such a measure would hopefully lead to fewer conflicts in the Swedish labour market. Madam President, I would like The report also contains a number of claims relating to family policy. For us Christian Democrats, the family is important, and we want a policy where parents and children can have more time for each other. We therefore want to extend the possibility of leave for parents of young children in addition to the time that parental insurance gives them the right to – in the first place to create more conditions for parents who so wish to have more time for their children and more easily get the puzzle of life together. An increased right to leave would also make it easier for fathers to stay at home with their children when they are young. We want to make it easier for families to make their life choices and give them the support and help they need to make everyday life go around economically, socially and timewise. Madam President, I would like Of course, I support all the requests made by the Christian Democrats and the alliance joint claims, but I am in favour of reservation 11.
i-2fzzd4xUb2XxhA7HTPqe8M	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Erik Slottner, for your speech. It was in many ways a sympathetic starting point that you should not fall into any ditch – it's stupid to do it – and it becomes interesting to think about what are the outer edges of the ditch. I stated in my speech, and it would be good if Erik Slottner could reflect on it, that we are seeing developments today with a dramatic increase in the most precarious jobs. If you are going to shift it so that you do not end up in a ditch, you should avoid what has been worryingly problematic. Erik Slottner mentioned that his party thinks that the family is important. One of the major problems for those who are in the most precarious jobs, where you do not know from day to day how much income you get, arise if you want to start a family or have done so, because it definitely makes it difficult to have a safe place to live and to get together what someone calls the puzzle of life. When can you leave and pick up the children if you don't know what time you have to work? I did not hear anything going that way when it comes to being able to avoid the ditch, but rather on the contrary from Erik Slottner's side. It would be interesting to hear how he feels about it. Then there was something that the previous speaker also mentioned, namely that it is important for the state to enter if the parties do not agree on new ways of lowering the thresholds. The problem with that argument is that the parties have agreed, and you still want to trump them. It would be interesting to hear what Erik Slottner thinks about it.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-797	Madam President, I would like I don't know if Ali Esbati meant the start-up jobs here at the end- well, I get nodding approval for that. There the parties have agreed on a model, and I think that has been done because that option was better than doing nothing at all. It is clear that it is difficult for the parties to say no to such a high tax subsidy as the start-up jobs entail. We think it is wrong to use money to implement that model. We believe that the model that we propose with entry jobs is a much better model of tax subsidies to employers, where you get training during working hours and where we adjust entry wages downwards in order to get a foothold in the labour market at all. The salary you receive will be higher than the allowance and will hopefully lead to a permanent employment in the future where the salary will go up. It is a much better model than the model that the government has come up with. Ali Esbati speaks of different forms of employment as precarious. At the same time, we know that Sweden is a popular country to work in. We have a high level of labour immigration, and unfortunately the government wants to strangle with the support of the Left Party, I guess and regret. Sweden is a country that is popular to live and work in because it is a safe country in many parts and because we have a secure labour market. The Alliance made some changes in labour law. I am convinced that some of these changes have led to a fall in unemployment and an increase in employment. Many of the people who have jobs that Ali Esbati calls insecure might today be unemployed in the society of Ali Ali and the Left Party. It is the greatest insecurity of all to not have a job to go to and not to have one's own livelihood.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-800	Madam President, I would like Now I do not think that labour migration is mainly driven by the fact that we have the form of employment generally fixed-term in Sweden. Regardless of what you think about it, the people who have jobs that make them not know from day to day how to work and sit and look at their mobile phone to see if there are messages about hours that they have to chop on see it as problematic. Not only do they experience it as problematic, but there are a lot of authorities that have looked at it and research has been done on it that shows that it is destructive in the long term for the individual to be under that kind of economic and social stress. It is clear that it also affects the possibility of being able to establish oneself. I said in my speech that there is, of course, a need for non-permanent employment, but the problems arise if people have that kind of precarious employment year after year. Erik Slottner then says that it is better than that they have no job at all, but with that reasoning we go back in history and not forward. With this reasoning, we could also say that it should be the case that countries where jobs are very precarious show the best results in terms of unemployment and employment. But that is not the case, and this reality needs Erik Slottner to relate to rather than to theory. Then I note that the important thing about start-up jobs and their rejection is not that we want to lower the thresholds, but that we want wage cuts. That is the difference between the proposals, and then the Christian Democrats and the other bourgeois parties prefer the proposal to yield wage cuts.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-803	Madam President, I would like I want to say that the Alliance is not proposing any wage cuts, absolutely not. We have said that we want to introduce a form of employment in which newcomers and people under the age of 23 can receive lower entry wages than today. It is about a certain part of working time going to learn the job, and that does not mean a reduction in wages for this group. This means that these people usually go from contributions of various kinds to a salary higher than their contributions. No one who is active in the labour market today, no one who has a job today, will receive a lower salary with the Alliance's policy. You're threatening this. One might as well say that we are raising the standard for the group of people who can go from grants to jobs and then hopefully, if they learn the job and do a good job, can move on to a permanent employment with a higher salary in the future. The problem referred to by Ali Esbati has not so much to do with general fixed-term contracts, but has to do with substitute and hourly contracts and that type of looser or non-permanent forms of employment. As far as I know, the Left Party does not want to remove these, and Ali Esbati himself mentions them as important parts of the labour market in his opening speech. If there have been general fixed-term contracts for more than two years in the last five years, this will turn into permanent contracts to take an example. An employer cannot hire people on a fixed-term basis until retirement on an annual basis. There's protection against it. I do not think it is possible to isolate individual measures from each other and say that if we simplify this part of labour law, employment will run away, but it is the balanced policy that matters. The combined policy was very successful for the Alliance between 2006 and 2014 when we saw an incredible success in the decline in exclusion and increased employment. We left that legacy for you. I hope that we will be able to continue with that policy in October 2018.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-806	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating major divisions in Swedish politics. We discuss what working life we want people to have, what everyday life they should live in – a daily life based on insecurity or a daily life based on security – and whether we should move back the development of the workplace to the 1950s or focus on the future. We are discussing these issues within the framework of the AU9 report on labour law. Labour law is the word that brings together all legislation that deals with workers' guarantees and obligations in the workplace and in the workplace. We have legislation at the bottom, and then we have sectoral solutions on top of that, which are regulated by collective agreements for them. That is how we have built the Swedish model, and that is how we have built a basic decency on the Swedish labour market. There are many laws that deal with the labour market, but the legislation that is most often debated is the law on employment protection, LAS. It is about what protection you have as an employee in your employment, but also about the employer's rights to dismiss employees when there are factual reasons. It is legislation that is quite generous to the employer compared to what it looks like in many other countries. If you have an objective basis for dismissing staff in Sweden, you can do this without huge costs. The Employment Protection Act is from the employee's perspective the law that prevents you from being dismissed by arbitrariness. It is a law that is a source of constant debate between political parties. It is often heavily debated here in Parliament, and it is also discussed on some bourgeois leadership pages, mainly during election years, but not in a huge number of other places. In reality, this law does not pose very many problems. On the contrary, it is a problem-solving law. Then why do we fight so much about this one, you might ask. Well, Mr President, it is simply because there is a very clear ideological difference in how we view the relationship between employers and workers and what society we really want to build. What this debate is mainly about is the order of order in LAS. The rules of order are what stands between decency and arbitrariness in the Swedish labour market. That is what regulates who should go when there is a shortage of work in a company. Last in, first out, we usually call it simplistic, but that's not really how it works in practice. During the 40 years that LAS has now been in existence, employers and trade unions have negotiated the rotation rules in the event of redundancies so that those who have the skills that the company needs remain. Contract lists have been drawn up. These are very frequent negotiations. There are very few cases that cannot be resolved at workplace level. Just look at the Labour Court and see how many cases of dismissals and order lists have ended up there over the years – there are not many. This is an issue that is solved practically in reality. Both employers and employees are keen to have jobs that survive and remain even when times are tough. When the Moderates present their modern proposal that competence should weigh heavily in the event of dismissals, they already open wide doors, for that has always been the case. The other week, even one of Teknikföretagen's heaviest representatives, at a seminar that I attended, said that the rules of rotation are not a problem. The Moderates and the other bourgeois parties, including the Swedish Democrats, thus want to find the solution to a problem that not even the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise can identify. It's quite interesting. Do you think, then, that these proposals are being put forward because you do not know this and do not understand what it looks like on the Swedish labour market? No, that is not the case, of course, because, as usual, the Devil lives in the details. Who is to decide which competence should be taken into account according to their proposal, do you think? Who do they think should be allowed to decide this? Since it is the case today that unions and employers agree on this in negotiations, it must mean that one of the factors should be removed. If I feel the Moderates right, it is not the unions that remain, and then you have opened the door to arbitrariness. All bourgeois parties, including SD, have suggestions on how to increase the exceptions in the order rules. The most far-reaching thing here is, as we have heard, the Center Party, which believes that all workplaces with fewer than 50 employees should completely escape the rules of rotation. As most people know, the vast majority of Swedish workplaces have fewer than 50 employees – almost all of them. A large number of employees, with the Center Party's proposal, would be completely out of employment security. It is not a party that stands on the workers' side. Of course, it is already the case that the employer decides for himself when he or she believes that there is a shortage of work in the workplace and that people need to be laid off. Without rules of rotation, he or she would be free to decide who should go. If it were to become a bourgeois election victory this autumn, we would all, without exception, be probationary workers for life in the Swedish labour market. And what kind of society are we building? Is it modern? No. When the bourgeoisie says that they want modern labour law rules, adapted to modern society, they want to back down 50 years in practice, when employers had all the power over working life, when people stood with their hat in hand and asked to work for a few hours for bread and when they had to walk as soon as they raised their voice about abuses in the workplace. Modern? No, it would take us back to all that we have managed to fight from, such as an employer getting the right to lay off staff because you don't like them anymore, because they are vegans, hunters, redheads, pregnant or sick. In order to take something very topical, as the autumn metoo movement showed, many women who work under precarious employment conditions have been sexually harassed and exploited by their bosses – in a situation where they are completely entertained by the income they can get and where a no can mean that they get rid of their job and the income that allows them to feed the kids on the table, that they do not have to cook the macaroni five minutes longer the last week of the month to get the food to fill out the plate and that they can pay the rent. The citizens' proposal would apply to all employees in the Swedish labour market – a lifelong probationary period. Do something wrong in the boss' eyes, and you get to go, without negotiations with the union. Mr President, I would like to You can also go if you point out that there are shortcomings in safety or in the working environment. This in itself creates unsafe and dangerous workplaces. No one wants that kind of work. Silence would spread, and everyone would feel insecure in the workplace. Every day would be different for everyone in the Swedish labour market. This is an example of how different we view people and society from different parties. We have completely different basic values and quite different perspectives when we enter and discuss the political issues. Should we build a society of secure individuals who take their place and participate in development, or should we build a society based on insecurity and fear? For me, the answer is simple. Unfortunately, however, job security has been eroded in recent decades. Today, people with hats are not standing in hand outside the factory, but they sleep with their mobile phone in hand so as not to miss when a text message comes from an employer who needs to buy a few hours' work. We have a gap in the Employment Protection Act that allows an employer to plan all employees' working hours without a rotational hearing. These are things that we need to look at and that we are also looking at now. We have general fixed-term contracts that increase job insecurity. We have taken steps during this parliamentary term to reduce the abuse of this form of employment, but much remains to be done. Today we have six months' probationary contracts. That's a long time. At the beginning of the 1990s, we had a month's probationary period. I remember very clearly the outcry that came from the trade union movement when it wanted to extend this to three months. Today we have six months of probation, and this has gradually increased. Yet several of the bourgeois parties want to extend the probationary period to twelve months – a whole year. It doesn't make sense. Modern social integration is based on everyone's participation, from the level playing field that can now be achieved between employers and employees. If we are serious about a democratic society, which the majority of this House's parties claim to want, then we should also be in favour of equality in working life. Everything else is insanely out of fashion. We can't back down into the future. Today, 2018, the Swedish labour market is moving in the right direction: the unemployment rate is falling and the employment rate is increasing. We see that there are still many challenges to be solved in order for everyone to get to work, but we can still see that things are moving in the right direction. When all the employers I meet when I'm out screaming for help in finding competent staff to hire, then the bourgeoisie screams for it to be easier to fire people. I find it incomprehensible to a politician in the present. Mr President, I would like to Almost everyone in this House has said that they want a labour market that combines security and flexibility. That is exactly what we have built up. If the bourgeois parties want to be modern, you should rather be a majority with us in order to strengthen employment protection and workers' rights in working life. What we need to do to meet the future is to create more secure people in society and in the world of work, not less. I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report and reject all motions.
i-Pwnadu54okc2B7eKaSSALE	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Helén Pettersson! This is nonsense, and unfortunately you are crossing the line. I said in my speech that I wish a sensible and balanced debate on these important issues. Involving metoo and claiming that our proposals would lead to a change in this area is nothing but untrue. Mr Pettersson also says that it is only in this House that we are discussing this issue. I don't think that's true. I meet entrepreneurs, employees and employers' organisations who raise these issues and think you should look at them. When I sat on the civil committee under the alliance government, there was a discussion about whether there should be a review. One of our tasks is to look at, analyse and discuss legislation. Then it was about PBL, which came to 2010, and it was the Social Democrats who wanted to see if that law had been effective. Here we have a law from 1974 which the Social Democrats do not even want to review. For me, it's very strange. I find the low level of debate sad. I had a question, too. I mentioned in my speech the dual labour market and the Social Democrats' goal of having the lowest unemployment rate in 2020. The report states that the committee notes that the government is active in this area in order to create new ways into the labour market. I listed a number of proposals that we have made. Now I want to know: What do the Social Democrats mean by these things? What has been done?
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-835	Mr President, I would like to If Jessika Roswall wants a well-balanced, dignified debate in politics, perhaps we should not start by calling something nonsense, as was said from the Parliament's pulpit, especially when it comes to metoo, which in a very good way has been transformative in Swedish society. It is not possible to get away from the fact that there are many stories in the Metoo movement from those who work in temporary employment under precarious conditions. When the ma n is exposed, depend entirely on the employer's discretion and completely depend on the income, you are also in a more precarious position when it comes to saying no when the employer may go after you in an improper way. It's strange to ignore that. If you want to create more arbitrariness in the labour market, there will be more employees who are more dependent on their employers and quite helpless in such a situation, and I would like to counter that. We have not said at all that we do not want to review this 1974 law, on the contrary. I think there is much in that law that can be reviewed. It has also changed a number of times since 1974, and this has not been done to the benefit of the workers, rather the opposite. As I said in my speech, there is an investigation that includes reviewing this with planners and how to strengthen employees' rights and security there. We need to review general fixed-term contracts. They have really made a difference to the balance of the labour market.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-839	Mr President, I would like to Of course, by nonsense, I don't mean the Metoo Movement. By nonsense, I meant mixing the cards away. There is nothing in the moderate proposal that would in any way make job security more arbitrary. I was very upset about those accusations. What I tried to do in my speech was exactly what Mr Pettersson mentioned in his speech. Today we have contract tour lists at most workplaces. What I wanted to emphasise was that all workers should have the same right, not just the right negotiated in the individual workplace, that is, negotiations in closed spaces rather than ensuring that everyone has rights in terms of skills. I didn't get an answer to my question. Apparently time ran away. But you have had four years to come up with proposals and reforms during a boom to try to get more people into the labour market. I took Älvkarleby as an example with a number of young people who are still unemployed after two years. What have you done? Mr Pettersson referred to a number of studies, but it would have been interesting to see some reforms in this area.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-843	Mr President, I would like to The investigations I referred to concerned the Employment Protection Act. I do not think that law is the tool to be used to bring more people into the labour market. There are far more effective things that the government can do, as we have done. For example, we have created 100 000 more training places. I am sure that you too, bourgeois Members, meet employers who have a great need for competent staff who are properly trained for the job vacancies. We are trying to deal with this. It has not been dealt with in the previous eight years, when, rather, adult education was reduced rather than invested in it. We are investing heavily to enable those who are outside the labour market to study into a profession and get a real job. It's one of those things we do. We also have several different forms of subsidised employment through Arbetsförmedlingen. Soon the new start-up jobs will be in place, which the parties have negotiated. We have heavily subsidised forms of employment. There are even jobs where the employer has 100 per cent of the subsidy rate to take in one who is far from the labour market plus that one has supervision support to be able to train the person while at work. It is not expensive to hire people today. That's not the problem. What separates us is that the bourgeois parties want it to be the individual who is to take the fall in entry wages. We think it is good if it is cheaper for the employer to hire certain people, and then it is also a responsibility for us from the state to subsidise those jobs. It is not the individual who should carry this.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-849	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your clarity in the debate, Mr Helén. It is always interesting to discuss these issues because there is so much power involved. This applies to both the power of politics and the power over their own lives, their situation and their ability to influence their everyday lives. Let us turn this discussion around and think the other way around. Then maybe it doesn't sound like we're so far apart. Basically, I believe that there are major dividing lines, but there is also a common ambition. I think it'll get away when we bombastically thump on in a good campaign spirit. What drives the Swedish labour market, and which is about the possibility of developing individual companies and, above all, the Swedish economy, is that people choose to develop themselves in terms of competence or experience. The same applies to companies. Employees are extremely dependent on what employer they have and what additional skills are added for further development and vice versa. It's interdependent. Having rules that focus entirely only on the number of years helps and does not drive such a development. When we discuss going over and using skills instead, we are not looking for it to be arbitrary for a single person to decide what is competence. This must, of course, be regulated so that there is a common understanding of what that competence consists of. We think it would be clearer for both companies and the employee to constantly develop their skills. That's what pushes forward.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-853	Mr President, I would like to I do not think I am more bombastic in this Chamber debate than in anyone else that we have had on the same theme, because this is an issue that engages me and my whole party very much. Competence should be regulated in some way," says Annika Qarlsson and wants competence to be stronger than employment. I wonder what this means in any way. It is very difficult to regulate what competence is for all different people, I think. However, the employer can of course have an idea of this. Or you can imagine that unions, together with employers, have an idea of what skills need to be left in the workplace for everything to work. Then we will end up in the system that we have today. Annika Qarlsson says, on the one hand, that competence should be taken into account more and, on the other hand, that all companies with less than 50 employees should be completely excluded. If we loosen up what we have now, we will have complete discretion and have no negotiating situation between the union and the employer. I do not think that Annika Qarlsson and I are particularly close in their view of labour law laws. We are close when it comes to the fact that we want as many people as possible in the Swedish labour market to have work, but there is a huge difference in our approach to how to solve these problems.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-857	Mr President, I would like to What Mrs Helén describes as absolutely impossible to define is something that happens in all the negotiations that she recently referred to, so it is clear that this can be done. There are also researchers working on these issues who say that it is obvious that it is possible to replace a rotation system based on years towards one based on competence and at the same time regulate it. What is sometimes described as letting go of everything so that you have the opportunity to quit anyway is not what we propose. It is important to deal with the situation that exists in the Swedish labour market today, namely that the security is not in the years but in the skills. We must be clear about this and describe the development and competition that exists not only in Sweden but also in the rest of the world. It is a question of continuing to develop. People who are far removed from the labour market must be allowed to take a first step in order to develop further and be able to take the next step. If we do not see that these pieces need to be included and made clear, we are not giving the right signals to the people who are going into the labour market or who are there today. This clarity applies not only to us in politics or to employers, but also to the individual. One must know that this is part of being well equipped in the labour market. Sometimes it is referred to that it would be terrible to negotiate away the fact that the years of employment do not apply. At the same time, this happens every day. Instead, I would like us to discuss how this can be regulated in a different way so that it becomes clearer what actually applies today. I'd love to see that.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-861	Mr President, I would like to Throughout the debate we have had, the various parties have had very different approaches to the debate. I am debating labour law and the situation in the workplace of the employee in everyday life. What is regulated there is really what the report deals with, not primarily how to get those who are furthest from the labour market into employment. It is discussed in many other reports that we have to deal with, for example on working arrangements and other things. In some way it is always this that comes up when you discuss the law on employment protection with the bourgeois parties. You're supposed to file thresholds for people to get into work and so on. But it's not about that! The thresholds that exist for people to get into work are quite seriously infiltrated by all the forms of employment that exist with long probationary contracts, subsidised employment, training combined with employment and general fixed-term employment. There are so many examples of how broken the thresholds are. It's almost nonexistent. What the bourgeois parties really want, but do not say, is that they want to file down these thresholds so that it becomes easier to send people out of work. It would be good and honest to name what we are talking about in the right way. To answer the question of competence, negotiations and closed spaces: I think that the social partners should take care of as much as possible in the Swedish labour market and that we legislators should not go in and poke into it. It would not be advisable for us to start poking at what competence is at all.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-866	Mr President, I would like to I'll be very brief. First of all, I would like to say that it is the task of the state to create the conditions for the parties to assume their responsibilities. It is also the task of the State to ensure basic conditions. It is essential that labour law lays the foundations for a working life that meets the needs of both workers and employers for flexibility, security and influence. I trust that the government and the social partners are working to create and maintain a system that offers a continued good balance in this area. Mr President, I would like to It is this system and this model that enables Sweden to maintain both high employment and high productivity. I think that our country is exemplary in terms of social dialogue. For example, the Green Party and I are very much in favour of the so-called start-up jobs agreed between the parties and the government. Those who become employed in an establishment job are given the opportunity to participate simultaneously in Swedish for immigrants and other shorter education that the employer and employee agree on. The model meets two of our really big challenges in the coming term of office, namely to create more pathways into the labour market for those who are currently far from it and to remedy the huge labour shortage that exists in many sectors. Mr President, I would like to With these words, I am in favour of the proposal contained in the report as a whole, and I am in favour of rejecting all motions for resolutions.
i-bf123376ef2fc90a-872	Mr President, I would like to I was going to take the opportunity to take the outstretched hand of Jessika Roswall, the representative of the Moderates, when it comes to a dignified debate on the labour market in the electoral movement. I would like to begin by commenting on a few points with which Mrs Roswall began her speech. Mrs Roswall was a little concerned that we Social Democrats had not achieved our goals from the previous election movement, where we had promised, among other things, that Sweden would have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020. First of all, I have to say that it may be a little early to judge it. We'll see about that in 2020. But we can judge one thing, Mr President. It is that we already last year achieved the Moderates' labour market policy goals in the last election movement. The Moderates promised that by 2020, if they could continue with their labour market policies, 5 million people would be employed. We did so with our left hand last year, as it were. It is clear that the voters can be asked which policy, which party, should be responsible for labour market policy. Is it a party that has an ambitious goal and is working hard to achieve it, or is it a party that has a sloppy goal, like the Moderates? Mr President, I would like to That question was almost rhetorical. But it is important to remember the difference and why we reach lower unemployment and better economy and always perform this and why the Moderates always fail and get higher unemployment and a worse economy. It is because we work completely differently on labour market policy. The Moderates assume that unemployment occurs because people choose not to work. We Social Democrats know that unemployment arises because there is a lack of demand for work. Then it is the task of politics to increase the demand for labour. We do this through investments in welfare and investment in infrastructure. We have the highest construction since the 70s right now. We invest in people, in education. That is how unemployment is dealt with. Because we know how the labour market works, our policies always work. Mr President, I would like to As a small bonus, it also means that the economy is getting so much better and the state finances are going in surplus, while the Moderates are failing with labour market policies and then always losing control of the economy. It is very important to understand those connections, Mr President. I have a few little thoughts. The fact that we may have the EU's or the world's best functioning labour market seems to be a problem for the Moderates. According to a recent study in the EU, we also have the lowest poverty rate in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Strange as it may sound, this too seems to be a problem for the Moderates as you go out and suggest that you lower wages and create more insecurity. A well-functioning labour market is their problem. I do not think the voters share that view. The fact that we have the lowest proportion of poor people in the EU seems to the Moderates to be a problem. I do not think the voters think this is a problem. Mr President, I would like to With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the motions.
