i-83e790899e640a89-0	Before we start the debate, I would like to welcome the representatives of the diplomatic corps to the foreign policy debate.
i-83e790899e640a89-1	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the diplomatic corps, ladies and gentlemen. This year it is 100 years since the Riksdag decided on universal and equal voting rights for men and women. It is a good opportunity to recall what gives our democracy its life: the people who support it – the Swedish people, politicians and officials, journalists, civil society and we in this House. I say this because the accident ravens are now crying out that the upcoming election movement will become dirty. Then I'd like to say, it doesn't have to be like that. That's up to us. We in here can decide to conduct politics with dignity. We can choose to debate with respect for each other and for the truth. Democracy is at the heart of Sweden's foreign policy. Its task is to create security when the outside world is worried. Foreign policy is dealing with the changes that are taking place around us: the climate, which is also threatening our security, the countries that are joining inwards and the people who are fleeing. Our task can be summarised as follows: The primary objective of Sweden's foreign policy is to safeguard the security of our country and our people. We do so together with others through an active foreign policy in which diplomacy, dialogue and cooperation are our most important tools. Our commitment to free trade, equality and equality and our extensive assistance are important elements of this policy. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's security policy line is solid. Our military freedom of alliance serves us well and contributes to stability and security in northern Europe. It requires an active, broad and responsible foreign and security policy combined with enhanced defence cooperation, especially with Finland, and a credible national defence capability. Sweden's foreign and security policy is based on cohesion in the EU and increased cooperation on a broad front in the Nordic and Baltic regions, within the UN and the OSSE, with NATO and through a strong transatlantic link. Sweden will not remain passive if a disaster or an attack strikes another EU country or a Nordic country. We expect these countries to act in the same way if Sweden is affected. We should therefore be able to provide and receive support, both civilian and military. Our security depends on respect for the European security regime, and we shall work through the EU, the OSSE and the Council of Europe to uphold it. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's security begins in our neighbourhood. Our region should be able to withstand pressures and counter attempts to create fragmentation and instability. The government is actively working against such threats, whether they are caused by terrorism, whether they occur in the cyber and hybrid field or in the military. Our relations with Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania are important. This year we note that it has been 100 years since they proclaimed independence. During 2018, Sweden has a special responsibility for cooperation between the countries around the Baltic Sea. We chair the Nordic Council of Ministers, the Barents Council and the Council of the Baltic Sea States and lead the Nordic and Nordic-Baltic foreign policy cooperation. We want to make our region safer and more sustainable, for example through youth exchanges, innovation and digitalisation, climate-smart cities and by combating human trafficking. Russia participates in several of these formats. Sweden and the EU seek dialogue and cooperation with Russia in areas of mutual interest – such as climate, trade and disaster response. Such contacts also contribute to our security. But Russia is responsible for the conflict in eastern Ukraine, which has now resulted in more than 10 000 deaths. We condemn Russian aggression, including the illegal annexation of Crimea. These flagrant violations of international law are the most serious threat to the European security regime since the end of the Cold War. EU sanctions shall be maintained as long as the reasons for their introduction persist. Domestic policy developments in Russia are also negative. Mr President, I would like to Europe exists for the citizens of Europe. If we forget this, we risk losing the confidence of the people. That is why social issues, fair jobs and a good working environment need to be given a greater place in EU cooperation. It was also the theme of the European Summit in Gothenburg last autumn. EU cooperation gives us peace, security and growth. Sweden is an active member of the EU, and we are concerned about growing intolerance and the decline in respect of the rule of law in some Member States. The EU is our most important foreign policy arena. We are working for a Europe that is active in the world, on foreign and security policy and on a free and fair trade policy. The EU should have an ambitious climate policy and stand up for agreed climate agreements. It is also important for the EU to have a common asylum system that is legally secure, humane and sustainable in the long term, where all countries assume their responsibilities. The EU's common defence and security policy is now being developed. We contribute to the Pesco cooperation, which strengthens operational capabilities and efficiency in the field of defence. Together with Finland and Germany, we are leading the development of the EU's civil capacity to prevent and manage conflicts. We regret the UK's decision to leave the EU and wish it to take place in an orderly manner and that the EU and the UK continue to have a close relationship. The EU perspective should be clear to the countries of the Western Balkans, but it calls for further reforms – a work we support. We stand behind the Eastern Partnership countries in their ambitions to move closer to the EU and implement the necessary reforms. Developments in Turkey, including recurrent conflicts with Kurdish groups, are deeply worrying. This also applies to the attacks in Afrin in northern Syria. The EU must cooperate with Turkey, but it must also make demands on it. The EU should not close the door to membership. Mr President, I would like to Global challenges require global cooperation. Sweden defends a rule-based world order, and we support the UN Secretary-General's UN reform plans. Sweden has spent one of two years in the UN Security Council, and we are taking part in the work to prevent war and conflict. We make a difference. At the moment, we are negotiating a resolution on the ceasefire in Syria in order to continue to secure humanitarian aid for the millions of people in need. We have a leading role in the work on children in armed conflict. We have significantly strengthened the UN's work on women, peace and security. On Swedish initiative, a unified council has condemned the violence against Rohingyes in Myanmar. We are working to find a solution to the crisis and to bring those responsible for crimes against humanity to justice. A burning issue on the Council's agenda is North Korea's nuclear ambitions. The country's nuclear and missile programme is a serious threat to global peace and security. We are pushing for a peaceful solution and for sanctions against the country to be implemented. Mr President, I would like to The so - called doomsday clock, which shows the risk of a global disaster such as nuclear war, was recently set up until two minutes before midnight. Today, almost all nuclear states are modernising their holdings. The cloud of anxiety hangs over the important nuclear agreement with Iran. This government is working on disarmament and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons by bridging the contradictions within the NPT and strengthening its disarmament dimension. We will also go forward with risk reduction measures and increased transparency. The nuclear powers, in particular the United States and Russia, have a particular responsibility. It is serious that the use of tactical nuclear weapons is being discussed as an opportunity. We call on both of them to negotiate, instead, new cuts in nuclear arsenals and to comply with agreements on the cessation of land-based medium-range missiles. A new initiative in disarmament is the UN Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. An investigation will look at the consequences of possible Swedish access. Mr President, I would like to The autumn was marked by an extraordinary movement. It is summed up in two words: me too. Across the world, women are overlooked in terms of resources, representation and rights. That is the simple reason why we are pursuing a feminist foreign policy with full force throughout the world. In Saudi Arabia and Iran, we educate women so that they gain greater power over their economy. In Rwanda, we have created a social debate about the father role. Members of our female mediation network work with Syria, Afghanistan, Colombia and Ukraine. Sweden is one of the largest donors of sexual and reproductive health and rights, through contraception, maternal health care and safe abortion. We're working against female genital mutilation. These are some examples of our feminist foreign policy. And we are now seeing how countries are falling behind. Now we are building more alliances, strengthening more women's rights holders and making life better for more people. There are four times more articles about men than about women on Wikipedia. On International Women's Day, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and around fifty embassies will arrange writing cottages to increase the number of articles about women. In April, the Government, in cooperation with the Swedish Institute and in dialogue with the Riksdag, is organising the Stockholm Forum on Gender Equality. It is a major international conference on gender equality, where grass roots and high-level participants from all over the world are invited. The goal is to spread results, learn from each other and inspire political leaders. Mr President, I would like to Democracy, human rights and the rule of law are being opposed in the world. This means that people have less influence over their communities and less space to shape their lives. The world's security is falling. This picture is confirmed by the 135 country reports on human rights, democracy and the rule of law presented by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs last year. These reports form the basis for our dialogue with the countries concerned. We have also appointed an Ambassador for Human Rights and submitted a letter to Parliament on the same issues. Sweden stands up against all forms of racism and hatred. In our work around the world, we support human rights defenders, LGBT activists, journalists and others who are vulnerable. We never accept attacks because of ethnicity or religion. Trade union rights are a democracy issue. The Prime Minister has launched the Global Deal to promote good relations in the labour market. Today, over 75 players are affiliated, including 18 countries. During the year, we establish a long-term structure for that work. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has bilateral relations with almost all countries in the world. Through dialogue, both with close friends and with those whose values we do not share, we make Sweden safer. The relationship with the US is of great importance for Sweden's foreign and security policy and for our growth. That is why we shall continue to develop it, based on common interests and values. Latin America is making progress. We want to continue to strengthen our relations with the countries of the region, and that is why we are now presenting an action plan for cooperation with Latin America. While the peace processes in Colombia have raised hope, the situation in Venezuela is very ominous. Developments in Asia are opening up new opportunities. We are increasing political and economic exchanges with India and Japan. We are a strong driver in the EU's trade agenda with Asia and Oceania. Our relationship with China is extensive. The role of the country in the world is growing, and with it there is increased responsibility, including the protection of human rights. We continue our long-term commitment in the hard-tested Afghanistan. Through our support, we strengthen state and peace building and women's participation. The list of conflicts in the Middle East is long. The suffering they have caused cannot be measured. We support an inclusive process in Syria for a political solution in which women also participate in the negotiations and decision-making. We are one of the largest humanitarian donors in the Syria crisis. Sweden works for reconciliation and stabilisation in Iraq after the defeat of Daish. This also applies to the relationship between Baghdad and the autonomous Kurdish region. We contribute with military training, security sector reform and aid. We are active in the UN Security Council to find a long-term political solution in Yemen and alleviate the acute humanitarian crisis. The increasing tensions between Saudi Arabia and Iran are contributing to growing instability in the Middle East. There is a need for political dialogue between them. The government is working for a two-state solution based on international law in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Sweden, like the rest of the EU, then sees Jerusalem as the future capital of two states. We have a long-standing friendly commitment in Palestine. We contribute to its democratic state-building and with support for refugees through Unrwa. We are a friend of Israel and stand up for its legitimate security needs. Developments in Africa are diverse. Some countries are experiencing strong growth. The African Union is strengthening and regional cooperation is increasing. At the same time, wars and humanitarian crises continue to force people to flee. Conflicts and climate change are aggravating the security situation in the Sahel region. Instability is a breeding ground for radicalisation. We believe in cooperation and participate in UN and EU efforts in Mali, support the building of the Sahel's own security force and increase aid to the region. We see positive trends in Somalia, while the Horn of Africa also suffers from prolonged conflicts and tensions. We increase aid and are active in preventing conflicts and strengthening vulnerable groups. The shift of power in Zimbabwe is a historic opportunity. The new government must now honour its promises of political and economic reform. There is an acute political and humanitarian crisis in the Democratic Republic of Congo. We are in favour of a peaceful and democratic change of power and, in particular, highlight the importance of women's participation. Last year UN experts Zaida Catalán and Michael Sharp were murdered on a mission to DR Congo. We are working tirelessly to investigate the murders and to bring those responsible to justice. Mr President, I would like to When we promote sustainable development and poverty reduction, we spread security in the world. Therefore, Sweden will be the leader in the implementation of Agenda 2030. We are one of the few countries that give 1% of our gross national income to aid, and we are working to ensure that more countries reach the UN target of 0.7% of GDP. Tax revenues are the basis for building a functioning society. In May, the Government will organise an international conference to improve the tax collection capacity of developing countries. The climate has become one of our greatest security challenges. Extreme weather conditions force people to flee, and lack of natural resources increases the risk of conflict and war. The gap between current commitments and the necessary emission reductions for the Paris Agreement is alarmingly large, according to research. Sweden takes responsibility. We have the world's most ambitious climate law, and we make a major contribution to developing countries' climate, environmental and marine efforts. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's foreign trade gives us 1.4 million jobs. Trade contributes to the security of our people. Sometimes the benefits of free trade and free movement are called into question, and protectionism is increasing. We're not going that way. We shall stand up for free trade while promoting social security and an ambitious environmental policy. Through the export strategy, the Government supports Swedish companies' ability to export more and reach out to new markets. We want more good foreign investments in Sweden. The Government's intention is for Sweden to participate in the World Exhibition in Dubai 2020. Mr President, I would like to The staff of the Swedish Foreign Service work tirelessly and around the clock, including support for Swedes in emergency and crisis situations abroad. Most help in silence. We deal with several very difficult dossiers, and some names are well known and often discussed in this House. We always act with their best interests in mind. During the year, we will launch a consular effort in the area of family conflicts, focusing on issues of child and forced marriage. A modern foreign administration should reflect modern Sweden. We will take further initiatives so that people of different backgrounds are recruited to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. Mr President, I would like to Honored listeners! On the day of World War II, Astrid Lindgren wrote the following sentence in her diary: The earth could be a delightful place to live. After all, is that not what all people want — to shape and live their lives safely? Let us not be content with less! Let us act with courage and patience, and let us face the world's concerns with a policy of security and belief in the future – in Sweden and in the world!
i-83e790899e640a89-68	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for an interesting foreign declaration! I would like to begin by emphasising what is perhaps obvious but which I still think needs to be said, namely that we in Sweden actually agree a great deal in foreign policy. That's good. It benefits Sweden, and it benefits our voice in the world. Here in the debate, we will otherwise focus most on what is different, and that is also natural because the audience has the right to know where the dividing lines between different parties and government alternatives are. Such a dividing line applies to where the focus of foreign policy should be. It has become increasingly clear to me that the government's most important area of foreign policy is the UN. And the UN is important. Of course, Sweden should be a constructive voice and act on the basis of our position in the Security Council. However, it is at least as important to protect and nurture other collaborations and relationships, especially those that have a more direct connection to and bearing on Swedish interests, such as the Baltic Sea cooperation, the EU and the transatlantic link. We hear the Minister for Foreign Affairs mention these areas in words, both here and in other contexts. But what we lack is a little more concrete action. We are facing the biggest reshuffle of the EU in over a decade. When the Foreign Minister says that the EU is our most important foreign policy arena, what does it really mean? How does the government want the EU to develop post-brexit, and what does the government do specifically to achieve it?
i-83e790899e640a89-73	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to welcome Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler to these contexts as a new foreign policy spokesperson for the Moderates! It is true that Swedish foreign and security policy has historically been characterised by a broad consensus. I think this is one of the most important assets for us in Sweden. Of course, there have been differences, and there are also today, but there are also a lot of points of contact. It's a force. Nevertheless, I believe that the Moderates have become increasingly inconspicuous in recent years. I can list in any case ten different initiatives that we have taken in the European circle. We have pushed for the global strategy. It is we who have largely been behind this, and there we are building on what Carl Bildt once did. We have also pushed, and ensure, that both the issues of the Eastern Partnership and the Western Balkans are at the top of the agenda. We are the ones who ensure that the sanctions for Russia can remain in place. We have now taken initiatives for defence and security cooperation through Pesco. I can go on forever. Everyone who ranks us says that we are a reliable and important partner, but that does not mean that we cooperate in the UN context. I wonder, where's the line, Gjörtler? Where is the limit for what you should and should not do based on what is important and not important to Sweden? Time and again when it comes to everything you measure in Brussels, it turns out that you appreciate Sweden and think that we are both active and reliable. But where are the moderate ideas? Can Gjörtler mention a single idea that you have put forward?
i-83e790899e640a89-79	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. I cannot escape the impression, however, that this answer will be a little more responsible. When we ask questions, we get these kinds of lists of various loose initiatives that the government has taken. I'm sure there are good examples of things the government does. No one claims that the government is doing nothing at all, but what we lack is a clear focus, a clear agenda, a clear focus, especially on the European Union and developments when Britain, which is such an important partner for us, is about to leave. Unfortunately, words do not go far enough when the results are so inadequate. Unfortunately, and perhaps more surprisingly, the results are also lacking in some areas where the government is more involved, such as the UN. Then I am thinking of the need for reforms that exist, for example, in terms of bureaucracy, inefficiency and corruption.
i-83e790899e640a89-83	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates often talk about the EU, about prioritising foreign policy, and about the fact that not all issues fit. Then the question to the Moderates is: What is your priority? I gave examples of issues that we – with great success, I would say – have pushed over these years and where we are appreciated both in the European Union and in the United Nations. Today, the Deputy Secretary-General of the UN, Amina Mohammed, is here in Sweden to present the reform plans to the UN. That is exactly where these questions come from. We have been very active in supporting her, and we have led people to this work to ensure that we also reform the UN. We have continued to be the UN's best friend in the EU and the EU's best friend in the UN, and now I wonder: Where are your ideas? What is your priority?
i-83e790899e640a89-86	Mr President, I would like to The Foreign Minister spoke in his speech about Palestine and the conflict with Israel. She mentioned that she was in favour of a two-state solution and that Sweden is a friend of Israel and stands up for its security needs. Nevertheless, we know that there are major problems with the Palestinian Authority. Wages have been paid to terrorists and the spread of anti-Semitism has been sanctioned. Given that Amnesty International presented a report on 23 August 2017, which clearly confirms this picture, it is somewhat strange how the Swedish government can continue to offer assistance to this authority. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is therefore: how can the government justify such an unconditional payment of aid?
i-83e790899e640a89-90	Mr President, I would like to We will now sort this out once and for all, because this is also a question that has been answered several times in this House. The answer today is the same as before: Swedish aid does not go to terrorists! Sweden's support to the Palestinian Authority is channelled through the EU, and the European Commission ensures that no money goes to people or organisations on the EU list of terrorist organisations or persons convicted of terrorist offences in Israel. The EU control mechanism works well, and should we find that something like this happens, we will of course stop that support. In the implementation of the aid, Sweden also requires good control and respect for human rights, the fight against corruption, work for gender equality and continued reform work. That's how it's done. I have recently visited Palestine. At that time, I also met with Palestinian representatives, and in all our contacts with them, we stress how important it is to stick with them. We also make sure to educate people so that they become good at running administration as well. Swedish aid does not go to terrorists. That's just the way it is!
i-83e790899e640a89-95	Mr President, I would like to It is clear from Amnesty International's report that there are attacks, sanctioned by the Palestinian Authority, against journalists and activists. We know from the past that the Palestinian Authority has paid salaries to terrorists, in many cases based on how long they have been in prison. We also know that today there is widespread anti-Semitism in schools run by the Palestinian Authority. These are facts and nothing that the Foreign Minister can depart from. Is it the case that the Minister for Foreign Affairs needs the report, she can get a copy, because given that this report has not been commented on at all, it is clear that perhaps we should look further at it.
i-83e790899e640a89-97	Mr President, I would like to I am happy to receive Markus Wiechels's report, and I am prepared to read anything. What we are going to do is check that the money that Sweden pays out in aid absolutely does not go to terrorists or to organisations that engage in things that are illegal or have to do with terrorism. In all our contacts, we should address what the report is really about, namely other very important issues. These issues will continue to be part of our dialogue with the Palestinian Authority, with the Palestinians and in the Middle East. We will continue that work.
i-83e790899e640a89-100	Mr President, I would like to As has already been said, there are many similarities in Swedish foreign policy across political borders. I can agree with several points raised by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, including the fact that Sweden's security begins in our neighbourhood. That's where we're in complete agreement. However, one question that the Foreign Minister still needs to answer is, of course, why we only expect support from the EU or Nordic neighbours in the event of the worst. Why do we hope when it is possible to obtain guarantees? Why do the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Government not want to assure the Swedish people that if the worst happens, if Sweden is exposed to threats, if Sweden is subjected to a military attack, then there are guarantees that we will receive support? I also have a question about the Eastern Partnership. The government stands up for the initiative taken during the reign of the Alliance to provide opportunities for Eastern Partnership countries to come closer to the EU and to have a membership perspective. When I heard the Foreign Minister's declaration, it became clear that the EU perspective should be clear for the Western Balkans and that the Eastern Partnership should approach the EU. But to me it sounds unclear, Mr President. I would like to hear whether the prospect of membership is absent from the government's stance on the Eastern Partnership.
i-83e790899e640a89-104	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Kerstin Lundgren – and in the right color on Valentine's Day! I will start with the simple question of the Eastern Partnership. It goes without saying that we believe that there should be a membership perspective. If it has been unclear in the foreign declaration, I am pleased to say that we absolutely mean it. But the countries are very different at a very advanced stage in their reform efforts on the road to EU proximity and membership. However, the prospect should be there as an opportunity. That is absolutely Sweden's position. The issue is very much discussed in the European community, and we have different views on this. We are fighting for the Eastern Partnership to be high on the agenda. The EU will talk about the issue at the next Gymnich meeting, and we continue to work actively with these countries. I've visited them, and we'll keep in touch with them. I often have foreign ministers here and talk to them. There's a deal. I agree with Kerstin Lundgren's first question, and I understand that it concerns NATO. The only thing I find sad is that since the Centre Party changed its position and decided to advocate NATO membership, there was silence on an important issue for our time, namely the nuclear issue. Then the Center Party silenced, which has otherwise really stood on the barricades. Perhaps you can come back and take a stand on the matter and cooperate with us. We have taken Sweden down from the spectator gallery on the nuclear issue, and we will work actively on all the tracks I mentioned in the foreign declaration.
i-83e790899e640a89-110	Mr President, I would like to As far as the Eastern Partnership is concerned, the foreign declaration is unclear. There is only talk of Turkey's membership. The other parts, the Western Balkans and the Eastern Partnership countries, do not mention membership. Then just talk about perspective. The issue is important, not least in view of what the Minister for Foreign Affairs says. The finalisation of the debate at the last Eastern Partnership meeting shows that there is great disappointment that the prospect of membership is gone. It is therefore important that the Swedish voice is clear. The Minister has a lot to do here. The foreign declaration is unclear. When it came to my first question, I didn't hear an answer. I heard a discussion on nuclear weapons, and we are happy to come back to it, but I did not hear why the Minister does not want guarantees of support but only expects – hope. What prevents us from asking for guarantees?
i-83e790899e640a89-113	Mr President, I would like to The simple answer is that NATO membership would not make Sweden safer. Sweden would be more exposed. That is why military alliance freedom will continue to serve us well. Together with Finland, Sweden has this position, and we will stand by it. Now is not the time to change our security policy doctrine or make decisions of such a kind. In addition, we can ask ourselves how things are at present in NATO. We know who is the commander in chief in the country that really decides in NATO, and we see how Turkey behaves. The guarantees may also be discussed in the NATO community.
i-83e790899e640a89-115	Mr President, I would like to This is the fourth foreign policy debate since the turn of the government in 2014, and many good initiatives have been taken since then. This is particularly true of what has been done in the context of feminist foreign policy. When US President Trump presents his gag rule, Sida replies by strengthening the SRHR in his work. When Sweden sends troops to UN-led efforts, these work actively to increase women's influence and participation. Unfortunately, however, we do not think that is enough. We in the Left Party have previously pointed out that Sweden has not acted hard enough against developments in Turkey. We have demanded that Sweden and the EU mark against Erdo中an when he closes the media, dismisses tens of thousands of public employees and imprisons oppositionists. Instead, the government has given priority to travel and trade, and instead, Sweden is contributing 700 million to the EU in order for Turkey to prevent refugees from entering Europe. The Left Party has pointed out that this means a silent consent to the line taken by Mr Erdo中an, and now we see the result. In January, Turkey launched brutal attacks on Aphrin and other parts of northern Syria. It is an area that was just preparing for free elections. The aim was to create an area where all minorities have the right to their language and culture, where women have equal representation in parliaments and exactly the same rights and obligations as men. Sweden and the EU must stop legitimising Mr Erdo中an's actions. The agreement to stop refugees must be dismantled, and we must dare to make greater demands for human rights to be respected before we continue to trade with Turkey. With this in mind, I would like to ask Mrs Wallström the following: what of the demands you set out in the foreign policy declaration do you think the EU should make to stop the silent legitimisation of Turkey's illegal actions?
i-83e790899e640a89-120	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your praise for a feminist foreign policy! Sweden will continue to advance its positions. It is interesting that it has now become the standard and standard against which to measure how we behave. This also applies to some other countries. What is happening is exciting and incredibly important these days. We ensure that in both the European Union and the United Nations we always ask where the women are, whether they are at the table when decisions are taken, whether they are on peacekeeping missions and so on. The issue of Turkey is very important and topical. We are following developments in northern Syria closely. There is now a risk that the conflict will escalate further. It's almost day by day. An already terrible humanitarian situation in Syria is getting worse. The conditions for finding a political solution are also deteriorating day by day. We have said this repeatedly to Turkish representatives. I believe that in all our discussions in the European Union, we must put forward demands for democratic development. Thousands have been imprisoned: opposition politicians and displeasing journalists or representatives of civil society organisations. This must stop, and we must ensure that progress is made in terms of democracy and the rule of law and respect for human rights. These are the demands we must make to Turkey.
i-83e790899e640a89-124	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Mrs Wallström! But we're saying it's not enough. Just looking at things with concern and saying things but still trading and still giving money to stop refugees will, of course, lead to the silent consent of Erdo Northern Syria is an area where women have been an important part of the fight against IS, or Daish, and in the run-up to the elections that had been planned, it has explicitly sought to strengthen the parliamentary position of women. However, as Mrs Wallström said, every day that goes with attacks from Turkey, the conditions for a democratic area where everyone has the same rights and obligations are deteriorating. We believe that in order to be credible in pursuing feminist politics, the Swedish government must act forcefully and quickly and not just be worried. We wonder how the government intends to show that feminist foreign policy can make a difference and stand up for the women in northern Syria who have also been involved in stopping IS, or Daish.
i-83e790899e640a89-127	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for that question, because it is incredibly important! We know how many Kurds we have in Sweden who of course follow the developments in Afrin with horror and see how these attacks affect, also humanitarian. We must try to reduce violence. We must ensure humanitarian access. We must ensure full respect for international law, including international humanitarian law and the protection of civilians. I believe that it is through the European Union that we can also work most effectively towards Turkey to try to turn developments in the right direction. It should also be remembered that Turkey has received 3 million refugees. It must also be described when it comes to developments in Turkey. But dialogue must continue on these issues, and what we do with our support is to help, for example, civil society, help journalists to continue to operate and help the opposition and ensure that we are strong in those areas. Then we want to end the conflict in Syria. That's the most important thing.
i-83e790899e640a89-131	Mr President, I would like to The Secretary of State! When Stefan Löfven read out his government declaration on 3 October 2014, foreign policy became a hot air. One of the first decisions announced was to recognise the state of Palestine. We Liberals were deeply critical of the decision. We were one of the first parties in Western Europe to take a stand for a two-state solution with a Palestine side by side but never on the ruins of the state of Israel. It has always been at the heart of this issue for us – how best to promote the goal, that is, two independent, democratic and secure states living next to each other. I am the first to admit that the situation has long been a political, human and humanitarian tragedy. The responsibility for this is shared by the present right-wing government in Israel, which has not controlled the settler movement at all and has been using violence in Gaza over the years, but also, of course, by the Hamas terrorists, who indiscriminately rained rockets on Israeli civilians and who did not even recognise the country's right to exist. We debate this quite often in this House. But it is something else that we very rarely discuss, and it is the constant unwillingness and inability of the established Palestinian government to seriously reform itself and stand up for human rights at home. One of the human rights is the right to remove its leaders in regular elections. The last time the Palestinians had to vote was twelve years ago, on 26 January 2006. Therefore, Sweden should have made recognition conditional on democratic requirements. The conflict between Israel and Palestine is not resolved by governments proclaiming independence to one party, as in Sweden, or by US presidents without political timing announcing embassy relocations. Diplomacy is the key. What is the conclusion three and a half years later, Margot Wallström? Was it a wise decision to recognise the state of Palestine?
i-83e790899e640a89-138	Mr President, I would like to The simple answer is yes. That's it. We stand for that decision. Of course, we value a good relationship with Israel. We value regular dialogue on various issues, and we talk about it very often. The fact that we have different views on key issues makes dialogue even more important. The recognition of Palestine was not a position for one side or the other in the conflict. Together with the international community and the EU and UN countries, we believe in a two-state solution that means precisely this – that Israel and Palestine can live side by side in peace and security. Our analysis is that two less equal parties are needed for a two-state solution to be possible. I am saying now, as at the time, that there are those who claim that this decision was premature, but I am afraid it was soon too late. Things are not going well in the Middle East, as everyone can see. It does not because of the settlements, the demolitions and all that, which is problematic – and because of the violence on the other side, which, of course, does not help either. However, recognition was a contribution to a region that needs a better future because it has been characterised by frozen negotiations, destruction and frustration. We also wanted to give our support to the moderate forces of the Palestinians, and that is part of our dialogue now. That is what we are pushing for – that the Palestinians too should reform and ensure, for example, that young people and women are given greater place in political work and in their representation. So this is part of the conversation that we keep on and on. We are also trying to help to achieve this with the Palestinians.
i-83e790899e640a89-143	Mr President, I would like to Peace in the Middle East is not doing well, said the Minister for Foreign Affairs. We can also say that democracy in Palestine is not doing well. Soon, two decades without free elections-- that says it all, I think. What is not said in a foreign declaration is also politics. In fact, I am amazed to note that it is the first time in a very long time that the backlash on human rights and freedoms in Europe is not clearly expressed and criticised in the declaration. I think it is a rather strange political priority when freedom in Europe is increasing, when only 11 of the EU's 28 Member States are considered full-fledged democracies and when Poland's new legal system is described by human rights experts as being similar to that of the Soviet state. Polish judges are warning right now that we have perhaps the last months of independent courts and independent judges in Poland. We also see it in Hungary. The President of the Supreme Court of Poland, Małgorzata Gersdorf, says: I am not worried. I'm terrified. Are you, too, Margot Wallström?
i-83e790899e640a89-147	Mr President, I would like to I think we should be careful not to put words in another person's mouth in that way, but we say that in the foreign declaration. We say that we are concerned that respect for human rights and the defence of what is our fundamental values in the European Union are now being called into question, to the extent that it is difficult for us to speak with one voice also in the Human Rights Council in Geneva. That is why this is very worrying. This is something that we are discussing repeatedly when foreign ministers meet and that we must also pursue bilaterally to ensure order and order. But this is, of course, the really big challenge for the whole of Europe. Finally, I would like to say how much I have appreciated debating with you, Birgitta, and how important you have been in this House. Perhaps this is the last opportunity in a foreign policy debate. Thank you, also for everything you've done for the feminist movement! That's fantastic.
i-83e790899e640a89-150	Mr President, I would like to It is important to have broad consensus in foreign policy, but we Christian Democrats have in vain called for a more balanced and less anti-Israeli policy on the part of the government. The problem is that in last year's foreign policy debate, too, it was stated by the government that the hand is extended to Israel. But constantly joining the ranks of UN countries which, in resolution after resolution, only criticise Israel is not to reach out one hand; rather, it is to point the finger. It is as if the government remains in the belief that a solution to the Palestinian-Israeli conflict is the key to peace throughout the Middle East. Of course, that is not the case. The truth is that almost all crises in the Middle East have no connection with Israel. On the other hand, almost all crises in the Middle East are linked to Iran. It is the bloody struggle between various Muslim groups and the aspirations of power of the Iranian regime and support for violence and terror that constitute the truly serious threats to the stability of the Middle East. So why is it only Israel that is placed by Sweden on the bench of the accused? Why does the government choose to be so quiet with the regime in Iran? The Iranian regime is responsible for Asad's being in power in Syria. It is a regime that fattens and arms Hamas and Hizbollah. Mr President, I would like to It is not surprising that the Iranian people are protesting. The mulls care more about establishing Arab vassal states than providing their people with the most basic. What surprises me, however, is that the Foreign Minister has not been able to show stronger support for those people who are now rising up against oppression: women who are throwing off their veils. If anything, Mr President, a government that claims to be feminist should, in fact, also focus on.
i-83e790899e640a89-156	Mr President, I would like to First of all, it is simply not true that we are pointing fingers at Israel. Together with all the countries of the European Union and the majority of the United Nations, we have tabled resolutions which are very clear: the way forward is not the continuation of settlements, demolishments and the kind of move that the United States made to recognise Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. This is not the way towards a two-state solution. We have loyally supported the idea of a two-state solution and continue to assert it. We are a friend of Israel, and we have never done anything but stretch out our hand to Israel. This is very important. We're not on one side or the other. We must stand on the side of peace and the two-state solution and find a way forward. I was the first Foreign Minister to actually speak about Iran and what happened after the popular uprising. Clearly, the issue of the protection and respect of human rights is central to our relationship with Iran. We are addressing, pointing out and influencing the human rights situation in Iran, for example in the area of justice and now, of course, the death penalty. This is constantly on our agenda in our contacts with Iran. So no one can say I've been quiet about Iran. I was the first Foreign Minister to make statements.
i-83e790899e640a89-159	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mrs Wallström, for your answer. I think this is a very strange way of showing Israel friendship. When it comes to Iran, they call a press conference and announce that they are concerned about what is happening. No, that is not being clear enough against the Tehran regime. Mr President, I would like to For the fourth consecutive year, a foreign declaration is presented without reference to religious freedom. I don't understand that lack of interest. Religious groups are persecuted worldwide, and in January the Open Doors organization presented its annual report on the 50 countries where the persecution of Christians is at its worst. It's scary reading. We Christian Democrats, for example, want to set up an ambassador for religious freedom, a freedom that is in sharp decline. How does the Foreign Minister sum up the work of this parliamentary term on the very issue of religious freedom? I'll sum it up as a total lack of interest.
i-83e790899e640a89-162	Mr President, I would like to In fact, we appointed a special envoy for the work against anti-Semitism and Islamophobia and for religious freedom, to create interreligious dialogue and to look after the rights of religious minorities. Of course, that work also includes Christians. There has been a relevant criticism by the Christian Democrats about the title of the envoy; we take it to heart. But we have done lots of activities and have constantly seminars and meetings even at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs to make sure to raise these questions. We have not been inactive, but just the opposite. Fortunately, you are also helping to stir up the debate in this House, and we have regular debates on this important issue: respect for the faith and the practice of religion of all people. This is important to continue to assert.
i-83e790899e640a89-164	Mr President, I would like to The security policy situation is more uncertain than for a long time. North Korea's nuclear programme and repeated provocations represent a real threat to international peace and security. China's ambitions are increasing, and a gradual strengthening of its economic position is evident by a clear desire for increased influence in other areas as well. The Middle East has put another year of war, destruction and unimaginable humanitarian hardships for people in Syria, Iraq and Yemen behind them. Russia continues its destructive policy of fragmentation and destabilisation, and in Ukraine the Kremlin's war reaps new victims every week. And on the climate issue, we have one of today's truly major global destiny issues. If we do not overcome it, the consequences of, for example, more natural disasters and increased flows of refugees will be difficult. Of course, there are many flashes of light too. Poverty is decreasing in the world. Daish's aggressive attempts at state formation in Iraq and Syria have largely been pushed back. In the elections in the Netherlands, France and Germany, populism has been kept in check. We may still find it difficult to get used to an American president like Trump, but much in the United States is and still works as we are used to. And the world economy is currently doing well, which provides good conditions for so many other things. Mr President, I would like to In this somewhat contradictory and not quite easy to navigate world, it is now time, at home, to sum up the four years of the government's Lövven and Minister for Foreign Affairs Wallström as responsible for foreign and security policy, and that is a mixed picture. Swedish foreign policy under Wallström is something of a halt to placard politics. These are great, and indeed often important, words on the plaques that the Foreign Minister bears, but they still need to be examined against the results that are being delivered. Diplomacy will always be a difficult balance between, on the one hand, clearly standing up for one's own positions and, on the other hand, acting so as not to undermine the opportunities for real influence. Too much emphasis on the former often indicates that the focus is rather on satisfying an opinion at home, at the expense of real influence internationally. Unfortunately, we have seen several such examples in recent years. Mr President, I would like to The government's total unwillingness to hold an open and objective debate on NATO membership, despite the changing security situation in our surrounding world, is incomprehensible. More seriously, however, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is also trying to close the door to membership through the back door by his willingness to push through the signing of the Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. The Minister for Foreign Affairs wants to do this despite the fact that it would not contribute to a real nuclear disarmament, but it would make us incompatible with NATO. On the contrary, when Finnish governments, for example, have been keen to keep the door to NATO membership open in order to have freedom of action if the situation in the outside world changes, the Swedish Foreign Minister is doing everything to nail the door, for a long time to come. But our security is best built together with others. We are doing it multilaterally within the EU, and increasingly with NATO. We also build security bilaterally, where the relationship with Finland is the most profound. These cooperations are important, but they cannot replace full NATO membership. NATO is the natural consequence of Sweden's already chosen security policy line. It would not at all mean a sharp throw, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs usually says – quite the contrary. Membership would give Sweden both a seat at the table where decisions are taken and the security guarantees provided by Article 5 – the very core of NATO cooperation. This would include us in the defence planning that is absolutely central in order to defend Sweden and secure the immediate area, in cooperation with others. The road to NATO membership is in practice, and for a long time now, already under way. An alliance government will therefore proceed methodically to Sweden's rapprochement with NATO, with full membership as its stated goal. But, Mr President, there is, after all, much that we agree on too. On many foreign policy issues, we have a long and well-established tradition of safeguarding broad consensus and long-term vision. That's good, and that's how it should continue to be. Various Swedish governments have worked for several years to strengthen women's perspectives and women's rights in the world. The current government may have put a great deal of emphasis on the labeling of that policy, but I would like to stress that we think that this is an important focus. We will continue to work for women's rights internationally in a change of government. The consensus applies to several major foreign policy issues but also to concrete cases, such as the abduction of a Swedish citizen by the Chinese regime Gui Minhai. There we fully support the Swedish Government's demands as expressed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Mr President, I would like to In uncertain times such as these, it is of the utmost importance that Sweden has a well-functioning and well-defined foreign policy agenda. Ultimately, the task of foreign policy is to protect Sweden's security, freedom and independence. The policy will promote and defend Sweden's political, economic and social interests on the international stage. We need a strategic priority for how the external administration should work in the long term to achieve our goals. We want to see a clearer focus on things that benefit security, peace, democracy and freedom in our and Europe's neighbourhood. We will do everything we can to safeguard Europe's cohesion and to make the most of the development of EU cooperation in a favourable direction for Sweden. We will fight for free trade and for reforms that strengthen Europe's global competitiveness. At a time of increased globalisation, we must also safeguard order and order in the world's migratory flows and maintain a legally secure asylum policy. We will therefore put a great deal of effort both bilaterally and within the EU to get a workable and effective return to their homes and of the people who have come to Sweden but who cannot stay here. We intend to defend with our beaks and claws the prescriptive rule of law on which the international order has been based in the post-war period, an order which ultimately constitutes our line of defence. Mr President, I would like to Finally, we want to focus on the climate issue as the real international challenge it is. Sweden is at the forefront of climate change, and we could make a far greater difference in meeting the climate threat if we dared to focus our efforts where they do the most benefit globally. In short, we want to see a shift from expensive symbol politics locally to cost-effective climate policy globally.
i-83e790899e640a89-180	Mr President, I would like to I thank Jonas Gjörtler for his comments on the government's foreign and security policy. Now I have to say again what I have said in this House before: if you have only one hammer, all the problems look like a nail. It seems that the answer to almost all the questions is NATO membership. But there was news, and that was the one about the climate issue. I think it is a great step forward that the Moderates will now also be involved in the climate issue. We have not really seen anything of that so far. I think that was a good thing – that we get a commitment to an ambitious climate policy. Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler thinks it is placard politics. Then I just want to say that, against all odds, we have won a seat in the UN Security Council. Remember what everyone said! Forget it, it said on the magazine Focus front page. As the first country in the world, we have a feminist foreign policy, and it is great that you say that you will continue to do so. Other countries follow. We have ensured that the EU sanctions against Russia are maintained after the aggression against Ukraine and have really worked hard on this in the EU community. We have developed foreign and security cooperation with Finland. We have highlighted the biggest humanitarian crises in the world at the moment on the Security Council agenda. But the UN was not mentioned in Jonas Jacobsson's Gjörtler's speech what I could hear. So there is no such thing. What are the limits of the Moderate involvement? Does it not matter what we do in the UN? Are we really going to choose between the EU and the UN? We believe that both must be done, and we are working on this with full force. We have also received a global strategy to help us, and it is much thanks to Sweden's driving role.
i-83e790899e640a89-187	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the questions. As I said in my first reply to the Foreign Minister's speech, these debates are quite much about highlighting the differences that exist. Perhaps the Minister for Foreign Affairs finds part of the answer that I did not focus my speech very much on some of the results that Sweden has achieved at the UN, because many of these things are things that we also support and welcome. Our main objection to the work of the government has been that we feel that the priorities are lacking. Working at the UN is all well and good, but the focus must always be here at home on the close issues that affect our security in our neighbourhood. I am thinking above all of the European Union. We were fully behind Sweden's candidacy for the Security Council. There was no difference. With regard to placard politics, I think that the issue of signing the Convention on a Nuclear Ban is perhaps the most obvious example in the near future of what I would call placard politics. It is about the Foreign Minister wanting us to sign this agreement, well aware that this will make no real difference. The big problem with this is that it closes the door to NATO membership by the back door. NATO membership is not the only answer that the Moderates have. But that is a very important answer, and it is an answer that we have, unlike what the government has. The government lacks information on how the Swedish security policy will develop further. Nor do I think that the Foreign Minister and the Government are able to respond to why it would be such a big problem, when we are working closely with NATO and when we have already taken the line and the path of rapprochement with NATO, of full membership and also the security guarantees that would follow with it.
i-83e790899e640a89-192	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler says that I am a naive activist because we in the government are focusing on an active foreign policy. He also says that it is better to focus on Sweden's interests. Instead, I think it is almost a disbanded passivity. I don't think the Swedish people like it better. Or can you explain once again where the limit is for Sweden's interests? Does the war in Syria not affect us? Does the development in Russia not affect us? Doesn't it even affect us that the world is on fire? To believe that Sweden could remain unaffected in this situation is extremely naive. Of course, we must do both – be active just as we are both in the European Union and in the UN context. We are in the middle of all the discussions about the world's major crises, wars and conflicts that also directly affect us. We are pursuing an active foreign policy because it is the way to guarantee Sweden's security. Solidarity with the outside world is not idealism, it is to protect our own country. We will therefore release the declared passivity.
i-83e790899e640a89-195	Mr President, I would like to The Foreign Minister, there is no one who has critical views – at least not us – on whether the government is pursuing a line that can contribute to a better situation in Syria. I have not heard anyone critical of such a development. If the Swedish Government and Sweden can contribute there, it is of course excellent. The criticism that we have is that one must have a clear focus in our neighbourhood, and that is where we think the government lacks answers. What does the Swedish Government want with EU membership after Brexit, for example? I asked the question earlier, but I do not think I am getting a clear answer. Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs want to see an EU that changes over more in supranationality and takes over more of the Member States' responsibilities, or what is the Swedish Government's response? What direction do you think EU cooperation should take? I think that the government's answer has not been answered in that part.
i-83e790899e640a89-197	Mr President, I would like to Even today, the Moderates are very clear about their view of NATO. We heard here how the Moderates really want to rush into this defense cooperation. My question is really very simple for that reason. How can Sweden become safer if you join the same alliance as Turkey? How would the Moderates feel comfortable working with a country like Erdo 中 ans Turkey?
i-VMi7k3tRSaS6fWFyntKS73	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Markus Wiechel! I think it is necessary to remember what NATO is. NATO is a defence policy cooperation between free and independent countries. This means that you have certain guarantees and obligations to each other if you are attacked by someone else. This means nothing more than that; it does not mean cooperation on all other issues, nor does it mean that critical views cannot be expressed on developments in different countries. As far as Turkey is concerned, I believe that we in this House are very critical of much of what has happened recently. In fact, it concerns developments over a long number of years, but perhaps especially what we have seen in recent weeks with the various attacks on the Kurds in Syria. There is therefore every reason to be concerned about developments in Turkey, and it is also linked to the European issue. We think it is important to keep the door to Turkey's membership open, but developments are not moving in the right direction at the moment. I think, as I said, that we need to distinguish between the different issues. To enter into a defence cooperation is not the same as to agree on all other issues, and I think the Swedish Democrats understand that too. However, your problem, Markus Wiechel, is that you tend to be opposed to all forms of such cooperation. You live in some kind of naive belief that we in Sweden can do everything ourselves. I find it very difficult to see how that would even be possible. We in Sweden cannot deal with security issues alone; we must do so together with others – multilaterally and bilaterally. I see NATO membership as the most logical way to really get the security guarantees we need.
i-83e790899e640a89-203	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is capable of doing a great deal if you only spend enough money on the defence and have a dialogue with other countries. In particular, defence cooperation with Finland would benefit us a great deal, and perhaps it would help to relieve tension if we were not part of this massive defence alliance. There are major problems with NATO today. We have seen it not least in Syria, and we have seen it now that Turkey has violated international law and is attacking Afrin province in northern Syria. We have seen it when Turkey is more or less fighting its NATO allies, the United States. We have seen this by supporting different parties in a conflict, and today they can fight each other – two NATO countries, face to face. How can such cooperation strengthen Sweden's security?
i-83e790899e640a89-205	Mr President, I would like to Let us take it again: I think that we must try to influence Turkey and its development in many different ways. There is every reason to express with a critical voice that we are concerned about the developments we are seeing. This applies in particular to developments in recent weeks, but actually also for a long time. That voice should be strong from the Swedish side. This does not prevent us from being able to join in joint defence cooperation through NATO. It works just fine. We can note what Markus Wiechel is saying, that in the current conflict there are different interests within NATO. That could be the case, too. NATO is a defence cooperation that protects each other if someone is attacked – nothing else.
i-83e790899e640a89-207	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to agree with Jonas Gjörtler's observation that there is quite a great deal of agreement in this House on key foreign policy issues. It is of course very valuable – we are a small country and make up just over one per mil of the world's population. I would therefore like to agree with you on the issue of equality, the fight for human rights, etc. If we stop at this with values, let me say that one of the most important boundaries of party politics is that between the right and the extreme right or right-wing populism. It has maintained the classic right-wing parties in Europe for a long time, and it has been very important. In recent years, however, we have seen a different trend, which concerns me. We do not need to go further than our neighbour Norway, where the Moderates sister party Høyre has been in government for several years with the right-wing populist Fremskrittspartiet. We can also go the other way, to Finland. There another sister party co-regulates with the Moderates, Kokoomus, with the True Finns – or some of the True Finns, as it has become now after their crack. In Austria, the great bourgeois party ÖVP has recently entered a coalition government with right-wing populist FPÖ, which even – hears and marvels – has a cooperation agreement with Enade Russia, that is, Putin's power party. I am concerned that the democratic right is letting these kinds of parties into the government offices and making opinions that are not really roomy appear to be roomy. Do you share that concern, Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler?
i-83e790899e640a89-211	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for this question, which is important, Valter Mutt! As far as the ideological differences are concerned, I would say that there are decisive differences between the Swedish bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats. It is in most policy areas – perhaps even in all – but perhaps in few places it is as clear as in foreign and security policy. Perhaps the differences here are the greatest. This is because the Swedish bourgeoisie, regardless of whether it is called conservative or liberal conservative, is essentially based on openness, market economy, freedom, democracy and free trade. It is the fundamental element of what constitutes the Swedish bourgeoisie. That is so to say what we see as the foundations for what has made Sweden what it is. Sweden, like a small country, is also very dependent on being open. This contrasts very clearly with the view of the Swedish Democrats. As I see it, it is essentially a matter of solitude. It is a question of our being better off here – we are going to close the borders, not let anyone in and not cooperate with either the EU or NATO and so on. I would therefore say that the differences are perhaps the most obvious in this particular area, and I think that is also an answer to Valter Mutt's question. I think that we should be concerned about developments in Europe, where more totalitarian forces and forces that affirm solitude are growing. At the same time, we see signals that in some countries that I mentioned in my speech, including Germany and Holland, the movement is sometimes managed to keep in check. In Sweden, of course, we also have a very important task in this direction.
i-83e790899e640a89-216	Mr President, I would like to I am, of course, delighted with the answer, but I still do not think that I was given an answer to the question. You must have discussions with your close sister parties, Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler, just as we all have in our different party families. A party like Høyre, if we stick to Norway, I understood during my childhood as a state-supporting party much like the Arbeider Party, the Norwegian Social Democracy. I was quite shocked when one went into government with a right-wing populist party. And then there is the same development in Finland. You must have some active dialogue, I imagine, with your close sister parties on this. I do not think I received a correct answer to this quite specific question.
i-83e790899e640a89-218	Mr President, I would like to One thing I have learned in the rather short time I have worked in this way on these issues, and that is that you should be a little careful when reviewing the situation in other countries. One should respect that different parties have different history and come from different types of development. There is thus a difference between many parties, both liberal and conservative and socialist, and some of the parties called right-wing populist by Valter Mutt. There are parties that have a more difficult background than others, and there are those who have their roots in a more high-tax-critical – let's say – part of society. So it is another form of populism. Of course, it coloures the opportunity to cooperate: what is the ideological basic view? Then we are back in the answer I gave earlier. I believe that the differences between the bourgeois parties in Sweden and the Swedish Democrats are very large – perhaps especially in the area we are debating right now.
i-83e790899e640a89-221	Mr President, I would like to No wonder Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler wants to join NATO. I have heard representatives of the Alliance comparing NATO with fire insurance, and it is certainly important to ensure that compensation is paid in the event of the worst happening. But it is something that comes after the fire has ravaged. I would rather see to it what best prevents Sweden from being attacked, and then we must say that the military freedom of alliance stands out very well in comparison. We now see a tendency to want to upgrade to worse levels than during the Cold War era. If anything helps to increase tensions, rather than through mediation and bridge-building, finding ways out of conflict and from what creates conflict. For more than 200 years, we have been spared some of the worst that a human being can experience. I have heard my grandmother tell me about the anxiety when she sat in shelters in Finland during World War II. I've heard my 16-year-old colleague at my summer job tell me how she sat under the kitchen table to get some kind of protection if any of the grenades were to hit her house in Eritrea. Last fall I heard a fourth grader in a school in my residential area in Länsmansgården in Gothenburg talk about how it feels when Grandma in Syria calls and talks about new bombings that have destroyed further homes for relatives and neighbors. Now we hear how the NATO country Turkey is attacking Aphrin in northern Syria. These stories are things I have heard but have not experienced for myself. This applies to a lot of us who live here in Sweden, a country that has avoided war for more than 200 years. Another advantage that is not to be despised is that we, as non-aligned, are seen as bridge builders between countries in conflict. The choice between being seen as a bridge builder or, as in the case of NATO, a bridge blaster is for us in the Left Party not so difficult. The fact that even the Swedish people prefer to build bridges rather than join NATO is a heavy factor in our position. How does Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler feel that the Swedish people do not want to sing in the Moderate NATO choir?
i-Nd9xUuV6ZfcEV3JL8ffYbq	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Yasmine Posio Nilsson, for the question. This is an important issue, and I appreciate it being raised. It is also an interesting perspective that is highlighted. I want to start with the latter part, about Sweden being a bridge builder and a mediator instead of a bridge blaster. I would like to respond to this by mentioning Norway as an example. Norway also works quite well as a mediator in the world, and I believe that the country is regarded as a bridge builder. There is absolutely no contradiction between being a mediator and a bridge builder and being a full member of NATO. It's going perfectly well. On the issue of alliance freedom, one often hears the argument that alliance freedom has served us well. But the question is how non-aligned we really are. After all, we already have a long and well-developed cooperation with NATO that benefits us and on which we are widely agreed in this House, although not all parties fully share this view. We are not in this sense non-aligned. We are dependent on cooperation with other countries. Then the question is: What is the big difference with membership? At the moment, I believe that the outside world sees us as very close to NATO. We work closely together and carry out exercises together, for example, so we are probably perceived as being related to NATO. In addition, Secretary-General Stoltenberg expressed it as saying that no other country in the world is closer to NATO without being a member than Sweden. What, then, is the difference between being a member? Only then will we have the security guarantees provided by Article 5. Only then can we really expect protection if something happens. In fact, Yasmine Posio Nilsson, there is a not-unimportant difference.
i-83e790899e640a89-234	Mr President, I would like to I did not get an answer to your position that the majority of the Swedish people do not want to join NATO. We in the Left Party also want to tear up the host country agreement that we have with NATO, so for us it is not enough with the answer that we are as close as we can at the moment and that we can therefore just as well join. We have clearly shown that membership of NATO, on the contrary, increases uncertainty and the risk of attacks against our country. Joining NATO means, as Mrs Wallström pointed out, that we will have Donald Trump as our leader and that we will work together with Turkey and Erdo中an, who has recently attacked Syria. There are a number of reasons why NATO would certainly not be a safe path. But as I said, how do you feel that the people do not want this either?
i-83e790899e640a89-237	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the clarification. The fact that the Left Party wants to tear up the host country agreement and thus take a step away from NATO rather than a further step closer to NATO is well known, but it is good that it is made clear here too. I think the problem for the Left Party is that there are no answers to how we are going to manage our security and how this security is to be built if we break cooperation with NATO or at least reduce its scope. I have great respect for what the Swedish people think. In the measurements made, we have seen a tendency towards a more positive view of NATO membership. There are more people who are in favour of NATO membership now than has been the case in the past, although this goes a little up and a little down. What we have said is that we should respect this. We want to see a clear road map for NATO membership, but we cannot say exactly when it will take place. It is of course important that we have broad consensus both in this House and among the population.
i-83e790899e640a89-241	Mr President, I would like to A year has passed since the last debate. Even today, unfortunately, we are seeing people suffering around the world and, in many cases, forced to flee as a result of various conflicts and environmental problems. In Sweden we are fortunate, and that is why we also have a moral obligation to work to help the people in need in the best way. We can do this in several ways. Not least now that we are part of the UN Security Council, we can mediate between different parties and be part of international diplomacy. We can provide emergency assistance in the form of health care, schools and other basic necessities through assistance. We can also be very clear about the principles we stand by and say clearly when the most serious crimes against humanity are committed. With regard to the absolutely easiest – to clearly condemn violations of international law and human rights – our Swedish Government has unfortunately fallen completely. Mr President, I would like to Our Swedish government has previously betrayed the victims of the genocide under seyfo and the purges of the Ottoman Empire by not acknowledging the genocide. Similarly, the victims of the terrible massacres by the Islamic State against minorities in Iraq and Syria have also been betrayed, which is perhaps even more remarkable given how close this is to the times. What is perhaps even more strange is that the government is relatively passive when, in the present day, there are enormous island breaks against vulnerable groups. Last October, Iran-supported Shiamiliser attacked Kurdish-controlled areas in northern Iraq, including Kirkuk, a million-dollar city. As a result, it was not unexpected that the perpetrators sanctioned by the Iraqi Government could plunder, harass, drive and murder civilians while the outside world was watching. The Iraqi regime was free to attack its own people. At the same time, these forces – unlike the Kurdish Peshmerga forces, which have been expelled – have had no opportunity to take care of security, which has allowed IS to re-emerge in several areas. The Swedish government sat still in the boat and watched. Since then, it has defended continued Swedish training efforts aimed at the Iran-sponsored perpetrators. It thus supports two parties in the same conflict and has indirectly legitimised these attacks. The silence of the outside world – and hence of the Swedish government – subsequently paved the way for Turkey's imperialist dictator to begin his presidential election campaign with a full-scale invasion of northern Syria. Erdo中an realized that no one would intervene when he, along with tough Islamists, could attack the Western-backed Kurdish-dominated alliance SDF. The SDF, and not least their female militias, we remember from when they fought valiantly against Al-Qaeda and the Islamic State as our main ally against the tyrants. They have stood up for a form of equality that can hardly be found in other parts of the country. We remember them from when, against all odds, they turned the IS war happy in the border town of Kobane and when they freed IS self-appointed capital al-Raqqa. They have promoted the protection of minorities and assisted hundreds of thousands of refugees who have fled the horrors of war. Now, on the other hand, when the Islamic State is almost completely wiped out, it does not bother to support these valiant warriors. They have chosen to release the wolf into the pasture. This comes from the self-proclaimed humanitarian power of Sweden, which hardly raises an eyebrow. I am ashamed of this. Similarly, we see how the Swedish Government hardly acts in Iran when the courageous freedom seekers in the country demonstrate against many years of oppression. The so-called feminist government, which recently went to the country wearing veils to trade, has barely said a word in support of all the courageous Iranian women who have defied the veil in the country and are fighting against state-sanctioned repression. Hardly a word has been said to support those freedom fighters who are now brutally suppressed by the Iranian regime. Instead, our government here too leaves the weak to their fate. And it chooses to trade with the Putinallied Iranian regime, which consistently violates fundamental human rights and freedoms. Is that really how a humanitarian superpower acts? Russia, Turkey, Saudi Arabia and Iran have several things in common. They are states with a varying degree of great power ambitions and which are repeatedly caught up in repression against their own people and also against citizens of other countries. The repression in and from these countries should never ever be accepted. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is, as you know, a generous donor of international aid, and that is something we can be proud of. The Swedish Democrats believe, as you know, in offering help to the most vulnerable and in assisting with help on the ground. This is a line that we have pursued since we entered the Riksdag and a line that we will continue to pursue in the Riksdag. That is why we are now putting a quarter of a billion more into actual aid than the Regerngen. The government's priorities in this area are in many cases remarkable, as in many cases aid is directly counterproductive. It supports organizations such as Islamic Relief, a sub-organisation of the feared and in several countries terror-rated Muslim Brotherhood that supported various shady groupings in several parts of the world. It also provides almost unconditional support to the Palestinian Authority, as we know, funds terrorists and actively spreads anti-Semitism. This is by no means a good way of creating peace and stable development in the area or, for that matter, reducing global anti-Semitism, as we have unfortunately seen here in Sweden too. Mr President, I would like to I would like to highlight another important area in order to achieve stability and positive global development, and this is international trade. There is enormous potential to further develop international work, not least in terms of confidence in Business Sweden, and there is enormous potential to establish good relations with, not least, Africa, parts of Asia and South America. We can work towards setting up commercial offices to benefit business and increase trade, but also to lift these countries, which in many cases have risen after difficult times. Thus, by promoting a more regionally adapted security classification of different regions, more companies can also operate in areas that have previously been unstable. The position of the Swedish democrats regarding Somaliland is well known. It is a country that is a clear example of how a clearly developed trade policy strategy, in line with what I have just mentioned, has been able to contribute to a more positive development in the region. Mr President, I would like to There's a lot of things I'd like to say, but thank you.
i-83e790899e640a89-262	Mr President, I would like to The ideological differences between the Swedish democrats and the bourgeois parties, which we touched upon here before, are clear in many policy areas, but perhaps they are most evident in foreign and security policy. The Alliance has a fundamental vision based on freedom, transparency, a market economy, free trade, cooperation and a responsibility to achieve, together with others, a secure and secure world in which fundamental rights and freedoms can be respected. The Swedish Democrats, on the other hand, have the final unit as the supporting business idea and want Sweden to leave the EU and say no to a Swedish NATO membership, for example. Mr President, I would like to Today we have a new normal security policy situation in Europe where the line of confrontation between Russia and NATO has shifted to the Baltic Sea region. NATO is today the basic foundation on which the European security structure rests and which ultimately also has the capacity to safeguard the territorial integrity of the European countries. You say no to this cooperation. In the party movement of the Swedish Democrats, it is clear that Sweden should be outside NATO. Why? And in what way do you expect Sweden's security to be guaranteed without NATO membership?
i-83e790899e640a89-266	Mr President, I would like to Sweden can only defend itself. We cannot rely on great military alliances to come to our aid in the event of a conflict. In addition, Sweden has long acted as a force with confidence that we are neutral and can act diplomatically with different countries in conflict. And there is really no direct threat to Sweden that means that we need to be part of this alliance. There are clear dividing lines between the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates, absolutely. Then we can hope that the Moderates also in the field of foreign policy will eventually copy our policy, because it is popular nowadays. After all, we know that we have a policy that promotes increased trade and is constantly in favour of free trade and good relations with all the different states in the world. This is something you do not need the European Union or any other supranational Union for.
i-83e790899e640a89-268	Mr President, I would like to It is easy for the Swedish Democrats to stand here and claim that they do not need the EU and NATO, while choosing not to talk about how it would work instead. We know what it looked like before the EU existed. We also know what the world would look like if we did not have effective defence cooperation. This is naturally crucial. We think that we need to build our own defence capabilities in Sweden – we need to do that anyway – but we should also cooperate with others. Here the Swedish Democrats say no. I would say that there are two problems for the Swedish Democrats in relation to NATO. First of all, you're wrong about the matter. Secondly, you also have your sympathizers against you. We have seen this in different measurements. The problem is the hard core of your ideology, which says that solitude is better than openness, that you would rather work alone than with others. You are happy to dream back to times that may have never existed but when you think that we in Sweden could manage ourselves. Why is it more important for the Swedish Democrats to remain outside well-functioning collaborations than to guarantee Sweden's security?
i-83e790899e640a89-272	Mr President, I would like to No, NATO is not a well-functioning defence cooperation – we have discussed that before. We see it very clearly in Syria, where two NATO countries are fighting each other directly or indirectly. It's not a well-functioning defence cooperation. After all, we can try to equip the Swedish defence. We Swedish democrats have said this ever since we entered the parliament and under the moderate-led alliance government that dismantled the defence and did it more or less non-existent. Even then, we said we had to rearrange the defense. It's a line we've stood for all along. If we start close defence cooperation with Finland, we will be strong in our region. But that presupposes that the Moderates maintain what they now claim, that they want to invest more in the defense.
i-83e790899e640a89-274	Mr President, I would like to I listened to Markus Wiechels's tour of the Middle East and the abuse of various people. But I did not hear how he landed in Syria and about the visit that Markus Wiechel made there. We have all seen pictures of Markus Wiechel sitting under Al-Assad's portrait and how he was exploited in the Syrian regime's propaganda. One headline reads: Swedish parliamentarians regret that their government is neutral in the conflict in Syria. It was a statement about the dictator al-Asad-Assad. Doesn't Markus Wiechel see any problem in supporting al-Asad-Assad? If it is someone who has driven people on the run and who has used chemical weapons against his own population, it is al-Asad-Assad, under whose portrait you gladly sat. It is strange that this did not come up during the tour that Markus Wiechel did, Mr President.
i-83e790899e640a89-276	Mr President, I would like to I think it's a little pathetic that Kerstin Lundgren is trying to jam us with a lot of strange claims. Yes, we visited Syria, which was welcomed by all the humanitarian organisations we visited because almost no Western politicians or journalists go there. Few people go there, but you can't see what's going on in this country. There are major problems in the country as a result of the repression that people in Syria have been suffering for a long time, partly because of today's regime but also because of all the extremist groups in the country. It is clear that Kerstin Lundgren does not understand what it's like to go to such a country – given that there are portraits here and there and that one cannot trust the regime propaganda that Kerstin Lundgren now freely quotes.
i-83e790899e640a89-279	Mr President, I would like to We have seen in Europe how various representatives have travelled to Syria and been under portraits just as Markus Wiechel did. Several Members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe have made that journey, and they have all resigned. They knew that they became part of the propaganda machine, and so must Markus Wiechel have known. You gave al-Asad-Assad an opportunity to point a finger at Sweden and mark the support for the regime. You could not have made the trip and visited those you visited without the support of al-Asad-Assad and indirectly by Putin and Russia. You did the same as those who travelled for the Council of Europe to see the reality of Al-Assad in Syria.
i-83e790899e640a89-281	Mr President, I would like to Kerstin Lundgren's line clearly bears witness to ignorance and that she has no understanding of how many politicians from the European Parliament and other parliaments around the world visit various countries, such as Syria. There have been MEPs in Syria too, but Kerstin Lundgren ignores it. Some visits must be made in order to be able to understand the reality in which people live in terrible conflict areas such as Syria. You have to make that kind of visit, Kerstin Lundgren. I understand that Kerstin Lundgren does not want to do so, because that is not always in line with her perception of reality. It's really problematic. However, ignoring the constant cry for help from both relief organisations and civilians in war - stricken countries is problematic.
i-83e790899e640a89-284	Mr President, I would like to I agree with Kerstin Lundgren's speech. To act as a mannequin for a dictatorship and military regime that has hundreds of thousands of lives on its conscience, both through the old dictator Hafiz al-Asad-Assad and through the disgusting war we have now seen for seven years, is disgusting. Our company sometimes also illustrates our ideology. The Foreign Minister quoted Astrid Lindgren in her speech, and I feel compelled to do the same. Astrid once wrote, "National Socialism and Bolshevism" – it's like two horror lizards in struggle with each other. ..................................................... Perhaps it is not by chance that the two political parties and ideologies in this House that come from movements that tore Europe apart once are also the parties that want to leave the European Union. The Swedish Democrats are one of these. The fact that Sweden is leaving the EU has been and is one of your most important policy profile issues. However, I noted that Markus Wiechel did not raise this issue at all in his speech. I think it is important for the Swedish people, as we have parliamentary elections this year and elections to the European Parliament next year, to find out how you are pushing this issue forward.
i-83e790899e640a89-288	Mr President, I would like to I do not think anyone in Sweden is aware of our position on the European issue. We are against Swedish membership of the EU, and if we have the opportunity, we will work to ensure that Sweden leaves the Union. International cooperation is important, not least with our neighbours and within Europe. But it should be cooperation, and the EU is in no way cooperation but a supranational Union in which the Member States are frequently run over by the power of Brussels. Moreover, it is not elected representatives who make the laws of the European Union. That's a problem. Liberals are the most EU-positive and EU-federalist party in the Swedish parliament and in the Swedish group in the European Parliament. But it is not in any way liberal because it does not actually stand for the democracy that the rest of us see as self-evident. The EU is supranational, and the Swedish Democrats can never agree to that. I heard a lot of nonsense about us running out of National Socialism. That is simply not true; it is nonsense.
i-83e790899e640a89-292	Mr President, I would like to We do not have to go back so awfully many decades to see who founded the Swedish Democrats as a party. I turn 43 by summer, and the Swedish democrats I saw in the streets and squares during my childhood often had connections far out on the far right edge. That about half of those who were on the party's board in the mid-1990s had links to various Nazi agencies is no secret and something that I think the entire Swedish people know about. It is true that the Swedish Democrats, which are a very negative and anti-European party, are a complete contrast to the Liberals, who are also the party that is always clearly saying in this House that if we are to solve problems at European level, we must give the EU more power and more muscle. I am therefore pleased to see that support for Swedish EU membership has never been stronger with the Swedish people than it is now. The European Union is something that every decent democrat should fight for.
i-83e790899e640a89-294	Mr President, I would like to We are very much in favour of cooperation in the form of free trade and diplomatic relations with different countries. We have always been in favour of it. But Europe is not cooperation. The EU is supranational. The EU limits the self-evident right of individual countries to self-determination. Here is a clear dividing line between our parties, Birgitta Ohlsson. However, it goes without saying that we should cooperate with different countries. As far as the history of our party is concerned, it is clear. If you read the first principle program, you can see the overall perception of what our members thought, and that is not very different from today's party program. There are some dividing lines, but there are not many of them. To claim that we have been National Socialists is nonsense.
i-83e790899e640a89-297	Mr President, I would like to We live in a new authoritarian era where so-called strong men rule and place more and more arbitrary. Xi Jinping, China's President, has accumulated more power in his hand than any Chinese leader since Mao Zedong, and an icy wind from the past blows through Chinese society. The kidnapped Swedish citizen and publisher Gui Minhai appears on Chinese television and makes remorseful statements that bring to mind the scenes of the cultural revolution. The Chinese leadership now celebrates Konfucius and has Confucius Institutes set up around the world. But one has obviously missed what the old philosopher wrote about abducting people and how strongly he stressed that laws and not the arbitrariness of the leaders should govern a state. Russia's aggression against Ukraine and illegal annexation of Crimea must continue to be strongly condemned. In Russia, Putin will be re-elected as President on 18 March, and we are likely to have several more years now with a policy of repression inward and aggression outwards. Let us hope that this will be the last Russian presidential elections where the outcome is given in advance and that during the 2020s we will see a transformation towards a more open and free society, when the first leadership generation not formed by the Soviet system takes over. It is of course important to maintain contact points with Russian society in the form of both people-to-people contacts and government cooperation on issues such as nuclear safety and environmental issues in the sensitive Arctic region, pending such an ice break. The Council of the Baltic Sea States and the Barents Council are two central arenas, and Sweden holds the chairmanship of both in 2018. But also in countries such as Poland and Hungary, with democratically elected leaders, there are developments that give rise to deep concern. And the U.S. has a president who dislikes that authorities and ministries even use the word climate change and who, before the UN General Assembly, threatens another country with an attack war – a flagrant violation of the UN Charter's portal clause. In Turkey, we see a democratically elected President using his mandate to gradually abolish democracy. In a dawn raid early on Friday morning last week, the spokesmen of the small Green Party, Eylem Tuncaelli and Naci Sönmez, were arrested, thereby joining the thousands of opposition politicians who are now in the country's dungeons, often without even knowing what they are being accused of. Last week, the Executive Board of the Turkish Medical Association was also arrested, after protesting against the violations of international law by the Erdo中an regime against the city of Afrin in northern Syria, the real purpose of which is apparently to suppress the development of increased Kurdish self-government in the region. The outside world must strongly condemn this Turkish state terrorism and begin to prepare for severe sanctions. Mr President, I would like to However, we must not allow ourselves to be paralyzed by abandonment and begin to believe that progress away from democracy would be impossible to stop. Our time-borne communication opportunities open up completely new arenas for democratic dialogue, with low thresholds for participation. These increased opportunities for communication apply not only within countries but also between countries, with all the new opportunities for people-to-people contacts. Especially in times of increased tension and democracy, there is a particular need for such things as town twinning, municipal partnerships, school exchanges, exchanges of experience between professional groups, etc. Furthermore, the increasingly rapid transition from fossil-dependent large-scale energy systems to systems built around decentralised renewable energy such as solar and wind holds significant democratic potential, where the power of the petroleum industrial complex over policies in many countries may be broken. Mr President, I would like to On 7 July last year was a memorable day in the fight against the ultimate weapons, the nuclear weapons, when Sweden, together with 121 other states in the UN General Assembly, voted in favour of a convention on a total ban on nuclear weapons. Alliance-free states like Austria and Ireland did the same, but not a single NATO country. The fact that the United States, and a number of other NATO countries, are now exerting pressure on the government not to sign the UN Convention shows with great clarity how NATO membership would cut our momentum in the fight against nuclear weapons. And this at a time when several nuclear weapons countries are upgrading their arsenals with so-called small smart bombs, which threaten to lower the threshold because they will one day also be used. It is regrettable, if not unimaginable, that all bourgeois parties are opposed to Sweden ratifying this central disarmament convention. Mr President, I would like to Global warming, along with the nuclear threat, is the fate of this century, and without a rapid slowdown in greenhouse gas emissions, all other challenges mankind faces will eventually be unsolvable. Climate change is threatening to become a powerful driver of conflict, and we are already seeing regions hit by persistently severe droughts – such as Yemen, the Horn of Africa and the Sahel – also belonging to the world's most conflict-affected regions. Sweden has highlighted in the UN Security Council the link between security and climate change, and in a well-known resolution on Lake Chad, it has heard this view. Mr President, I would like to I have deliberately omitted from my speech that my colleague, Emma Nohrén, will later in this debate focus on this important policy area. Otherwise, I agree with what the Foreign Minister has said in the foreign policy declaration.
i-8Q5sKqvAHXZM8Xu1zNtKo2	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Valter Mutt, for your speech. I am a little curious about the Green Party's line in foreign and security policy. The Green Party is part of a government that pushes through a number of things, such as the host country agreement with NATO, the great military exercise Aurora – also with NATO – and new free trade agreements such as CETA. These are examples of things that I think are very good and where the Moderates are in full agreement with the government. At the same time, I note that Valter Mutt, more as a rule than as an exception, tends to take a completely different view from the government to which his party belongs, for example in all three cases to which I have just referred. Of course, Members on individual issues may disagree with their party or the line of government, but now Valter Mutt is not just a single Member but actually the spokesperson of his party on these issues, which means that it may be useful to clarify this. What is the Green Party's line on cooperation with NATO? Is that the government's line, is that the view that Valter Mutt has expressed in the past or is it something quite different? And what is the Green Party's line on free trade agreements such as CETA? Is that the government's line, is that the view that Valter Mutt has expressed in the past or is it something quite different?
i-83e790899e640a89-315	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the interesting questions! Now I am not Prime Minister or Foreign Minister, but I am spokesperson for the Green Party. Of course I'm putting forward our views. We have a coalition government, which compromises, as has been done in all coalition governments throughout the world since the break-in of parliamentary history. This compromise is the government's line. That is exactly how the four parties in the alliance government acted, if I have not completely misunderstood things. You sat and negotiated, and sometimes some parties had to compromise quite properly. That is the rule of democracy; a small party has to compromise more. I don't really see the problem. Of course, compromise can be painful. That is the case, but now we have a parliamentary democracy in which some basic principles prevail. Then they are the ones that apply, and of course they also apply to me as a foreign policy spokesperson for the Green Party.
i-83e790899e640a89-319	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Valter Mutt, for your answer. However, I am not sure whether it made us so much wiser. Of course you have to compromise. It is an important part of politics and part of what we are doing here. At the same time, the examples I raised are not small issues, but they are crucial, I would say, in this area. One is about security policy cooperation and defence cooperation, with regard to NATO, and the other is about the view of free trade, which is an important foundation. One gets a little confused when the Green Party has a spokesperson who has actively pursued a completely different line on all these issues. Should I interpret Valter Mutt as being entirely behind what the government is doing now, or will the Green Party allow itself to take a completely different view on NATO cooperation or free trade, for example?
i-83e790899e640a89-322	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the questions. I'm not an algorithm. I'm a living human being of flesh and blood. As you know, I was not a foreign policy spokesperson for a couple of years, and it is clear that I then submitted some individual motions, which were my personal opinions in some cases. Absolutely! So, once again, are the parliamentary rules of the game. Now I stand here and have come back as a foreign policy spokesperson, as well as a government party, and have to defend the government's line. I do not really think it is as complicated as it is sometimes done. But it is clear that I hope that one day we will become a larger party, and then things like NATO resistance will have a greater chance of strengthening. That's it.
i-83e790899e640a89-325	Mr President, I would like to It is simply to welcome Valter Mutt back to the Foreign Affairs Committee and the debates. It is clear that we are a little curious – those of us who have been in committee for some time and started dealing with some matters. Soon, in March, we will adjust, among other things, motions from Valter Mutt on the host country agreement, not only for this year but also for the last parliamentary year. The exercise that came 2017/18 is very clear. It calls for Parliament to support the motion to terminate the host country agreement with NATO and announce it to the government. I assume that Valter Mutt will clearly oppose the motion he has signed. I also assume that Valter Mutt will be in a clear position when, this spring, we will be discussing the CETA agreement with Canada on free trade. Both of those questions have had a history in the Green Party that has created a lot of question marks about where you really stand. I'm asking for clarity. Are you saying no to your moves, Valter Mutt?
i-83e790899e640a89-330	Madam President, I would like I'm so glad you're curious about me. The motion that Kerstin Lundgren refers to I wrote when I was not a foreign policy spokesperson. It is common to write individual exercises. At the risk of appearing as a dry ball, I will repeat that I am now a foreign policy spokesperson for the Green Party, which is a government party, and that is where the government line is standing. It's the one that's negotiated. Then it is clear that it is right as Kerstin Lundgren says. There is a green criticism of parts of the FTAs and their structure, and the CETA agreement is one of them. In the European Parliament, the Green Group has been critical. It is thought that it gives too much power to big business and that democracy is being sidelined. It's a concern that I feel. But that does not mean that I can stand here and upset parliamentary principles. The proposals put forward by the government I have to stand behind as a spokesperson, that's it. We stand behind trade as an instrument of peace, absolutely. On the other hand, free trade agreements can be designed in different ways. It's not an eternity deal. It is clear that we must be able to hold a debate. Are the agreements optimal with regard to consumers, the environment and so on? There can be no ban on debate about it. But as a spokesperson, you have to stand behind the proposals the government puts forward, that's it.
i-83e790899e640a89-333	Madam President, I would like I don't see just one piece of wood. I see a lot of people. It's a whole book of bracks. I look forward to hearing the enthusiasm that Valter Mutt will express from the speaker's seat when he stands up to reject his own motion on the host country agreement. There will be an exciting discussion here this spring.
i-83e790899e640a89-334	Madam President, I would like I thank you for this warm welcome back to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and I also look forward to more exciting discussions.
i-83e790899e640a89-335	Madam President, I would like This year, over 65 million people are on the run around the world. The UN estimates that over 128 million people are in need of humanitarian aid, which is the highest figure ever. The need for assistance far exceeds donor countries' payments. The world's eight richest people own as much as the poorest half of the world's population, and the difference continues to increase. For every aid crown that goes from the rich world to the poor, over SEK 9 goes in the opposite direction in the form of tax and capital flight. We know that the government takes this seriously. But Sweden can do much more. It is 80% of those who are on the run who are in poor countries. At the same time, the rich part of the world is doing everything to keep refugees away. Among other things, the EU is concluding agreements with poor countries to keep people outside its borders. When distress is greatest, the richest continent in the world chooses to duck its responsibility for people on the run. Since autumn 2015, the EU has been working intensively to conclude pacts with a number of countries in Africa and the Middle East to prevent refugees from coming to Europe. The pacts, which contain promises of aid and trade agreements, are in exchange for controls on migration. The EU has also paid a trust fund of around EUR 3.1 billion to finance efforts to halt migration from African countries.
i-83e790899e640a89-340	Madam President, I would like That was a lot of big questions. I share much of what Yasmine Posio Nilsson said at the outset about the enormous concentration of economic power and its consequences on all kinds of levels. More environmental fighters are being murdered around the developing world than in many years. In the area of migration policy, we have things that are deeply inhumane. Now it is not the case that we Greens are in any majority position either in the majority of national parliaments or in the European Parliament. Unfortunately, we have a rather small potential for influence. But with other humanitarian forces, we want to change the situation that Yasmine so graphically describes. It's horrifying. It is only to be hoped that the brown winds that have been blowing so long over Europe are changing and that we can have an impact on a completely different policy. Then we will also be able to remedy some of what Yasmine Posio Nilsson is talking about here.
i-83e790899e640a89-343	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Valter Mutt, for your answer. I can still feel that more is needed. We can go back to last summer, 2017. At that time, the EU increased support to the Libyan Coast Guard by EUR 46 million. It is money that is being passed on from one of the EU's aid funds. This is done despite the situation in Libya and the knowledge of the abuses perpetrated by the same coastguard. Amnesty, Human Rights Watch and the UN have been reporting for some time about violations and gross abuses committed by militias in Libya. It is clear that human rights weigh lightly against the ambition to stop refugees from coming to Europe. We have been able to read that women are the most vulnerable in reports of sexual abuse. Women who run that way take the pill to at least be able to protect themselves from pregnancy when they are raped. Is support for Libya aimed at keeping the borders of Valter Mutt a feminist foreign policy?
i-83e790899e640a89-346	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Yasmine Posio Nilsson, for raising these questions! These are things that we are deeply alien to. Our Members of the European Parliament are doing what they can to change that. We need to have a completely different relationship with our close world, the MENA area and the African continent. Ultimately, it is about finally getting progress on fair trade agreements. There, the government is giving large sums of money to the UN's Green Fund and to many other things that make people not need to flee. It's a fundamental thing. We must also combat and completely change the kind of so-called border protection that the EU is engaged in. It's important.
i-83e790899e640a89-350	Madam President, I would like I should also like to take this opportunity to welcome Valter Mutt back to committee. I'm afraid we're going overboard now that I quit. Just your statement in this House: I am not an algorithm, shows that there will be great tension in the debate ahead. I also appreciate that you are a very green and principled environmental party that makes you recognize the Green Party. We also need more outspoken Members of this House and not less. Now you are in the red-green government which, either on its own or by seeking support here in Parliament, is to take a stand for a cooperation agreement with the Communist dictatorship of Cuba. I understand, of course, that the press can be very large as many countries have already said yes to this cooperation and await how Sweden will act. I would like to take this opportunity to try a little to recapitulate the EU's relations with Cuba. We know that in 2003 diplomatic relations were completely strangled. It was after the Cuban authorities had imprisoned 75 critics of the regime. We have also seen how some EU countries have been moving towards cooperation in different ways over the years. But we also see how many people are involved in civil society and in the democratic political opposition are very concerned about the agreement and cooperation. The Cuban Commission on Human Rights and National Reconciliation shows that the number of political prisoners has doubled between 2015 and 2017. We know that the process when the agreement has been drawn up has been very cloudy. Not least, the Cuban democracy movement has not been allowed to give its views. The process has also been closed for independent journalists and others.
i-83e790899e640a89-355	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Birgitta Ohlsson, for the welcome! I feel honored by it. As I said, independent Members of this House are needed; that is always a good thing. This also applies to Birgitta Ohlsson. This is an important issue. Of course, I feel the same disgust as Birgitta Ohlsson for what she describes. We must not forget that Cuba is a dictatorship. But then the question is how dictatorships are combated. Nevertheless, I believe that openings and cooperation will also, in the long term, undermine repressive structures and that they will do so in Cuba as well. Countries that are very closed – North Korea is the classic example, and for that matter Eritrea and some others – are often the worst dictatorships. Closeness somehow merges with repressive structures. I am therefore not so sure that the wisest way is to have no kind of cooperation agreement. But it is clear that the agreements must be designed in a sensible way. The fact that civil society in Cuba has not been involved and so on is a big mistake.
i-83e790899e640a89-358	Madam President, I would like I hear what Valter Mutt of the Green Party says about transparency and cooperation that can bring the European Union and Cuba closer together. But there are also great fears, not least from those who oppose this compact Communist dictatorship, that it will be legitimised and that it will be difficult to break an agreement that has been concluded, even if it is technically possible to do so. One feels that the kind of thawing and opening that one had expected after Fidel Castros's death has not really occurred. We see that the number of political prisoners has increased and how, for example, the Women in White Group, which protested every Sunday, lives under extremely severe repression right now. This applies to many parts of civil society in the country. I just want to highlight these concerns, which I know several other opposition parties share. You have to be careful. We should not allow another dictator to remain in office.
i-83e790899e640a89-362	Madam President, I would like In fact, I can only agree with what Birgitta Ohlsson says in a long way. Of course, we must follow this very closely. Nevertheless, the hope is somewhere that we will have a more profound shift towards democracy when there is a generational shift with Raúl Castro, who has been close to Fidel Castro – they are even brothers. We want that hope and we want somewhere to believe that the cooperation agreement can become part of this. I share the vision in what Birgitta Ohlsson points out and thinks it is valuable. We must not forget this and the heavy parameters. If the number of prisoners increases, it is a development in the completely wrong direction.
i-83e790899e640a89-364	Madam President, I would like There are many of us who want to ask Valter Mutt questions today. It's always interesting to listen to him. He is reasoning and speaks without thinking about how well what he says is suitable for a tweet or a shared picture from the Communications Department of the Environmental Party. It is in its own way liberating. But security policy and foreign policy are also serious, and the Green Party is a government party. As we have highlighted here in the past, the Red-Green Government has shown during its term of office that it can have two views on one issue at the same time. They are often as different as red and green. When Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist gave the green light to the host country agreement signed with NATO, it was enough to go to Valter Mutt to turn it into a red light. We're people, we're politicians. We're not robots. But in a debate article in Aftonbladet Valter Mutt warns that NATO could place nuclear weapons on Swedish territory, something that Peter Hultqvist answers by saying: Not a gun enters Swedish territory without an invitation from the Swedish government. Then we still have to ask ourselves where the Green Party stands when it comes to its view of NATO cooperation.
i-83e790899e640a89-368	Madam President, I would like The most important thing for us is that Sweden does not become a member of NATO. There is no difference between the two government parties; we are clear about that. We believe that Swedish membership of NATO would increase tensions in the Baltic Sea region. This would put us in a classic security dilemma where you do something to increase your security but where it is actually decreasing. That is the important thing: we are opposed to a Swedish NATO membership. I look forward to an election movement where we get to the bottom of this. This is particularly true now, with the head of state in the United States – the tenant of the White House – who is the head of state in the totally dominant country of the 28 NATO countries. After all, we also have Erdo中an in Turkey. I feel safe in my NATO resistance. As I have said here before, we stand as a government party behind the policy of the government. This also applies, of course, to defence cooperation. That's it.
i-83e790899e640a89-371	Madam President, I would like I am also looking forward to a forthcoming debate. I feel secure in my NATO support, so there will be exciting debates. We are talking about important decisions concerning Swedish security policy with regard to the host country agreement with NATO or with regard to the defence exercise Aurora, which we had here recently and which Valter Mutt was against. I am also interested in the view of the UN and the search for a seat on the UN Security Council. I did not hear Valter Mutt mention so much about it in his speech. What have been the major reasons why the Green Party has wanted Sweden to have this place, and what have they been prepared to forego along the way?
i-83e790899e640a89-373	Madam President, I would like The United Nations is the only world organization we have that truly embraces all countries. I think it was a great success that Sweden came in, and we will even have the presidency in July. Sweden has taken a number of interesting initiatives. We have brought civil society into the Security Council processes in a completely different way, and we have highlighted the position of women in resolutions and statements. We see that when women join peace processes, there is a significant increase in the likelihood that the processes will also be permanent. I'm proud of the Security Council site. It also gives us an opportunity to get involved in the work on the reform of the UN, which of course is needed. I look forward to further work.
i-83e790899e640a89-375	Madam President, I would like Four years ago, the dream of freedom, peace and reconciliation lived on our continent. But in the middle of the Sochi Olympic Games Ukrainians were shot at Majdan and the president fled to Russia. We then saw the green men at Crimea and the rapid annexation. Ukraine is being fought with Russian presence and support since 2014. They are denied by Russia the right to control their territory in the same way as Georgia is denied the right to its territory by Russia since the Olympic Games in Beijing in 2008. May we hope that the Pyeongchang Olympic Games will be the Olympic Games of peace, the beginning of a nuclear-free Korean peninsula. North Korea is today another state with nuclear weapons – a dictatorship, a repressive state that is starving its people, threatening to use nuclear weapons and threatening its neighbours with recurring missiles. It is not changed either by a joint Korean force in the Olympics or by Margot Wallström's commitment to conducting a critical disarmament policy in the Korean Peninsula in 2015. Nor is this changed by the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Swedish Government voted in favour of a nuclear ban convention. Madam President, I would like The Center Party wants to promote a world free from nuclear weapons. We want to promote balanced disarmament, for the NPT and for the Test Ban Treaty. The government has put all its energy on a symbolic ban on nuclear weapons while Russia has made nuclear weapons part of a conventional military conflict. It is a signal that others are now following. There is a risk that the NPT agreement, the only global regime we have, will be threatened. A protest convention does not change either Putin or Jong Un, and a world under their nuclear regime would be devastating for all of us. Sweden should not risk either the NPT agreement or Swedish security. The protest convention should not be signed in violation of our Nordic neighbours and our close partners. Madam President, I would like With Mrs Wallström's last foreign declaration, we can sum up a term of office characterised by unilateral events followed by silence. The independent voice was lifted and has argued that military alliance freedom has served not only historically but, in fact, is also serving us well today. Possibly it serves a divided government well but not Swedish security. Looking at the security situation, two investigations have reported the risks of alliance freedom in our Baltic Sea region. Perhaps the independent voice also served the government well in the campaign for the seat of the Security Council, but it does not serve security and security in our part of the world. The EU welcomed a Russia that wanted to promote the democratic, liberal values on which Western Europe was built. Today we know that Russia acted as a Trojan horse and that they want to break up our common order. Putin has deployed his military to achieve his goals and is ready to do so again. Sweden and our EU neighbours are therefore strengthening the defence. The government wants to be independent and expects solidarity from our neighbours but does not want to receive or provide any guarantees. Alone is not strong, that teaches us history. On the day Putin threatens Sweden to get what he wants, independence is not much worth. The Center Party rejects the adaptation of Swedish foreign policy to Russian interests. The Center Party therefore wants Sweden to become a member of NATO as soon as possible, preferably together with Finland. Sweden should not be a grey area between NATO friends and Russia. Together, we will build security aimed at deterring both threats and military attacks. Madam President, I would like We are summarising four years of feminist foreign policy in Mrs Wallström's bottling. At a time affected by the me-too debate, it is important that women speak and that silences are broken. It is important to see patterns but also to realize that we women are individuals and different. The government's feminist policy is not liberal. It is characterized by the image of women as a collective and by nature pacifists. A liberal feminist policy does not silence when authoritarian regimes oppress women simply because they want a seat on the UN Security Council. A liberal feminist foreign policy is not independent but builds alliances to give women, men and their power over their own life choices and societies. A liberal feminist foreign policy builds alliances when repressive regimes imprison dissidents, strangle free speech, strike LGBT people and shut down democracy. Sweden must stand up with like-minded people for democracy, human rights, free media, independent justice and international law. Europe is crucial to upholding our values and is our most important arena whose global voice must be strengthened. Madam President, I would like Every minute, 20 people are driven into flight as a result of conflict and persecution. Humanitarian disasters are growing. Syria, Yemen, Myanmar, Sudan, Libya, Venezuela and North Korea are names associated with hopelessness for so many people. 65 million people on the run are suffering horrendously, but the situation also poses a threat to the security of the countries in the immediate environment that are the countries that receive the most refugees. The EU must take its share of responsibility to support, but also to relieve, the burden. You have to take your share of the responsibility to offer a sanctuary. Conflicts and repression must be brought to an end and accountable for crimes against humanity. Syria is now about the eighth year of war with many involved. It is also a war against Daish in the region. The fight against Daish in which Sweden participates has been successful but is not over until an inclusive peace has been concluded with a process of freedom and reconciliation in Syria. The last few weeks show the risk of conflicts escalating in the region. Turkey's attacks and abuse of the Kurds in Syria must be condemned and brought to an end. At the same time, all actors in the region must refrain from taking measures that risk escalating and widening the conflict to more countries. Madam President, I would like The Center Party wants to give Sweden a new leadership and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs a new leadership – a leadership that stands up for openness, free trade and international cooperation while equipping ourselves to face anxiety and uncertainty in our surrounding world. We want a Sweden with a clear security policy that builds alliances against populism and nationalism for a freer and greener world.
i-83e790899e640a89-392	Madam President, I would like Did anyone hear any concrete suggestions on how to get there? Did anyone hear a single proposal other than NATO membership as a solution to all these issues? During this time, when we are actually sitting on the UN Security Council, where all these major conflicts are being discussed and where we are looking for solutions together with others, the opposition has not received a single proposal on how to act, on what issues to put forward or on how to work internationally. Not a single proposal has come. The truth is, unfortunately, also, Kerstin Lundgren, that the voice that used to be quite strong from the Center Party on nuclear issues would be silent if you were to include Sweden in NATO – which I do not think you would get, because I think the Swedish people are wise enough to see that right now is definitely not a time to approach or seek membership of NATO. Now we shall stand by our security policy doctrine. We will continue our cooperation. We will continue to ensure that we prevent war and conflict. You became silent in the Center Party when you decided that NATO membership was the overall interest. It is not true that we have not engaged ourselves. On the contrary, we have a broad commitment to the nuclear issue. We're working for the NPT conference. We're in risk reduction. We are working on all these tracks to take on this which is the most serious threat to our security in the world.
i-83e790899e640a89-396	Madam President, I would like When the Foreign Minister began her first foreign policy declaration, she said: Sweden is not in any military alliance. And that's right. We agreed on this. But since then, with the support of the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats, the government has changed its feet. For now our military freedom of alliance serves us well. Have the two investigations that have come to the Secretary of State just ended up in the drawer? Has the Foreign Minister taken note of them and thought about what they say? Has she considered that the Baltic Sea region is now a risk environment and that our independence is part of the risks created? The Security Council cannot help there. We know how Russia acts. Does Mrs Wallström believe that the Security Council would adopt a resolution saying that Russia has now crossed the border? No, that would be a veto. The Foreign Minister should listen to more than just NATO. The minister uses only one hammer, be it. The Secretary of State only hears NATO. But hear security! The Minister should also consider what measures she wants to offer the Swedish people. There is an expectation that others will help, but there is no guarantee that they will. Why not, Secretary of State?
i-83e790899e640a89-401	Madam President and Kerstin Lundgren! What happened after that first foreign declaration was that Trump was elected President of the United States. Of course, it changed the situation in NATO, and it very much changed the world situation. Then there is the development in Turkey. This has led to a rather difficult discussion in NATO at the moment. How do you handle the situation? For a while, it was also uncertain whether there were in fact any guarantees of assistance from NATO. Military alliance freedom continues to serve us well. We would not be safer if we suddenly announced that we are changing hands and want to become a NATO member. I believe that the way forward is based on cooperation, that we continue to act in support of Ukraine and that we are firm in principle towards Russia. This is how we become safer in Sweden and in the world.
i-83e790899e640a89-404	Madam President, I would like It is still a little strange if the Swedish Government and the Swedish Foreign Minister change the foreign policy stance based on the fact that the USA elects Trump as President and not on the basis that it is Mr Putin who is sitting in the Kremlin. He has shown that he is prepared to change Europe's borders by military means and to tear up the rules agreed after the Second World War. He also threatens other countries. Ukraine and Georgia are two countries wishing they were members of NATO. Then they'd feel safe. This would not be strong alone, but would create security and security together. Then Putin would not be able to beat just one, but he would have to challenge everyone if he wanted to go on the warpath. That's what we're gonna stop.
i-83e790899e640a89-406	Madam President, I would like I will continue with the NATO issue. Donald Trump is the head of state of the most powerful member of NATO. And Erdo has committed crimes against international law with attacks inside a neighbouring country. Does it not at all affect the enthusiasm of the Center Party with regard to NATO, Kerstin Lundgren?
i-83e790899e640a89-408	Madam President, I would like The studies that have come show the security situation in the Baltic Sea region and the need to close the security policy vacuum that exists as a result of Sweden and Finland not being members of NATO. As members, we could bring clarity to relations in this region. It could also have a more restraining effect on our large Russian neighbour. It is the thrill of them to listen to the Green Party but of course also to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The main focus seems to be on what is happening in the United States. I don't think Valter Mutt thinks that the resident Trump would threaten Sweden. What threatens Sweden and the Baltic Sea region is a possible action from Putin to get his way. It does not have to be military action. It may also be by other means, for example, that he calls the Foreign Minister and says: ..................................................... This is the reality that Sweden must face. Then Valter Mutt and the government say: Well, we are so afraid of Trump. But we would like to have a close cooperation and preferably a unique agreement with Trump. But we do not want the others in NATO. We do not want our European neighbours. We don't want Norway. Woe and fear for Norway! I don't understand what the Green Party and the government are afraid of.
i-83e790899e640a89-413	Madam President, I would like Not a single NATO country voted in favour of the new UN Nuclear Weapons Convention. It surely shows that you lose some of your foreign policy space. Anyone following the American debate, for example, can see that they are concerned about the armaments industrial complex. It was a Republican president, Eisenhower, who coined the very expression of the military industrial complex. You're supposed to be spending $1,200 billion over the next 30 years upgrading your nuclear weapons. Of course there is a self-interest in armaments. Leading American politicians warn against that. We think it would be negative if Sweden became part of those contexts. We want to fight for disarmament in the world, and that is best done by standing outside the military alliances.
i-83e790899e640a89-417	Madam President, I would like We will be outside NATO, Valter Mutt, but it is good to cooperate in private with President Trump, regardless of the discussion on military industrial complexes or other. We want to see another kind of world. But the big problem in our part of the world-- we're not talking about China right now-- is Russia and Russia's actions. It is strange to me that both the Left Party and the government are talking horrifiedly about President Trump but totally misses that President Putin poses a threat to our environment, to our neighbours. We are now equipping ourselves together to face that threat. That's a threat the government doesn't seem to see. Instead, you stare blind at President Trump, Valter Mutt.
i-83e790899e640a89-420	Madam President, I would like The Left Party wants a world for everyone, not just for the richest. We believe in a world where children grow up with the same conditions and where all people have power over their own lives, no matter where on earth you happen to be born. Of course, as fellow humans, we should be delighted that an increasing proportion of people around the world are literate, that more children survive their first years and that many diseases, such as measles, and their mortality have decreased. We should be able to feel that it is still possible to change and that we do not have to accept the unfair and unequal world order that exists both within and between countries. Sweden should be a country that continues to support civil organisations and governments that fight for democracy and human rights with confidence. We will pursue a foreign and development policy where people themselves are seen as subjects in their own lives, and we will strive to achieve all the goals of Agenda 2030. Similarly, we must dare to criticise and act when countries do not do so. On the contrary, when countries oppress the population and reduce the scope for international law, Sweden should stand up for all the people affected when power becomes more important than democracy. The Left Party has high hopes for the present government's feminist foreign policy. When Trumps USA presents its gag rule, Sida, with support in the feminist development policy, responds to strengthening the SRHR in its work. When trade agreements are to be developed in the EU, Sweden is pressing for human rights and for the situation of girls and women to be written into the texts. When Sweden sends troops to UN-led operations, the troops work both internally and externally to increase women's influence and participation. This work is necessary if we are to achieve any goals in Agenda 2030 at all. At the same time, we from the Left Party have been clear about criticising when the government's policy is lacking. Unfortunately, the government's foreign policy has at times been characterised by incapacity and dual messages. One hand gives at the same time as the other hand takes. The inclusion of human rights issues as important points to follow in trade agreements is a good thing. It would be even better to follow up on human rights and allow abuses to become grounds for sanctions and strong action. We have not yet seen this happening with clarity towards some of the countries with shortcomings with which Sweden is trading. One of perhaps the most obvious examples of the government's double standards is Yemen. The conflict in Yemen rarely fills the news pages, but Yemen is one of the world's poorest countries, and after three years of war the situation is acute. The UN refers to the situation as the world's largest humanitarian crisis. Millions of people are on the run, the lack of food and water is great and the country is plagued by large outbreaks of cholera and diphtheria. Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström has made it clear that there is no military solution to the conflict, and last year Sweden's aid to Yemen increased. That's good. At the same time, Sweden continues to export arms to both the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia – countries that actively participate in the war. As late as 2016, arms exports to the United Arab Emirates were granted for nearly SEK 11 billion. That's mildly said less well. In December, the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs took a decision to stop arms exports to the United Arab Emirates, and exports to Saudi Arabia are no longer allowed. It is time that Sweden did the same. It is not good enough, as the government, to put forward an inadequate proposal to marginally make arms exports to dictatorships more difficult. Such exports shall under no circumstances be possible. We in the Left Party have repeatedly expressed our support for all the people who are fighting against President Erdo and increasingly totalitarian leadership in Turkey. Unfortunately, the situation has worsened further. Turkey has for a long time been moving towards an increasingly authoritarian regime. The prisons of oppositionists, journalists and Kurds have had to go on without sufficient force from the outside world. Instead of marking against Turkey, Sweden has, through various trade agreements and contributions from the EU to stop refugees, given its silent support. Now we see the result that Sweden and the EU have not acted vigorously enough. Turkey has not only continued to silence the opposition by closing the media, dismissing public employees and imprisoning politicians. Now it has gone so far as to launch a military offensive in another country and attack Afrin and other parts of northern Syria. Those who have defeated IS/ Daish with great victims and are now preparing for free elections are under attack. What's the outside world doing? The Swedish Government should vehemently condemn the attacks and act in the EU to tear up the agreement to provide assistance to Turkey to stop refugees. Madam President, I would like To be able to control one's own body and express one's own sexuality is a fundamental human right. But it is a right that is violated and violated in many countries that Sweden conducts development cooperation with. Lack of access to contraception and sex education, lack of maternal care and strong restrictions on abortion law are key obstacles to development and poverty reduction. We see with concern how women's rights are being excluded in an increasing number of countries around the world. In El Salvador, women who have had miscarriages are imprisoned, in Poland, restrictions on abortion rights are proposed and, at the same time, the US has tightened its development policy in order to make access to safe abortions more difficult for women. As far as the right-wing forces in Europe and the rest of the world are concerned, the rights of women and LGBTQ people are excluded. Sweden has long been an important voice for sexual and reproductive health and rights, but we can and should do more. Therefore, we demand that at least 10 per cent of Sweden's aid budget should go to SRHR. For the Left Party, it is important that Sweden should be a country that consistently stands up for human rights, solidarity and feminism. There is much in Swedish development policy that has improved considerably since the turn of the government in 2014: the update of Sweden's policy for global development, the connection with Agenda 2030 and more are good proposals that the Left Party has previously exercised in parliament. The recognition of Palestine was good, and now we are waiting for the government to follow Parliament's decision to recognise Western Sahara. The Left Party wants a world for everyone – not just for the richest. People in poor countries are forced to work under slave-like conditions in order for some Swedes to buy a new mobile phone every year. Today, eight people own as much as half the world's population. Today, people in the poor part of the world are the victims of droughts, floods and other natural disasters as a result of the fact that here in the rich part of the world we are consuming too much of the earth's resources. Worst of all are the millionaires and billionaires who without devoting a thought to the environment take the flight for a ski trip to Sankt Anton and for a shopping weekend in New York. This unequal world order wants and can change.
i-83e790899e640a89-438	Madam President, I would like In recent years, the number of acts of terrorism has increased sharply. The list of countries and cities affected is long and now unfortunately includes Sweden as well. Terrorism poses a major threat to both states and individuals and ultimately also to the values upon which our society is founded. The fight against terrorism must therefore be pursued on several fronts on the ground, but also against the members and sympathizers of other parts of the world. The focus of this debate is on the tools and instruments that can be used to address these issues in the foreign policy arena. Unfortunately, I see that the Left Party lacks politics in this area. For example, the Left Party did not agree with the agreement on counter-terrorism that was reached this summer. The party has also reserved for a series of decisions aimed at stopping terrorism. In the Left Party's foreign policy programme, there are no proposals for action. Otherwise, the main focus is on the importance of prevention. This is in itself both good and important, but it is more about solving the issues in the longer term. D does not solve the more urgent issue here and now in order to stop and punish the terrorists. My question to the Left Party is: how, where and by what means do you think terrorism should be combated?
i-83e790899e640a89-443	Madam President, I would like Like Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler, I am also new in these contexts. Unfortunately, I have no idea what you have said about the proposal that has been put forward, so I cannot answer that question directly. However, it is self-evident that terrorism should be combated and that terrorists should be judged. We are also working for this in Sweden, for example when it comes to returnees or even terrorists who have sought refuge in Sweden. Then we have actively worked to ensure that they are, of course, punished according to the law. Otherwise, we believe that an open society is a society where everyone has the opportunity to grow from the individuals they are, not from the economic conditions of their parents. It reduces the availability of those who want to join a terrorist organisation. That is what we can do here in Sweden. There are right-wing terrorists here who have committed crimes, for example in Gothenburg. As far as the outside world is concerned, it is, as we say, very important that we stand up for those countries that want democracy and that we work for those civil organisations that want to grow and grow and that are working for democratic rights in their countries. There it is important that we give support, not that we give trade agreements that allow terrorism to grow in silence.
i-83e790899e640a89-447	Madam President, I would like It is well-lawed, I think, that there is talk of preventive work and efforts for democracy and other things. I agree that it is important in the long term to resolve this or at least to reduce the risk of recruitment to various terrorist movements. First of all, however, I do not believe that such work guarantees that it is actually successful. Secondly, successful work of this kind can hardly guarantee a 100% guarantee that terrorists will not recruit again at all. Thirdly, we must be able to act to stop the problems that exist here and now. Then we are back at what I think is the lack of the Left Party. Yasmine Posio Nilsson, I suppose you'll see this as a contribution. I hope the Left Party can take this along with it. Once again, I note that you did not agree with the agreement on counter-terrorism last summer. I very much hope that the Left Party can give priority to these issues and take them a little more seriously in the future.
i-83e790899e640a89-449	Madam President, I would like I was not present in person, and so I cannot give precise answers to that question and must come back to it. But, of course, I lean against my fellow party members. I have full confidence that they made the right decision when they chose not to agree to that agreement. What I missed doing in our last line change was asking you, Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler, what you intend to do and what solutions you want to see. Then there could have been a little more exchange of views and more to answer. As I said, however, we will have to discuss this at a later date.
i-83e790899e640a89-451	Madam President, I would like In the early 2000s the Swedish left got a new example in Latin America, Hugo Chávez. As then president of Venezuela, he benefited from the high oil price. While many of the poor got better, the regime began to attack the media. No matter what methods Chávez used, he came to receive support from the Swedish left. For example, when Maduro took power, Sjöstedt was quick to congratulate him on Twitter, despite the fact that Maduro, as Foreign Minister, had started tying up with countries such as Belarus, Iran and Libya. As late as the end of last year, the Left Party Group in the European Parliament boycotted the award of the Sakharov Prize to the Venezuelan opposition. In a totally bizarre resolution in the European Parliament, the Left's group does not address a single critical word against the crimes of the regime, while condemning the EU's sanctions against the country. I would like to remind the Left Party that the new sanctions are aimed at people close to Maduro who contribute to the political crisis and the repression of the population. The list includes the Head of Intelligence, Gustavo González, who is responsible for serious violations of human rights, inhuman and degrading treatment, torture and repression of civil society and the democratic opposition in Venezuela. Does the Left Party not support the sanctions imposed on the regime? The Left Party stands very often in this House and claims to want to see a consistent foreign policy. But how does the Left's actions in Sweden and in Brussels go together with standing up for human rights and freedoms, wherever they are oppressed?
i-83e790899e640a89-455	Madam President, I would like The Left Party has for a long time criticised what should be criticised for Venezuela. Democratic restrictions are never acceptable, no matter who carries them out and where in the world they take place. Our position has been highlighted both in the media and in sports. During the last general exercise, we aroused a motion about Latin America. There, too, Christian Democrats can read about our position on the situation in Venezuela. This is why we stand up for the rights of the Venezuelans to express their views, to participate in demonstrations and to elect their leaders in democratic elections. We are safeguarding the possibility for all Venezuelans to have access to health care and education and to live a life free from hunger, poverty and discrimination. This starting point leads us to never compromise on human rights. For us, it is obvious to criticise every crime regardless of where, by whom or with what motives it is committed. In our motion in the same motion, it is stated that as an individual country as well as a member of the EU and the UN, Sweden should work towards dialogue between the government and the opposition in Venezuela in order to facilitate a peaceful and democratic solution to today's political contradictions. This exercise is you, Sofia Damm, warmly welcome to support you. With regard to the Sakharov Prize, we had advocated Dawit Isaak as the winner. That is why we did not support this.
i-83e790899e640a89-458	Madam President, I would like I appreciate Yasmine Posio Nilsson being prepared to answer the question. However, it is not enough to stand in this Chamber and say those words. When you have an opportunity to show this in reality, you also have to stand up. I mean, literally stand up. What happened in the European Parliament was that the Left Party could not stand up and applaud when the opposition from Venezuela would receive the prize. We had also voted for Dawit Isaak on the Christian Democratic side. That does not mean that we cannot congratulate and feel with the opposition in Venezuela and stand up for their rights. The situation in Venezuela is disgusting. I hope that what you have said in this House, Yasmine Posio Nilsson, is something you will also be able to highlight in the European Parliament and so that it is heard around the world and reached out to your party friends.
i-83e790899e640a89-460	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Sofia, for choosing that particular question, for which I had actually prepared myself! It is a little scary to be in this debate the first time. As you say, we will continue to stand up for the venez ulan rights to democratic and free elections and for all minorities, including the opposition, to have the same rights and obligations as everyone else. We will continue to make claims as long as we do not see sufficient democratic development in Venezuela.
i-83e790899e640a89-462	Madam President, I would like The other day, when I cleaned out a box in my parliamentary room, I found parts of a notebook from autumn 2002, when I was 27 years old as a new Member of Parliament on the Foreign Affairs Committee. The wrath over people's freedom – which was the slogan of freedom for the Liberal Youth League, for which I was still President of the Union – it was as a headline, written with an angry neon pink overlay pen. As I now, 16 years later, participate in my last parliamentary debate in this House, I undoubtedly reflect a little on the world that existed before, during and after 2002 and the world we live in 2018. I reflect on what was, what could have been, and what was never allowed to be. In 2002, the surges of Islamic terror against the World Trade Center in New York and the ensuing war on terror marked a whole world. In 2002, European cooperation became physical when euro notes and coins began to circulate in European wallets. Only two years later, the EU would go from 15 to 25 members, with Eastern and Central Europe leaving communism, socialism and the yoke of the planned economy for democracy and a market economy. In 2002 the then Foreign Minister Anna Lindh gave me good advice for my first trip to Somaliland. Ten months later, she was gone. As the good girl I was, in my notebook, I had stuck up various foreign policy scenarios with a look ahead for a decade. I can now say that I was both right and wrong. A global free trade agreement would be in place. Wrong. The Doha Round has been going on since 2001, but it is now, 17 years later, regional agreements that dominate and not the worldwide free trade that could lift even more millions of people out of poverty. Two thirds of Africa's countries would be democracies. Wrong. This is clearly illustrated by the fact that mobile phone billionaire Mo Ibrahim was not able to award his democracy prize to African leaders for a long time. There was actually until this year, Liberia's former President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf received the prize, no worthy winner to appoint for the entire six years. The European Union would have been huge, according to my vision, and the countries would be spotless democracies. Right and wrong. Of course, ten new members came, but the Western Balkans are trampling in the wind in anticipation of domestic reforms. According to The Economist's latest democracy index, only 11 of the 28 current EU countries are considered full-fledged democracies. None of these countries are in Eastern or Central Europe. I thought Russia would have drawn closer to Europe. Total error. Putin has militarily attacked Ukraine and waged a constant war against the freedom of his own population, against LGBTQ people, independent journalists and the opposition. In China, oppression is just as compact. In 2002, 41 percent of the world's population lived in free countries. Today, the figure is 39%. Democracy backs for the twelfth year in a row. In 2001, 40 percent of the world's countries had full freedom of the press. Today it is only 31%, and in these, 13% of the world's population lives. Since the year 2000, the number of refugees in the world has almost doubled. The disgusting war in Syria with military dictator Asad, gassing his own population to death, the Islamic terrorists in Daish and the genocide-like attacks against the Rohingy aminora in Burma create new victims. Four countries on the rise in 2002, economically or politically, were Turkey, Venezuela, Hungary and Poland. Now they're all regional black sheep. Turkey has turned its back on the EU and is bombing civilians in Kurdish-controlled Afrin. The left dictatorship in Venezuela has turned South America's richest country into a oppressive hell where children die of starvation and large parts of the population have already fled. Poland and Hungary are EU countries whose pressure is no longer considered free and where the independence of courts is threatened. But it really wasn't better before. Over the past few years, extreme poverty in the world has halved globally. In 2002, a country in the world had introduced same - sex marriages, namely the Netherlands. Today, there are 24 countries and not just in the Western world. Between 2000 and 2015, malaria deaths decreased by nearly 60 percent. In 2000, 414 million people had access to the Internet. Now it's almost 4 billion. All of this requires curiosity about globalisation, value-driven foreign policy, liberal freedom and a principled defence of human rights. But it also presupposes – and this applies to all of us here in this House – a battle for multilateralism, the idea of cooperation and interdependence between countries that grew so strong after the Second World War and which is the basis for everything from the WTO and the UN to NATO and the EU. Global challenges require global solutions. It is therefore self-evident to me as a liberal that Sweden belongs in both NATO and the UN. Multilateralism and idealist foreign policy – to care about values beyond the borders of one's country – are more threatened than for a long time in the wake of populist apologists and the cry of isolationists to break collaborations. But it should also be remembered that the climate agreement in Paris was absolutely fantastic, and the 17 new sustainable goals go further in terms of human rights than we have ever gone before. This is important to see. I would like to take this last opportunity to thank both the alliance colleagues for good political community and the whole committee for a very nice atmosphere, not least through the good offices of Director Martin Brothén. I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for his good cooperation on many political issues, not least those relating to the human rights of girls and women, such as the fight for the right to free, legal and safe abortions and more women with power being put at the negotiating table when the war is over. Madam President, I would like It wasn't better before. 2018 is better than 2002. Fewer are poor. More are trained. But the victories we thought were won in 2002 were not. But the battles are not lost forever. Victories are possible to regain through support for the world's democrats, such as the courageous Iranian activist Narges Hosseini, who protested against the veil of the mullahs during the January liberation protests by throwing his shawl. She refuses to apologize and is now risking ten years in prison. Another example is the organisation Women in White in Cuba, which has protested every Sunday for many years against the oppression of the Communist dictatorship. Another is the Swedish-eritrean journalist Dawit Isaak, who has been imprisoned for more than 16 years without trial today. To conclude, let me quote another of Astrid Lindgren's characters, Pippi Långstrump : I hope it won't be.
i-83e790899e640a89-484	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Birgitta Ohlsson! What a fine exposé you made. Actually, I don't see anything in it that I would object to. I think it was an exciting description, sad as it is, of all the problems that remain and of the few hopeful decisions that have yet to be made. I think you're right about one thing. To be conciliatory now at our last meeting and not seek battle and confrontation, I would like to say that I am constantly saying that we must defend multilateralism, free trade, dialogue, cooperation and all the methods that we often see represented by women. I met Syrian women the other day, and then it turned out that they are busy with what is the reality on the ground in Syria: How do we get electricity for another hour? How do we get water? Can we get some medicine for our sick children? But the big proxy players play their strategic game with Syria as an effort. This difference is important when it comes to working for women's rights and for equality and equality in the world. I want to say that I value your commitment very much. I have been doing it all along, not least with regard to women's rights. I have always appreciated debating with you, and I wish you every success in the future. There is a need for more politicians like you, who safeguard both a good climate for debate and objective arguments. Good luck with everything you're gonna do, Birgitta!
i-83e790899e640a89-488	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your warm words. I would really like to take this opportunity to highlight precisely the issue of multilateralism, which we may not be discussing very much in this House, because it is quite self-evident and given to the majority of the parties here. Multilateralism, however, is under threat. I had the privilege of visiting Paris last week with some in this House and attending OECD meetings where trade issues in particular were at the centre. It was with great seriousness in the voice that many refined politicians and officials there said that if for the next ten years we do not regain the spark and glow of multilateralism and great global cooperation, we risk losing all of this. This is not just about the White House and about Donald Trumps's attacks on free trade or about us seeing an isolationist trend when populism becomes strong, but it is also about simply understanding the value of resolving conflicts in this way. I believe that the Minister for Foreign Affairs can agree with the discussion that is now taking place not least in the United Nations, where the new Secretary-General, as his main point, has put forward to bring back multilateralism and inter-dependence, interdependence. We're interdependent, but we don't have much time. It is important that more people highlight this. I will conclude by saying: I think it is very important to be optimistic too. We live in a time where doomsday prophets are hailing in this pulpit and in television sets. This will certainly also mark an election movement in a very bleak way. There are problems and challenges. All that should be taken very seriously. But if you're not optimistic, you can't look forward. Deaf-blind Keller Hel en Keller said something very wise: No pessimist ever discovered the secrets of the stars, sailed to undiscovered continents or opened new doors to the human will. There's actually something in it.
i-83e790899e640a89-496	Madam President, I would like I continue to say, Birgitta, that I will miss the voice that is yours when it comes to the fact that, precisely because of the value of multilateralism, we need to be active in both the European Union and the United Nations. The UN is the forum where we are currently discussing all these really big and difficult issues. I hope, of course, that without you the Alliance will also be able to be much more active in the discussion about how we use the platform we have for another year. It is very important how we act there. I also believe that we must move from these concerns to belief in the future. That is what we are going to take with us from this debate. We need to work together, and we need to hope. Thank you very much, Birgitta.
i-83e790899e640a89-498	Madam President, I would like I think it is very important to realise that there needs to be no conflict between having an extremely strong European commitment and having a strong commitment to the United Nations. The same principle applies. The UN is no more than what the Member States make of it. Nor will it be the European Union. It's important to see it. Although the EU is the most important foreign policy arena for us liberals, there is a firm commitment to making the United Nations more valued, and that is a very important cog in multilateralism.
i-83e790899e640a89-499	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Birgitta Ohlsson, for a very thought-provoking speech. Politics is very much about dealing with target conflicts. A central conflict of interests, not least in foreign policy, concerns values which, as a rule, clash with economic interests and security interests. I find that difficult to deal with – we all really think so. Rarely is it as clear as when it comes to China. We have not discussed China very much during this debate, but I imagine that future foreign policy debates will be much more about this giant, which may even be the world's largest economy in the next decade. There have been many years more Chinese investments in the outside world than vice versa. You get a participation and therefore probably also a political interest. How do we deal with this? We are of course in favour of trade, and it is interesting with renewable energy, which is almost exploding in China, and so on. But at the same time we now see how the one-party state strengthens its grip under Xi Jinping. Human rights are going backwards. At the same time, of course, such a large part of the world economy cannot be isolated. You, Birgitta Ohlsson, are an unusually intellectual politician. Before you leave the committee, you can tell us how to deal with China.
i-83e790899e640a89-503	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Valter Mutt, for those words! I have had many interesting debates with Valter over the years. I remember a debate we had when I was a minister of the European Union. It was a debate on how to measure economic growth from a little more green aspects. It was a stimulating intellectual conversation. However, I think it should be remembered that I represent the Liberal Party in the Swedish Parliament. We are the party that, when Maria Leissner was the leader of the party, actually expressed distrust of the then Prime Minister Göran Persson when he praised the stability of the Communist dictatorship, if you say so. We have never had any fear of being clear about China. This has also been the case when we have been in alliance governments. We have a very difficult situation. Maybe what I'm most afraid of globally... and I've been for ten years... is that we're seeing a form of... Singaporification... of the world. China is also imitated. Many low-income countries see the economic dynamics of Singapore and China. But you just pick one leg. You choose economic freedom but not human freedom and political and civil rights. I, as a Liberal, believe that one can not only choose one leg. One must ensure that they are kept together in a very sharp and clear way. During these years in Parliament I have got to know a lot of people. One of the people who affected me the most is a man who died a few years ago. His name was Harry Wu. He spent 19 years in Chinese laogai, which is China's equivalent of gulag. In practice, he grew up in cages during the years when he was incarcerated. His only crime was that, as a young, politically unconscious student, he said to a girlfriend at the University of Beijing that he thought it unfair for the Soviet Union to enter Budapest, Hungary. He marked it. Then he went to prison for a very long time. You need not be afraid that liberals will not dare to continue to have a very sharp and clear voice. However, I agree with Valter Mutt that this is a major issue with which governments are struggling.
i-83e790899e640a89-508	Madam President, I would like I think there is a lot in the report by Birgitta Ohlsson on the issue of Singaporeporification. Viktor Orbán, Hungarian Prime Minister, gave a speech the other year saying that his great vision for the future was to build a non-il Iberal state on a national basis, and he just presented Turkey, Singapore and China as models. I believe that we must somehow achieve the civil society that is, after all, under the one-party state of China – it is about environmental groups and so on. Then, of course, it is important for us to act in a reasonable manner towards China within the framework of the European Union, where we are trying to divide the countries. But somehow there will still be huge economic interests. Also a liberal party is prepared to perhaps sacrifice jobs in Sweden to tease the Chinese, so to speak. I think it is a difficult conflict of objectives, and I myself do not really have an answer to this. But it can stand to discuss and think about.
i-83e790899e640a89-511	Madam President, I would like I can take another example from the history of the Liberals in the years I myself have been sitting here, when we were really clear. There were some forces in this Parliament, including a large alliance party and one of the major parties in the current government, who thought that the arms embargo that the EU had against China might be loosened up a little. We, together with other opposition parties, went out in various ways very hard to indicate that it was unacceptable. Sometimes you really have to put your foot down. This applies, in particular, to issues such as arms exports. Then I think it's like this: If the Chinese are to be given freedom in the future, you can't shut down all trade. It is important to build up a conscious middle class and to have large contact areas. For in all countries there are people who want democracy, and there will never be democracy without democrats. They're supposed to feel full support.
i-83e790899e640a89-514	Madam President, I would like Perhaps you are surprised that I am requesting a reply to Birgitta Ohlsson's speech. There is a colleague in the Committee on Foreign Affairs for a long time. We have fought together for aid of 1% of the UK. We have stood up together for SRHR issues, human rights, democracy and so on. I am pleased with the multilateral signal from Birgitta. I agree with that. The climate agenda is very important – I was going to mention that. Birgitta also has a clear EU commitment. I am happy for a very good cooperation and for a lot of good laughs over the years. As this is the last foreign policy debate that Birgitta is taking part in, and since it is 14 February, I think there are reasons, Madam President, to emphasise that Birgitta does not only represent the brain but also a great deal of heart. She has been around for a long time and has had a great deal of commitment to many people. I would like to thank her for that, and I would like to wish her the best of luck.
i-83e790899e640a89-517	Madam President, I would like I'm all touched. Thank you very much, Kerstin Lundgren, for the incredibly beautiful and kind words– it has been very nice to fight with you and everyone else in the committee. I think that we have had great respect for each other regardless of party colours, although there have sometimes been very tough political debates. It has nevertheless been especially fun to sit between Kerstin Lundgren from the Center Party and Sofia Damm from the Christian Democrats. We've been stuck together especially over these years. Thank you very much. My tongue won't wither. I will do something that you will certainly hear more about later.
i-83e790899e640a89-520	Madam President, I would like For a long time, our world was divided. The tension between two power centers created a clear division between freedom and oppression. When the Berlin Wall fell, we thought it was the beginning of something new: a new history of peace and freedom. For 28 years, 2 months and 27 days, the German people were kept divided. Now the united Germany has been without the wall for a longer time than it kept sisters from brothers. It may be easy to ignore or forget the reasons why the Berlin Wall was erected. But I think we need to remind ourselves of them in order to understand our present. From the formation of the German Democratic Republic, as the Communist State was formally called, in the autumn of 1949 until the end of 1960, nearly 3 million people abandoned the GDR for freedom in West Germany. Among those who fled in the last year before the Berlin Wall was established, half were under 25 years of age. Madam President, I would like Even today, people live in oppression. Today, too, we face young people in Europe who have fled for a better future. Even today we have states that call themselves something but are its opposite. And even today we need countries that stand up for those who live in a dictatorship. The publisher and Swedish citizen Gui Minhai have once again been detained in China, right in front of the eyes of two Swedish diplomats. This shows China's total disrespect for the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations. It also shows that this great nation does not respect our country. This is important to have with you, especially because China is taking an increasing place in the world, including in Europe. More and more countries are being courted with offers of investments in ports, railways, bridges and roads. But behind the new silk road is an agenda. In Sweden, the planned deep harbour construction in Lysekil came to raise the question of how Sweden should relate to China's economic expansion and foreign policy ambitions. Sweden is a small and export-dependent country. Good cooperation with China is desirable. But Sweden cannot accept another country's disrespectful treatment of the human rights of our citizens. Just as little can the government be allowed to have a naive view of foreign investment and not understand how it affects our own security policy. How is it even possible for the government to mention municipal self-government in matters of national security? Madam President, I would like The Berlin Wall is gone, but the tensions between East and West are back. The Swedish Government must understand the seriousness of what is now happening. We have seen in recent years how the United States withdrew and renounced the responsibility the world has become accustomed to. However, no vacuum has arisen. Russia, China, Iran and Turkey with other states have instead taken the opportunity to move their positions. At this stage, it is important for the EU to step forward and take a more leading role. Five decades ago, the great post-war politician, Konrad Adenauer, spoke about the future of Europe. He said that political union should result in the development of a coordinated foreign policy for free Europe and that the American partner of the Euro-Atlantic alliance should be relieved by the increased formation of Europe. This is still an up-to-date message. There is a need for a working alliance between those forces that believe in freedom, democracy and the unique and inviolable value of each human being. The world needs a strong Europe. Sweden must shoulder its responsibilities. In our area, we see human rights and freedoms being violated. War actions are allowed to take place in Ukraine, only 1,800 km away from us, and in the Balkans the conflicts have resurging. Either we export stability or we import instability, said enlargement Johannes Hahn last week when the European Commission's strategy for the Western Balkans was presented. The answer to these challenges is a stronger Europe – a united political leadership with a common foreign and security policy worthy of the name. The answer to Europe's challenges is not a social pillar, where parental insurance and minimum wages are to be regulated at EU level. Madam President, I would like The Arab Spring lit the flame of freedom in the Middle East. Seven years later, the flame is gasping weaker and weaker. The gleam of light became Tunisia. It is positive that Sweden opened an embassy in Tunis, but what happened then? Sweden and the European Union must gather together to make Tunisia the showcase of democracy. The Arab world must be given its own role model. The Middle East has changed fundamentally in recent years. Those who referred to the Middle East conflict in the past understand that there can no longer be talk of a conflict in front of everyone else. Yet Sweden has been brought into the UN's monotonous speech choir, which unilaterally and constantly condemns Israel. America's new UN ambassador Nikki Haley has had the courage to shake up a too closed UN system. Sweden must assist in the attempt to breathe through the international community and all its institutions, not to create disputes and contradictions, but to reinvigorate the world organisation. Something is wrong, Madam President, when we have a Security Council that was unable to prevent the Islamic State's genocide against Yazidians and Christians in Iraq. Something is wrong when a Human Rights Council is run by states such as Iran, Cuba and Venezuela. The war in Syria is a disgrace. It is a failure for the international community when more than 20 million are starving in East Africa and when 17 out of 28 million inhabitants of war-affected Yemen are in acute famine. We only have one UN, and if it is to have credibility, the UN must experience a renaissance! Madam President, I would like For a long time we lived in the shadow of the threat of nuclear war. Now, through the arms cramp from North Korea, we have once again been thrown into this darkness. Here, Sweden can use our channels to North Korea. Diplomacy must never be reduced to an underestimated tool. Just as little should our relations be of the nature that we only seek dialogue where there is a mutual interest. It is precisely where the common view of human rights and freedoms is lacking that we should speak. Where oppression is complete, we shall stand up for freedom and democracy. Our foreign policy actions are ultimately about looking after people's lives. Life after the fall of the Berlin Wall did not become a new story. It was just a new chapter. It is we, Madam President, who decide whether to repeat the story. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by thanking Mrs Ohlsson, who is today making her last foreign policy debate in this House. Many thanks for putting human rights issues on the agenda for a very long time! It will be more boring here without you, but I look forward to following your continued struggle for human rights and democracy, for that fight I am absolutely convinced will last, and it is needed.
i-PSaTKKvt7fYFNxmV9uXFHi	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Sofia Damm, for a wide-ranging and interesting speech. After all, there is an interesting tension between economic power and political power in the world. The prestigious aid organisation Oxfam regularly reports on how we gain an increasingly concentrated economic power, where a few dozen men – it is basically only men – own as much as the poorest half of humanity, i.e. 3.7 billion people. Economic power is often translated into political power, as is the case with, for example, the Koch brothers in the United States, active in the fossil industry, and Putin-near oligarchs in Russia, also often active in the fossil industry. It is clear that continuing economic concentration of power affects countries' climate policies and has all kinds of negative consequences for democracy. It would be interesting to hear Sofia Damm develop ideas on how we can get a real market economy in the world with a much more dispersed power than in the direction it is going now.
i-83e790899e640a89-545	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Valter Mutt, for your statement and question! It takes longer to take that line of reasoning, and I look forward to doing so in the future. What we have talked about, and which has been a bit typical of this debate, is about openness between countries– multilater alism and collaboration within various international bodies. I believe that it is with transparency and free trade agreements that we were also involved in our previous shift of lines that people rise out of poverty, where people have the opportunity to develop economically. That is why I believe that trade agreements between the countries of the world are such a tool.
i-83e790899e640a89-547	Madam President, I would like It wants free trade agreements to promote free trade and not – as the world's leading country to a large extent today – to be dominated by some thousands, perhaps 2 000, large multinational groups. Indeed, 60% of world trade today is not business-to-business trade but intra-group trade between different divisions of giant companies. It is extremely important to have more widespread ownership and business. That is where the fight against tax havens, where so much of the money is available today, comes in. It would be nice if Sofia Damm could say a few words about how better we combat tax havens than we have done so far.
i-83e790899e640a89-550	Madam President, I would like It is clear that trade should be free and that it should be done with a level playing field. There I agree with Valter Mutt that there is a long way to go, especially in terms of combating tax evasion – which I understand Valter Mutt refers to. It is not possible to have this discussion without talking about democracy and respect for human rights. We must see that countries' regimes have a responsibility to ensure that prosperity and trade benefit the population. It's hard to keep one thing from the other-- it's all connected. Valter Mutt raises important issues.
i-83e790899e640a89-552	Madam President, I would like Honourable Members and listeners! Security policy is the focus today in much of the foreign policy debate. That, of course, says a lot about our present and a lot about the geographical situation of our Sweden. Sweden is part of a complicated world and is also in a complicated neighbourhood. It is a neighbourhood in which different countries have different history and traditions. On this basis, each country has made different choices in its relationship with NATO. After World War II, Norway and Denmark chose to join NATO. After the fall of the Soviet Union and Eastern Communism, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland chose to apply for membership, and also got membership, of NATO. Sweden and Finland, Madam President, have chosen another route, namely to be militaryly non-aligned. At the same time, we have built the closest cooperation that some individual countries and non-NATO members have with NATO. The close cooperation with NATO that Sweden and Finland have also complements Sweden with a series of agreements with different countries on military cooperation, which is often referred to in the debate as bilateral agreements. The security threats to Sweden and any other modern country in our part of the world are not just military. They are far more and more complicated than that. These include natural disaster threats, cyber-intrusion threats, terrorist threats and the risk of infrastructure failures. When faced with the broad picture of security threats to our society and to our country, the answers to how to deal with them must be much broader than simply being limited to a yes or a no to NATO membership. Sweden's security policy should be long-term – very long-term. It is not possible to join NATO for a term of office or two and then leave NATO if you are not satisfied. Sweden is to be kept safe and secure in the complex world and in the complex neighbourhood – today, tomorrow and for a long time to come. We do this best by having many different collaborations and options, not by investing in NATO membership as our only card.
i-83e790899e640a89-557	Madam President, I would like I asked for the floor because I thought that I could possibly get an answer from Kenneth G. Forslund when he expects others to come to our aid. Who expects Kenneth G Forslund to come? What makes it so difficult to expect to be assured that someone will come if the worst happens?
i-83e790899e640a89-558	Madam President, I would like In a way, it is an impossible question that Kerstin Lundgren is asking, and at the same time, of course, it is a very relevant question. It is impossible because it involves speculation at some point in the future that neither of us wants to see, whether I, Kerstin Lundgren or probably anyone else in this House. At the same time, we need to think about how to be prepared if the worst happens. I believe that the most important thing we can do is to have many different partnerships and contacts with other countries and organisations in order to have choices and opportunities for action in the event of the worst. At the same time, we must be well aware that the threats around us are not just military threats, but there are many other threats, as I mentioned in my speech, for which we must also be prepared.
i-83e790899e640a89-560	Madam President, I would like What choices does Kenneth G Forslund see before him when Russia – President Putin – calls and tells the Swedish government that you are now doing this, otherwise you know what can happen? Small countries are particularly vulnerable. That is why Finland, unlike what Mr Kenneth Forslund said, is clear about having an option. Can Kenneth G Forslund imagine having an option, like Finland? We are alone in our Nordic environment to stand completely without everything. What's Norway doing wrong? What is Finland doing wrong? What is Denmark doing wrong? What do they see as something that can happen that Kenneth G Forslund does not see?
i-83e790899e640a89-563	Madam President, I would like As I said in my speech, different countries have different history and traditions. We also have different geographical locations. I think it is quite obvious that Finland formulates its security policy line and its relationship with NATO in the way it does. Finland has a 1334 km long reason to do so, namely its immediate border with Russia. Sweden does not have that situation. Sweden has a different location, a different history and a different tradition. I would like to come back to what Kerstin Lundgren raised in her first question, which was about NATO and the defence guarantees that are there. They are, as I see it, an obstacle for Sweden to join, because they do not work with our tradition of decision-making. At the same time, automaticity should not be overvalued. It is not entirely obvious that NATO is coming to the rescue.
i-83e790899e640a89-565	Madam President, I would like In foreign policy, Sweden works mostly with consensus and consensus. Today is the day when we are most at odds. Especially since this is the last debate of the parliamentary term so this is an election year, the tone can be a little extra harsh. Madam President, I would like It's easy to just break down when we see the world as it looks right now. There's a lot going in the right direction, but there's no shortage of threats. Our values of openness, democracy and human rights are being called into question. Climate change is driving crises. Democratic and multilateral solutions are being challenged. The scope for civil society is shrinking. Journalists are being imprisoned. SRHR issues are downgraded. The border between war and peace is fluid. Conflicts are getting smaller but worse and going on for a long time. The humanitarian crises, in which we must together prevent death and relieve distress, must be given priority. But it is not possible to lose momentum in long-term development aid, which works very preventively and has a direct impact on the world's security situation. Resources are limited, efficiency is difficult to measure and policy must be prioritised. What is really most important? It's not that simple. The global sustainability goals are, however, something we have to stick to, a structure for getting a consensus in the world about everything that is wrong. But nothing happens if it does not happen in the countries. That's where ownership and power are even if the debates are held in the UN Scraper in New York. The UN system needs to be improved and developed and become more effective and relevant for our time. This is where the current government may not have delivered. The Government delegation for Agenda 2030 has failed. The President has left his post. The working plans from each Department of Global Development Policy and the Sustainable Development Goals in Agenda 2030, which we read a year ago on the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, do not exist as established documents. It is difficult for Parliament to review the work of the government when the paper we have read and held in hand then does not formally exist. I understand why they're not being communicated. But this isn't the first time. We have read in the media about parallel information management systems. We experience daily shortcomings in transparency, no further anchoring and darkening of reports. That doesn't impress me. In addition, the agency Sida has been politicized by appointing a top social democrat as Director General. She went directly from the role of elected MP of the Foreign Affairs Committee to becoming a supposed non-political official. But in reality it became an extra minister of aid and an overcoat for the Green Party. Madam President, I would like There must be an end to the power of the Social Democrats and poor management of foreign and security policy. It is easy to think that the government is doing too little and too late. The content of politics should be better. The Social Democrats are swaying in security policy while the Green Party is pursuing its line, as it stands, and the government base The Left Party has come to terms by, together with SD, both wanting to leave the EU and being against NATO. It is more rhetoric than practice from the current government. The content of politics is probably the most focused on reasonably sticking to the Swedish line – with some departures. The policy lacks transparency, and it really lacks anchoring. The lack of interest in the issues of aid from the combined climate and development ministers does not impress either. Sweden deserves better. Madam President, I would like The Alliance has a great deal of common ground. We are united about Europe. We are united about NATO. We stand up for free trade. We stand up for what Sweden has long stood for: focus on human rights, openness, transparency, SRHR – sexual and reproductive health and rights – and civil society. We are working for good relations with the neighbourhood and Europe, and we agree in our approach to Russia. And we like working with each other. There has been a very loving debate here today in various ways. I would like to thank you for all the fine cooperation, Kerstin Lundgren from the Center Party, Birgitta Ohlsson from the Liberals – who is making her last debate today; it is very sad – and Sofia Damm from the Christian Democrats! I appreciate our cooperation very much. In conclusion, Sweden can do so much better. It is possibly true that no one wins choices from foreign policy, but it is possible to lose choices by not running it properly. Madam President, I would like The Russian aggression in our neighbourhood and the illegal annexation of Crimea affect our security policy. Sweden was a driving force for the EU to impose sanctions. They were also introduced gradually in 2014-2015. Sanctions are blunt, but sanctions policy has been successful in keeping the EU together. But we can do more. Sweden can press for sanctions to be extended so that people who violate human rights, who persecute, torture and kill democracy and civil society activists and who live on corruption can be subject to additional sanctions. This calls for new legislation, and good legislation is already in place in several countries. I believe that Sweden could be ready for a Magnitsky law and that broad consensus can be found on this.
i-83e790899e640a89-581	Madam President, I would like For many years, the Moderates have shown that they lack the ability to analyse safety policy. As early as I was 23 years old, when I wrote and wrote the Youth League's defence policy section in 1999, I had better analytical skills than the Moderates had for eight years in the Government Office. I warned against developments in Russia at that time – that although it looked good at that time, it could change rapidly. Nine years later, I was right. Even then, the Moderates didn't wake up. In 2013, the Chairman of the Swedish Defence Committee said, "There is no threat to Sweden, nor do we see any intention of such a thing developing." The Moderate Minister for Defence said in 2014 at the National Conference of People and Förvar that an armed military attack was unlikely and that the security policy situation in the Baltic Sea region is more stable today than ten years ago. So I wonder: What analyses do the Moderates do? Will the tension increase or decrease with Swedish membership of NATO?
i-83e790899e640a89-585	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Björn Söder! We are convinced that Sweden is a sovereign country that makes its own decisions when it comes to safety policy choices. Of course, we should not be affected by any sort of alleged threat from Russia as to whether or not we should join NATO. We make our own decisions. We cannot be governed by Russia. But we can be clear that NATO membership would give us a security guarantee that we do not have today. That would increase the possibility of peace, and we think that is a good thing. NATO is a defence alliance, and it could help us – quite a lot, indeed.
i-83e790899e640a89-587	Madam President, I would like I interpret Sofia Arkelsten's answer as making the assessment that this would reduce tension because it provides security policy security and so on. But it must also be borne in mind that Sweden is a small country. You have to deal with this and look realistically at how things work; you must not be naive or foolish. There will be consequences of a Swedish membership. If Sweden joins NATO, Finland will probably also join NATO; there will be consequences from other powers. That has already been promised. It has been said that it is not a threat, but there are consequences. Then I wonder: Does this increase or decrease the tension in the Baltic Sea region? Neither NATO nor Russia want a military vacuum here. If we equip our defence forces and Finland does the same and we deepen our defence policy cooperation with Finland and perhaps create a defence alliance, Russia and NATO think that this is a good idea. Why is this not the way forward, instead of Swedish membership of NATO, which will increase tension?
i-83e790899e640a89-590	Madam President, I would like It makes me happy that the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats have great differences in their security policy analyses. Not joining NATO is, of course, also an active choice. It changes the issues of tension, and if you do what the Swedish Democrats want, the Russian threat will actually win. After all, you have believed that there would be consequences, and that distinguishes us in our approach to Russia politically. I also know that the Swedish Democrats have been criticised quite strongly in the past for the pro-Russia line you have taken in the European Parliament. That is something that we are totally opposed to. Membership of NATO is something that all alliance parties think would be good. It would increase the possibility of peace-- it's a defense alliance. We have already asked for a report on how to approach NATO in a good way.
i-83e790899e640a89-592	Madam President, I would like I note after the last shift that the Moderates are doing the same disastrous security policy analysis that has put Sweden in the situation we are in today. So we are continuing along the path that has been taken. Madam President, I would like Last December, U.S. President Donald Trump acknowledged Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and announced that he had instructed the State Department to begin moving the U.S. Embassy from the financial centre Tel Aviv to the capital of Jerusalem. It has been presented, Madam President, in some places as something that Trump himself made up. But anyone who claims this is poorly read. The Republican Party has long had inscribed in its program that Jerusalem is Israel's eternal capital. Even the Democratic Party has written in its recent programmes that Jerusalem is the capital of Israel. It should also be borne in mind that in 2008, former President Obama stressed that Jerusalem must be Israel's undivided capital. Trumps's action enjoys broad cross-political support in Congress, including expressed in the Jerusalem Recognition Act of 1995, which was confirmed by the Senate just six months before recognition. Madam President, I would like The UN's partition plan for the 1947 British Palestine Mandate meant that the whole of Jerusalem and the surrounding area would be considered an international zone. This was not accepted by the Arabs, and when the State of Israel was proclaimed in 1948 the neighbouring Arab states attacked Israel with the aim of annihilating the state. East Jerusalem was occupied by then Transjordania, and the Jews were driven out. Western Jerusalem became a part of Israel. In the same aggression war Transjordani also occupied the West Bank, and Egypt occupied Gaza. N is the Israeli Parliament, the Knesset, held its first ordinary session in 1949, it was decided that Jerusalem is the capital of the Jewish state, as it has been since 1950, when Israel moved its government to western Jerusalem. Today, Parliament, the President, the Supreme Court and the Ministries, but also social and cultural institutions and authorities, are installed in Jerusalem. When the Arab states of 1967 again attacked and made another attempt to wipe out Israel, Israel took the West Bank from Jordan, which had then occupied it illegally for 19 years. They also took Jerusalem, who suffered under the same occupation, and since then Jerusalem has been an undivided capital of Israel. The fact that the city is under Israeli control has meant that people from all religions have been able to get there. This was not the case when the eastern part was under Arab control. Madam President, I would like President Trump has now done what is already obvious and was it for the Jews themselves already 3,000 years ago, when King David bought the place that is today Mount Temple, namely to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. The American Embassy will also be moved there. After Trumps's recognition, more states have recognised or signalled that they will recognise Jerusalem as the de facto capital of Israel and move their embassies there. Sweden should follow. Of course, the embassy of our country should be located in the city from which Israel is ruled, and Jerusalem is the capital of Israel. But instead, Sweden's Foreign Minister Margot Wallström once again chooses to show that the Swedish Government, as so many times before, has lost its moral compass in foreign policy in its attack on the only democratic state in its area. Wallström calls the decision to recognize Jerusalem as Israel's capital city disastrous. And in the same spirit, she and the government continue to pump millions of Swedish tax funds into the Palestinian Authority to finance, albeit indirectly, anti-Semitism and terrorism. Madam President, I would like Sweden's Middle East policy is a complete joke. Not only does it embarrass us in front of the outside world and make a fool of us. More importantly, it contributes to fueling anti-Semitism and terrorism. I am therefore proud to represent a party that stands for something else, a party that is now presenting proposals in its election platform for Sweden to recognise Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. With a Swedish democratic foreign policy, Israel will, unlike now, have a friend in Sweden and Swedish foreign policy.
i-83e790899e640a89-602	Madam President, I would like The conflict between Israel and Palestine tends to involve many people and has had it for a long time. I myself am thinking of an event four years ago. That's when three Israeli teenagers were kidnapped and then murdered. They were found on the Palestinian side. A week later, a Palestinian teenager was found murdered, burned to death, and an eight - year - old was nearly kidnapped but just escaped. I have been a lot in Israel and Palestine, and I have met both sides. The conclusion to be drawn is that there is an incredible desire for peace among all parties there, but absolute extremists are constantly allowed to set the agenda. This has never been good. When Björn Söder spoke, I did not hear him mention much about Palestine, and so I ask: How does Björn Söder view Israel's occupation of Palestine?
i-83e790899e640a89-605	Madam President, I would like I do not believe that Israel is occupying Palestine. When Israel took these areas into a defence war in 1967, there was no Palestine, but the territories were illegally occupied by Transjordania and subsequently by Jordan and Egypt. With regard to violence, which Anders Österberg mentioned, it is, of course, reprehensible on both sides. But the difference here is that violence is not sanctioned by the Israeli Government. On the other hand, violence is ultimately sanctioned by the Palestinian Authority. They even fund terrorists who have murdered a Jew. Then the family will be rewarded with extra funds, and the terrorist will be rewarded with funds while in prison. There is a big difference: the Palestinian Authority is sanctioning and fueling anti-Semitism and terrorism. And Sweden finances this indirectly.
i-83e790899e640a89-607	Madam President, I would like Mr Ya, Mr Lieberman and, moreover, Mr Bennett, who used to be Israel's Minister for Economic Affairs, have said that they never want to see a Palestinian state. Does Björn Söder share that view?
i-83e790899e640a89-608	Madam President, I would like On behalf of the Swedish Democrats, we want a two-state solution. That is what we are also advocating. But it should also be remembered that there is already a Palestinian state; it is called Jordan and is located on the east side of the Jordan River. There has been a state since the 20th century. The western side was to be divided between Jews and Arabs. Not long before the Arab states wanted to wipe out the Jewish state altogether. Both the West Bank and Gaza were occupied, as was once again attempted in 1967 when Israel was again attacked to wipe out the state and when Israel took these areas back in a war of defence. I therefore do not believe that these are occupied areas.
i-83e790899e640a89-611	Madam President, I would like We have heard a great deal in this House about the state of the world. There have been many fine accounts and accounts. I shall therefore not repeat this. But we can see that today we have a situation where the number of conflicts is increasing, where authoritarian and repressive regimes are gaining influence, where inequality between men and women is a serious problem and where we still have a great many people living in deep poverty. In such a context, active and clear foreign policy is something that can really make a difference. There is also aid, which is an important instrument for contributing to the foreign policy line. The Swedish debate has recently raised voices for the need for greater humanitarian efforts. With 65 million people on the run around the world, 140 million in need of humanitarian aid and over 200 million people affected by natural disasters in one way or another, it is not surprising that help is needed. It is sometimes said that the government does not do enough and does not give priority to efforts where the need is greatest. But it is a statement that is wrong in substance. It's a strange view of what needs really are. Sweden is the seventh largest donor in the world of humanitarian aid. With this year's budget, we are increasing humanitarian aid by 1.3 billion. These efforts save lives in the event of crises and disasters worldwide. Of course, that line should be fixed. But we cannot give priority to emergency action over long-term development cooperation. Then we will never get to the root causes of conflict and poverty, and need is not being seriously cured. It's just a symptom relief. These things must be followed up – long-term aid that strengthens democracy and human rights and emergency aid where it is needed. Madam President, I would like More than ever, we need aid as a tool for long-term and sustainable development, a tool for promoting stable, peaceful and prosperous societies. That is why we have made special efforts to address the development challenges that constitute the most serious obstacles to such development. I am thinking of conflict prevention, the climate, democracy and human rights and a feminist foreign policy. As far as conflict prevention is concerned, we see that we have a very troubled environment. We have more conflicts than we have in a long time, and conflicts are one of the most serious, if not the most serious, obstacles to the development of countries. Violence in countries such as Syria, Yemen and Afghanistan has wiped out decades of economic, social and political development. We have therefore developed several geographical and regional strategies that strengthen efforts to prevent armed conflicts. We have launched a new global strategy for sustainable peace that strengthens the bridge between humanitarian aid and long-term development cooperation. And we are increasing aid by about 2 billion to the poorest countries this year. Many of these countries are in a conflict or post-conflict situation. We also see democracy and respect for human rights being eroded in many places. This trend has slowed down in more than 60 countries since 2012. In many parts of the world, countries have come to the sloping plane of authoritarian government. We have therefore increased our ambitions in the work on human rights and are increasing the pace of counter-repression. We have launched a new global strategy on human rights, democracy and the rule of law. We have commissioned Sida to create an increased impact for democratic development. And we are investing in SRHR in particular, an area in which we actually allocate 8% of the aid budget. Aid and foreign policy complement each other. For example, when we support the democratic development of countries or strengthen public administration in countries such as Ukraine, we also gain better capacity to implement reforms for an EU approach, which is an important foreign policy effort. Madam President, I would like Climate and security also go hand in hand. The climate is a development and poverty issue and, in fact, one of the most important. Climate change hits the most vulnerable in societies and the poorest places in the world. If we do not keep the global temperature increase below 1.5 degrees, much of the good development that has actually happened will fail. A changing climate is also one of the greatest security risks. Droughts and floods, as well as a shortage of water and food, can reinforce the potential for conflict. In the past, we have not been good enough at taking this perspective into our security policy analyses. But we are doing it now, and we must do it even more in the future. Against this background, I am extremely pleased with the Government's increase in ambition in the field of climate and aid and the Swedish leadership in an international perspective, not least in terms of support to the Green Fund and to the UN climate funds. Madam President, I would like This year we have adopted the largest aid budget ever in Sweden. We reach the target of 1% of GDP, a target that few countries achieve. We are providing funds in several important areas. We are very proud of that. In times when we talk about many conflicts, we should remember that a lot of good has happened. In 2015, 193 countries signed Agenda 2030. It is an agenda for sustainable development for the whole world, which really pushes for interdependence between different issues, from education to climate and environment, to gender equality. This is the world's chance. Never before have we so agreed on anything. Here the international community has been determined, and I hope that we will continue to have the leadership shirt that we have.
i-83e790899e640a89-625	Madam President, I would like It has now been 43 years since Morocco's illegal occupation of Western Sahara began without a solution. It is an occupation that is contrary to the decisions of the UN and the International Court of Justice, which designate the occupation as illegal. Sweden has now been on the UN Security Council for more than a year, and it is high time to move up a gear on the Western Sahara issue, so that the promised referendum on the independence of Western Sahara is brought about as soon as possible. It is a referendum that Morocco and Western Sahara's legal representative Polisario have negotiated and signed and which should have been carried out back in 1992 but which has not yet taken place because of Morocco's systematic delaying tactics and sabotage. It is, of course, a major failure of the Security Council and has seriously damaged the credibility of the Council and strengthened Morocco's position. In order to regain control and speed up the process, the UN Security Council should set a date for the referendum. There is no other acceptable solution to the conflict. The UN Force Minurso, which is responsible for monitoring the process in Western Sahara, is the only peacekeeping force in the world that does not have a mandate to monitor human rights. It is unreasonable for the Sahrawis to be left completely unprotected. The reality of Western Sahara in the occupied area is marked by repression and systematic violations of human rights. Sweden must therefore continue to press to give Mr Minurso an extended mandate. A majority of the Sahrawi population has been living for decades in refugee camps in Algeria in the Sahara's desert under very difficult conditions. A quarter of children under five years of age suffer from chronic malnutrition, and many women suffer from iron deficiency. The food provided by the World Food Programme is inadequate and adapted for emergency situations, not to be the only source of food for a long time. I expect Swedish aid to the refugee camps to be increased as soon as possible. It is also important for Sweden to distance itself clearly from Morocco's plundering of Western Sahara's natural resources. It is a looting that is extremely profitable for Morocco and helps to strengthen the occupation. It is therefore gratifying that the EU's top lawyers recently issued an opinion which made it clear that the EU fisheries agreement with Morocco is illegal, because the waters of the occupied Western Sahara are included. I therefore assume that Sweden will vote against a fisheries agreement between the EU and Morocco that includes Western Sahara. I also expect Sweden to respect the European Court of Justice decision of December 2016. The judgment states that Morocco is not entitled to Western Sahara's natural resources. This means that no EU countries or institutions in these countries have the right to sign agreements with Morocco on Sahrawi products as long as the people of Western Sahara have not given their consent through their legitimate representative, Polisario. After years of plundering Western Sahara, it is now time to respect international law. It is therefore important for the government to issue a recommendation to the Swedish business community on the basis of the obligations arising from the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights not to operate in the occupied Western Sahara or trade in products from the occupied area. The Sahrawi people also expect the Swedish Government to recognise the Democratic Sahrawi Republic of Western Sahara, in line with the Parliament's decision of 2012. I know that my colleague, Yasmine Posio Nilsson, spoke about Turkey and the Kurdish struggle. I would just like to emphasise the importance of Sweden standing up for the clear rights of the Kurds in Iraq, Iran, Syria and Turkey. Today, it is particularly important for Sweden to act vigorously to end Turkey's illegal attack on the Kurdish-dominated region of Aphrin in Syria. It is an attack that is clearly contrary to international law. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say a few words about China. China remains a harsh dictatorship that systematically violates a wide range of fundamental human rights, such as freedom of expression, freedom of association and freedom of religion and organisation. A clear example is the imprisonment of the Swedish citizen and publisher Gui Minhai. It is good that Foreign Minister Wallström has acted forcefully, condemned the imprisonment and demanded his immediate release. I am convinced that Sweden will continue along the same lines and not listen to the Chinese threats. However, it is important that Sweden, in any form of contact with China, addresses the extensive and serious violations of freedom of expression and the press and calls for a stop to the use of the death penalty. China is today also the world's second largest market for organ transplants. The organ trade is a lucrative industry. The first data on organ theft from prisoners of conscience in China came in 2006. After massive criticism from the outside world, the regime claims that organ theft is no longer taking place, but according to several experts in the field, it continues. Above all, this country's oppressed minorities and falungong practitioners are affected. Sweden should promote the establishment of an international investigation into organ theft reports in China. The government should also work to make it punishable for Swedish citizens to trade with organs even outside Sweden's borders.
i-83e790899e640a89-638	Madam President, I would like If we do not dress in red sweaters and go to the meetings of the local Socialist Party, we can forget all possible help in the form of food packages or other things. That's what a woman in Venezuela says to Expressen's reporter. Another woman holds her two - year - old son in her arms. I don't have any food to feed him. At the hospital, they say he's undernourished and needs medicine, but how am I supposed to pay it? She says, "I'm sorry. The medicine is not available. It is terrible to see this suffering in Venezuela. There is a lack of food, the level of violence is sky-high and oppression is getting tougher. Hundreds of thousands of people flee, especially to Colombia, but also to other neighbouring countries. Venezuela is today a destitute socialist dictatorship, and the country is approaching irreparably the precipice. The Colombian Minister of Finance warned the outside world the other week that Venezuela was approaching total collapse. Sweden now needs to change Latin America policy and take initiatives at the UN. Why should we sit on the UN Security Council if we do not do everything we can to prevent another collapse of the state? Sweden must condemn the repression in Venezuela, act in favour of more stringent sanctions and support the democratic opposition in that country. Now that we are also concluding cooperation agreements with Cuba, we must understand that Cuba and Venezuela are coordinated from the outset. This means that if efforts are to be made for democratisation, these efforts must also be coordinated. Venezuela and Cuba today are, as it were, a common problem complex for the outside world. It is very important that the Swedish Government understands this and uses the contact areas that it has with Havana to encourage Cuba to act constructively in relation to Venezuela. Madam President, I would like For a number of weeks Turkey has been attacking the Kurdish canton Afrin in northwestern Syria. Turkish military cooperates with jihadist groups to destroy Kurdish self-government. In tens of thousands of mosques in Turkey, they incite war and speak fatwor against the Kurds in Afrin. People who criticize Erdo中an and his war are imprisoned. Newspapers are closing. Thousands of civil servants are fired for political reasons. The leader of the Procurdian party HDP, Selahattin Demirtaş, is imprisoned. According to the Turkish authorities – these are the figures the Turkish authorities themselves admit – 449 people have been arrested for having made contributions on social media against the war in Afrin. The Foreign Minister said that he was deeply concerned about developments, and the government said the same in the foreign declaration. However, it then adds that the EU should not close the door to membership. It is strange to say the least, Madam President, that the reflexive reaction of the Red-Green Government when Turkey develops into an Islamic dictatorship is that it must be able to become a member of the European Union. The Foreign Minister said earlier in the debate – with the Left Party, I think it was – that it should not be forgotten that Turkey has received 3 million refugees from Syria. No, that is true, but what the Foreign Minister forgot to mention at that turn of the line is that Afrin has received hundreds of thousands of refugees – a far greater proportion than Turkey, which also has stable institutions capable of managing the flow of refugees. Turkey's war in Afrin is now in danger of creating new flows of refugees and triggering new instability in Syria. Sweden must, of course, protest more clearly against this illegal attack than it has done. Madam President, I would like When the Islamic State in the summer of 2014 poured into parts of Syria and Iraq, the Kurds defended their territories heroicly. It was done with light weapons, against the Islamic State which had heavy weapons at its disposal. The Kurds were helped by the United States and other countries in the coalition, but now that the Islamic State is soon completely defeated, the Kurds are once again turning their backs on the world. It is a historic betrayal, and we have unfortunately seen it many times before. Instead, the red - green government seems to consider the greatest concern in the world to be the state of Israel. Time and again, the Swedish Government unilaterally condemns Israel. At the same time, Sweden has an almost totally uncritical attitude towards Mahmud Abbas and the Palestinian, deeply corrupt and undemocratic leadership. New aid millions are plowed into this power apparatus. Hopefully, Madam President, we will have a new government this autumn that will restore trust between Sweden and Israel. I think it is very important to be able to influence the development of the region, and it is also for the benefit of the Palestinians if Sweden can influence Israel. Madam President, I would like Finally, there are a number of major challenges in the world. It is impossible to go through them all in the short speaking time I have at my disposal, but it will be very difficult for Sweden and Europe to meet the challenges without deeper EU cooperation.
i-83e790899e640a89-652	Madam President, I would like I agree with Fredrik Malm in much of what he says about the criticism of Turkey, Turkey's abuse of the indigenous population and Turkey's attack on the Kurds in Afrin. It's really horrible and a major violation of international law. But I must take this opportunity to ask, in relation to this terrible Turkey that you are painting: how is it that the People's Party, or the Liberals, so much want to enter into an alliance – NATO – where Turkey is also a member?
i-83e790899e640a89-654	Madam President, I would like To answer the question, I find it very worrying that Turkey is a member of NATO today. At the same time, there are probably some geopolitical values in Turkey's failure to align itself even more with Russia and Iran. The problem for Sweden, in our foreign and security policy, is our neighbourhood. When we see Russian action and the risk of instability, not least in the Baltic and Baltic Sea regions, it is important for Swedish defence capabilities and for our ability to protect our country that we have military cooperation with other countries. We know from quite long historical experience that destructive Russia is quite a worry for us. For us in the Liberals, it is very important that we should be able to become a member of NATO and be able to cooperate with NATO. This does not mean that we are in any way mild in our criticism of the abuses in Turkey.
i-83e790899e640a89-657	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that Fredrik Malm sees that it is problematic that Turkey is part of NATO. Now, however, it is not only Turkey that is part of NATO. Several other Member States, such as Hungary and Poland, have also taken several steps away from the path of democracy. NATO is also led by a president, Donald Trump, who is, to say the least, unpredictable. I'd be very worried about joining such an alliance. As far as our neighbourhood is concerned, it is rather the case that Swedish membership of NATO would be perceived by Russia as another threat. If Sweden were to join NATO, this would instead help to create a more insecure neighbourhood. On the other hand, it is incredibly important that we defend our freedom of alliance and stand up for peace and disarmament in our neighbourhood and in the outside world.
i-83e790899e640a89-661	Madam President, I would like The Left Party fought for half a century so that Sweden would rather be a member of the Eastern bloc and the Warsaw Pact, so it becomes almost parody when these issues are raised. It is clear that it is very important that we have a foreign and security policy that guarantees our democratic system in Sweden in the long term and contributes to stability in our neighbourhood. It is extremely important that we can do this. There may be different views on developments in Russia and on our foreign and security policy choices, but for Liberals and several other parliamentary parties cooperation with NATO is very important in order to guarantee Sweden's peace, security and stability in the long term.
i-83e790899e640a89-664	Madam President, I would like The world is worse than anyone has been, and at the same time the world is better than it has ever been. Both images are correct. In the changing world in which we live, Sweden really makes a difference. Crisises across the world are causing tremendous human suffering. The war in Syria has sent millions of people on the run, killed hundreds of thousands and created wounds that will take decades to heal. Daish's ruthless terror has blinded innocents. On the border between Burma and Bangladesh, scenes of unimaginable suffering are taking place. Mass graves testify to crimes against humanity. Sexual violence has been used as weapons of mass destruction when up to 700 000 Rohingyes have been expelled from their homes. The nuclear threat is constantly present on the Korean Peninsula. Russia's annexation of Crimea shows how the security situation has deteriorated significantly. The Palestinian conflict is far from a solution, and China's growing economic power is not accompanied by democratic development. Common solutions are needed for global threats. Yet nationalism, intolerance, and populism grow all over the globe. Donald Trump, Duterte, Le Pen, Fremskrittspartiet, Golden Dawn, Sweden Democrats, Jobbik and Erdo The world is worse than ever. At the same time, the world is also better than ever. Hunger, poverty and illiteracy are decreasing faster than ever in history. The world's countries have agreed on the Sustainable Development Goals in Agenda 2030, and the Paris Agreement is a great success. The Millennium target of halving poverty by 2015 was achieved by far, and now our generation is the first in world history to be able to completely eradicate extreme poverty. These advances are facts, but they are met with unbelief. Pessimism is increasing, fueled by populists, and the belief that the world can be changed is decreasing. A study in the United States shows that the number who believe in astrology, ghosts, and reincarnation is greater than the number who believe that these advances are true. What does Sweden do? We stand up for our values of international law, equal value, equality and equality. We have a feminist foreign policy in which we focus our work on promoting women's and girls' rights and on ensuring that women are allowed to sit around the tables where decisions are taken, where peace agreements are negotiated and where financial resources are allocated. We are running UN resolutions 1325 and 1820 on sexual violence in conflicts and the role of women in peace processes. The EU is our most important arena, but now that we are also a member of the UN Security Council, we can influence even more. Of course, the five permanent members have the greatest power, but Sweden is still actively driving and has influence. We are consistently and focused on issues related to international law, conflict prevention and women's rights. We lead the Council Working Group on Children in Armed Conflict. The issue of humanitarian access is also a tough one. We are a major donor of aid, which gives us great influence. When the Trump administration withdraws all American support for those who work with SRHR, Sweden steps forward and takes responsibility. Sweden is also one of the 122 countries that have supported the global ban on nuclear weapons. Madam President, I would like Feminist foreign policy is not just about hard or soft power but rather about smart power and achieving results. However, military action, financial sanctions and other measures may be needed to create peace and security, and we are happy to cooperate with other countries, the UN, the EU and NATO in military efforts to secure peace and combat terrorism. We have military troops in Mali, Afghanistan and Iraq. But it is not only soldiers who make a contribution for Sweden and the UN. Correctional officers, police officers and other experts represent the UN and Sweden in a fantastic way, often under very difficult and sometimes dangerous conditions. One such person was Zaida Catalán, who lost her life during UN missions in the Democratic Republic of Congo. This is a terrible tragedy. I know that the government and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs are doing everything they can to clarify what happened, to prevent it from happening again and to hold responsible. Whether it be regimes that chemical weapons bomb their own population, murderers who attack UN experts or military who engage in ethnic cleansing, Sweden will and will be there to stand up for international law and human rights and to demand responsibility for the abuses that have been committed. In conclusion, Madam President, the world is worse than ever and better than ever. Sweden makes a difference in the world. What the future looks like, no one knows, but I know one thing: If we let doomsday prophets, intolerance and fear take over, we will face a darker future. But if, instead, we lift our eyes, stand up for tolerance and refuse to give up the fight for human rights and a dignified life for all, no matter where in the world they are, we are facing a brighter future. The choice is ours.
i-83e790899e640a89-683	Madam President, I would like A nuclear-free world I think we all want, and that is of course something we should strive for. But in what way will the nuclear agreement, which the government has now signed, but we have not yet ratified, lead to a nuclear-free world when no states holding nuclear weapons sign the agreement? In what way will it lead to a nuclear - free world?
i-83e790899e640a89-684	Madam President, I would like The short answer is that it establishes standards that stigmatise and eventually reduce the use and possession of nuclear weapons and that they will eventually disappear. It's the vision, and we have visions. We don't make any decisions by just snapping our hands and seeing what happens. We have set up an investigation to look at all the consequences of signing the agreement. It is clear that we are behind a nuclear-free world, but we are going to investigate the consequences of the agreement. The question will come up again when the investigation is complete. Then we can have a longer discussion on the pros and cons of this. It is strange that Björn Söder criticizes us for falling into a mad barrel regarding the nuclear ban, when he pursues an extremist stance and does not see Israel occupying Palestine and thinks that we should move our embassy to Jerusalem. These are certainly examples of ill-considered decisions without further analysis.
i-83e790899e640a89-687	Madam President, I would like Mr Thor says that the agreement will stigmatise nuclear weapons, and I sincerely hope that nuclear weapons are stigmatised in the eyes of most people. But how did I never get a real answer? Madam President, I would like Olle Thorell says that the agreement will lead to the disappearance of nuclear weapons. But if the states with nuclear weapons refuse to sign the agreement, do not care about the agreement, the agreement will not lead anywhere. It is completely naive to think that nuclear weapons are to be disposed of by means of such a document. On the contrary, it can put a stop to what is happening in our security policy in the future. Why, then, should we sign such an agreement that might prevent the rescue of states that can help us in a future crisis situation? Globally, it won't lead anywhere? Something else is completely naive to believe. In addition, the NPT agreement is at risk.
i-83e790899e640a89-690	Madam President, I would like These are exactly the kind of consequences that the investigation is looking at. Then we'll see what it comes up with. When it comes to stigmatisation and the elimination of weapons, there are examples of how it has succeeded, for example in the case of anti-personnel mines. Not all landmine holders signed that agreement, but it has stigmatised this law of arms. Now we see how anti-personnel mines decrease in number of years by year. The same is true of chemical and biological weapons and cluster weapons. When we discussed these, I stood in the speaker's chair opposite and Carl Bildt in the speaker's chair that I now stand in, and he used exactly the same argument, that it does not matter if the major holders do not sign. But there we also see how norms are formed and how stigmatisation of weapons teams is getting stronger. Why should we not ban the worst type of weapon of all when we have banned anti-personnel mines, biological and chemical weapons and cluster weapons?
i-83e790899e640a89-694	Madam President, I would like I listened to Olle Thorell's speech in which, as Social Democrats always do, he beats his chest and says: we are in favour of a feminist foreign policy. Then we add: We are very committed to the UN Security Council. Let us then take perhaps the most prominent example of when Sweden would have acted in the UN Security Council. That was two months ago. Just before New Year's, huge protests broke out in Iran. There were 20 people killed, I think, in the course of just a few days. People stood with their veils hung on sticks. They wanted feminism. What did Sweden do? Then Sweden said: We certainly do not want this issue to be discussed in the Security Council. Sweden used its seat on the Security Council to try to stop the issue of opportunities for gender equality in Iran being placed on the Security Council agenda. Why did Sweden do that?
i-83e790899e640a89-697	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Fredrik Malm, for the opportunity, together with you, to agree with, of course, the condemnation of the abuses that are taking place in Iran against human rights, women's rights, summary executions and a judiciary that does not work in a humane and legally secure way! There is no doubt that Sweden condemns violations of human rights and women's rights. Unfortunately, I do not have an answer regarding the decision taken before the meeting that would deal with this in the Security Council. In fact, I do not know the reasoning behind this. But I am sure that we share the view that we want to get rid of the human rights violations that are taking place in Iran, regardless of which party we represent.
i-83e790899e640a89-699	Madam President, I would like The strange thing is that Sweden is campaigning to be elected to the UN Security Council, but once you sit there you use the place to try to stop other countries' work in order to put issues on the agenda that deal with gender equality and feminism. It's gonna be really weird. Sweden has become a brake block. It was the United States that demanded this meeting. Donald Trump appears more progressive for gender equality in Iran than Margot Wallström. It is incomprehensible how Sweden can use the seat of the UN Security Council to stop the brutal abuse of the Iranian population on the agenda. It's the closest thing to my mind. I find it difficult to link this to something other than that Sweden a year earlier was in Iran and soon confirmed the gender apartheid that exists in the country by parading with veils and establishing these very good relations with the regime.
i-83e790899e640a89-703	Madam President, I would like I think that the big shifts that Fredrik Malm draws on this issue fall on his own absurdity. Of course, Margot Wallström is more progressive than Donald Trump in promoting women's rights. That you're even gonna have to say it's a little silly. Again, I have no answer to the question concerning the decision for the UN Security Council meeting. I call on Fredrik Malm to put a written question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Then I'm absolutely sure he'll get a full answer to it. I would like to take this opportunity to say once again that, of course, we are using our seat on the Security Council to push, not least, the issue of women's rights worldwide, including in Iran.
i-83e790899e640a89-706	Madam President, I would like Much has been said here today. That is good, because silence is the greatest threat to peace, freedom and human rights. When the debate is silenced, when the media and general discussion are silenced, there is a crisis. Then the questions will be forgotten. That is why in my speech I am going to touch on some of the areas that have not been debated here today. As far as Ukraine is concerned, a great deal has been said. Of course, Russian aggression must stop. And I would like to touch on the OSSE here. The OSSE has an observer mission in place, and that is very good. In fact, it has helped to reduce Russian aggression. That is why Ukraine has requested an extension of the observer force. Ukraine has also asked for the observation of the observer force not only in the occupied area but also on the border with Russia. Of course, Russia does not want that. But I very much wish that Sweden can stand on the right side here and in the OSCE Assembly to press for the OSCE observers to be in place where Ukraine wishes. It is a very strong and good way to reduce Russian aggression. Only yesterday, the President of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly stated that the Assembly will work in every way possible to reduce Russian aggression, including by offering mediation at parliamentary level. Russia is showing not only its aggression against Ukraine but also against Georgia. South Ossetia and Abkhazia are two examples where Russia acts. Sweden must also act in the UN Security Council when it comes to Russian aggression against Georgia. Madam President, I would like When there are elections in Russia on 18 March, the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly will of course be there to observe the elections. Sweden has been allocated ten observer posts. In the past, we have always sent the maximum number of observers, but this year the Swedish OSCE delegation sends five parliamentarians. This is not because we cannot send more, but because it is difficult for the rest of the delegation to have time for this. Normally, the President's quota contributes. Madam President, I would like This year, for the first time, Sweden is not sending a full observer force. But there is the opportunity for the Social Democratic majority to change their minds, because the deadline for registration is Friday. Now make sure that the OSCE delegation's observer force is manned, because it is a strong and good way to work for democracy and to ensure that laws and international agreements are complied with. Let me touch on an area that we have not discussed today. The Chinese Communist regime acts in a non-democratic manner. Tibet is a country that has been hit exceptionally hard by the attacks of the Chinese regime. We all know what happened in Tibet. Monastery has been closed, and 98 percent of Tibet's monastery has been destroyed by the attacks of the Chinese Communist regime. More than 150 monks and nuns have burned themselves to death. Tibet has something that China is very interested in, namely minerals. Here China breaks, among other things, lithium and titanium. This is then found in Chinese-made phones and computers. In addition to the human perspective, I would therefore like to raise the environmental issue. Tibet is a large water reservoir for neighbouring countries. What will happen when the water in Tibet is even dirtier than today or no longer runs? China's actions to silence critics have stretched all the way to the Swedish parliament. Swedish MPs have been contacted by the Chinese Embassy to be silenced. This is a sign that it is time for the outside world to distance itself clearly from China's actions. Finally, it is easy to become pessimistic, but as has been said here before, never so many people have been able to eat enough and so many children have been able to go to school and learn to read and write as now. There is a good and positive development in the outside world, and we must strengthen it.
i-83e790899e640a89-718	Madam President, I would like In the foreign policy debate, I would like to highlight trade issues and their relation to democracy and dictatorship. Our party believes that trade policy is part of foreign policy. Two and a half years ago, the government presented its export strategy. It was a strategy that focused above all on Asia and the Middle East. This was where it was felt that companies had the most difficulty entering markets and navigating correctly while predicting that it was in these countries that growth would be highest in the coming years. At the same time, a global development policy, PGU, was launched to highlight the responsibility of companies for sustainable development in the world. One of the countries pointed out by the government was Iran, a sham democracy which is, in practice, a religious dictatorship. However, since Iran had signed the Nuclear Weapons Agreement to disarm its nuclear programme, the government now saw a good chance for Swedish companies to do business. Last February, the government sent a large business delegation under Prime Minister Lövven's and Trade Minister Linde's leadership to Iran – despite the criticism of Iran's human rights abuses, not least the right to organise itself trade unionally. Many are the union leaders who have been executed by the harsh dictatorship. Only in January did the religious leaders not listen to the people when they bloodyly and brutally knocked down a national uprising for democracy and freedom of expression. The words of the surrounding world, and especially of Sweden, therefore echo empty when they criticise Iran, for example in the case of the condemned KI researcher Ahmadreza Djalali. He has a residence permit in Sweden but was arrested last year in Iran and has now been sentenced to death. Then no visual demonstrations are enough for state visits. It doesn't save the lives of those who fight for their freedom. Another country that the government has pointed out is the island nation of the Philippines. Recently Sweden opened an embassy, and Minister of Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg was there to cut the tape. At the same time, the weapons manufacturer Saab opened an office in the same district. Democratic development in the Philippines is also worse. The war of authoritarian President Rodrigo Dutertes against drugs has reaped the lives of many innocents. He avoids any means and consistently violates human rights when he sets up death squads that kill the poor. The drug war is reported to have cost over 13,000 people their lives. Mr Dutertes's recent steps are not unexpected in restricting the freedom of the press for the media who criticise him. He is now trying to shut down their reporting. Despite this, the Swedish government is considering exporting more. Today Aftonbladet presents a review of Sweden's exports of armaments to the Philippines. Documents from the State Control Agency for Arms Exports, the Strategic Product Inspection, ISP, showing that arms exports to the Philippines were authorised for the first quarter of 2017. Recently Duterte made a statement to his army: It is a new order from the Major. We're not gonna kill you. We'll shoot you in the vagina. If they don't have a vagina, they're useless. Should feminist foreign policy have any credibility, it is now that a president is inciting violations of women to put their foot down and stop exporting weapons. The fact that Mikael Damberg's former press secretary Ann Wolger today is press manager at Saab demonstrates the need for clear and strict rules for when high political officials go to private business. There should be no turning doors between the government and the gun lobby. The crown of the work is the government's ongoing work to participate in the World Fair in Dubai 2020. The prince family of the Emirates is among the richest in the world, and its economic boost is based on unsustainable oil extraction and the exploitation of cheap labour from poor countries, who are allowed to work under disgusting conditions in the desert sun. The fact that Sweden exports arms to the United Arab Emirates despite participating in the forgotten war in Yemen makes me wonder what the state of feminist foreign policy is like. In November, Ann Linde's Secretary of State travelled to Azerbaijan with a delegation of business leaders – this despite Amnesty's, Human Rights Watch's and Transparency International's reports being dark reading and criticizing the imprisonment of political activists, the lack of independent media, the use of torture and corruption. The Swedish company Bombardier has been shaken by a legal process about suspected corruption in Azerbaijan. In the Council of Europe too, the Azerbaijan delegation has been accused of bribery and corruption. Ericsson, who is on the journey, has been associated with companies used for money laundering. Despite this, the Swedish government chose to go there. The government continues to select oily dictatorships such as Iran, the United Arab Emirates and Azerbaijan with precision. So is the government just making mistakes in its trade policy? No, there are also good examples where the government tries to marry a positive development with trade, such as the visit of the Minister of Trade to Palestine and Israel. Although there are plenty of dark clouds in the sky, a functioning trade and exports from the West Bank are crucial for a positive development in the world's oldest conflict area. To our neighbourhood: Instead of constantly focusing on the area, the government should increase its commitment and focus on the area. The fact that Norway, which together with Germany is the largest trading partner, is not identified in the export strategy is shameful. Although many Swedish companies are currently exporting to Norway, the Swedish National Board of Trade's reports show that more can be done to facilitate trade between countries. This should be the focus of the government rather than supporting countries that are dictatorships or are moving in an authoritarian direction. I hope that, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs raised in his speech, the Presidency of Nordic cooperation will be used during the year to strengthen these kinds of contacts.
i-83e790899e640a89-739	Madam President, I would like It is interesting when Svenneling says that the Swedish government has been to Iran and carried out a visit there. I have a simple question for Svenneling: Does Svenneling think that there are advantages in having contacts with a country to which criticism is made?
i-83e790899e640a89-741	Madam President, I would like My view is that trade can be used as a means of strengthening democracies, but we see that the political dogma that trade leads to democracy does not work. In his speech, my party colleague, Lotta Johnsson Fornarve, referred to China – a country with which the West has strengthened its trade for a long time, but at the same time we see that democratic development is moving in the opposite direction, with organ trafficking and increased monitoring of citizens. The same applies to Iran. You can choose to support the religious dictatorship that prevails in Iran by acting and strengthening the export opportunities of Swedish companies. As a result, Iran is given the opportunity to continue to suppress popular protests as brutally as it did in January. It is this kind of blood that you then get on your hands. I think it is shameful to be fooled by Iran, which is signing a small agreement on nuclear technology. We are so worried about nuclear weapons that we are completely losing ground in trade policy.
i-83e790899e640a89-744	Madam President, I would like Svenneling says that there are advantages to having contacts in other countries when making criticism. 8.7 kilos — that's how much the average weight of people in Venezuela has fallen over the past year. My question to Mr Svenneling is: how do you criticise your sister party in Venezuela?
i-83e790899e640a89-746	Madam President, I would like Venezuela has been up in the past in this debate. We have expressed criticism, for example, in our motion on Latin America. We do not think Venezuela has a good development. I see before me a country that has adapted to an oil economy in a way that is not sustainable in the world in which we live today. We have climate changes that are coming faster than ever, and then you need to change your economies. Venezuela has certainly not succeeded in this, but is more dependent on oil today than before it had a left-wing government. This means that I do not think Venezuela is a good example of positive development. But the question is why we should constantly run after dictatorships such as Iran, the United Arab Emirates and Azerbaijan, which are just as oily as Venezuela. But this does not seem to be a problem as long as there is a dictator there or there is a religious dictatorship. Instead, it is when it is left-wing governments that Social Democrats criticize and chase after the countries.
i-83e790899e640a89-749	Madam President, I would like I must say that I think that Håkan Svenneling's speech was, in essence, excellent. I noted for a few weeks that it was only Håkan Svenneling and myself who went out and strongly criticised the government's trade journey to Azerbaijan, for the reason that there are authoritarian regimes that are deeply corrupt, strongly state-controlled economies and so on. Trade can then rather help to strengthen the apparatus of power, not democracy. As a liberal and a supporter of free trade and a market economy, I think that we should also see this problem. My question relates to what Mr Svenneling does not mention but is perhaps most important, namely a free trade agreement between the EU and the United States. It is something completely different, but this is what the Left Party says no to. I wonder, why?
i-83e790899e640a89-752	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking Fredrik Malm for the praise. It's always nice when you get praise from a liberal – that's what you're supposed to do. Then we move on to one of my favorite issues to discuss: TTIP, the US-EU trade agreement, which is in the freezer because of Donald Trump. Fredrik Malm's colleague Cecilia Malmström has made it clear that it won't be anything as long as Trump is President of the United States. I think Trump put it there for the wrong reasons. For me, it is the cause of democracy that weighs most. The possibility for large companies to sue states, as we have seen in UN reports, mainly has companies from the United States but also from neighbouring Canada. I am proud to be a trade policy spokesperson for a party that does not just turn aside because we support a government but actually stands up when we see democracy being curtailed.
i-83e790899e640a89-755	Madam President, I would like Liberals are a free trade party. It is no coincidence that Cecilia Malmström is very committed to trade policy issues as a liberal European Commissioner. The simulations that have been made show that an ambitious and deeply bilateral free trade agreement between the European Union and the United States could increase Swedish trade with the United States – our exports of goods and services and our imports from there – by between 15 and 17%. The US and the EU are each other's biggest trading partners. I am a little surprised that the Left Party, which is clear about arms exports and other things, which is restrictive and criticises the regime in Iran and other authoritarian and undemocratic states, is at the same time such a strong opponent of free trade agreements between democracies. This surprises me a little, because it could create many new jobs and improvements.
i-83e790899e640a89-758	Madam President, I would like The economic simulations that Fredrik Malm is talking about are really only qualified guesses. This shows the research that has looked at previous simulations that have been done. But in principle he is right: It is absolutely good for Sweden if trade between the USA and Sweden increases. I have nothing against that. The problem with trade agreements such as the CETA agreement, the TTIP agreement and other trade agreements under way is that they are based on supranationality and that power is transferred from the Swedish parliament and Swedish courts to international courts where large companies have the right to sue states. There is no possibility for states to sue large companies, but simply to transfer power to large companies. It also creates a lobby system in which you can have regulatory cooperation on future rules in a way that I find frightening. I want Swedish rules to be laid down in the Swedish Parliament, but Fredrik Malm wants them to be determined by big business lobbyists. I think this is a bad development for democracy.
i-83e790899e640a89-761	Madam President, I would like I thought I'd look a little closer. Our Nordic neighbours will receive some lighting during my allotted minutes. I am a member of the Swedish Parliament's Foreign Affairs Committee, but I am also chairman of one of the committees in the Nordic Council working with growth and development. We have a fantasticly exciting mission, not only in the committee but also in the Nordic Council. It is well known to all of you that Sweden is currently also President of the Nordic Council of Ministers. I was going to read out the three headings of the programmes in the Presidency, and then I am going to focus a little bit on one of the subjects. Sweden has talked about an inclusive Nordic region, a safe and open Nordic region and an innovative and sustainable Nordic region. I thought I'd start by discussing a little about mobility. The Nordic Council is based on what we have taken for granted between us Nordic neighbours. It is about the freedom of passports and freedom of movement within the Nordic countries, which is something the EU has learned from, which is a positive thing. We see that mobility in itself provides good conditions for both spreading knowledge and having an open labour market between the Nordic countries. There are also challenges in terms of mobility, and these are the many border barriers that exist between countries, despite the fact that we have been working together for over 60 years. What are they made up of? Well, many of the neighbouring countries today have legislation that is not always applicable at the Nordic level. The Nordic Council of Ministers has added something called a Border Barriers Council. I have the privilege of being a member of it and representing the Nordic Council. There we are trying to counter border barriers. Border barriers in themselves are a threshold for the free mobility and movement that we all want to be able to have within the Nordic region. It has also created good conditions because the mandate of the Border Barriers Council has been developed and has enabled us today to remove perhaps ten or twelve border barriers per year. The Swedish Government has been extremely active in this. We're especially happy about that. One way to act to remove border barriers within the Nordic countries is for national governments to make independent decisions in each country to look over it. Can it create a border barrier in the Nordic countries when introducing new legislation? It is the same way that EU legislation is dealt with. Even those countries that are not part of the EU are a little forced to do so. This applies in particular to the EEA countries. I do not think it can be a difficulty even for the Swedish Government to create a manual that in some sense takes this into account when a new bill is introduced. There will be 200 new proposals in the coming year. Maybe the government will learn from it and start a new screening. You don't know, you see. Well, let's hope so. I have received positive signs from our Minister for the Nordic Region about this. The Nordic labour market is extremely important. It has been an important part for all northerners, not least in times of both recession and boom. We have seen labour market mobility. For example, Swedes have crossed over to Norway when we have had a little worse times and the Norwegians have had labour needs. Now we have seen that the Swedes who have been in Norway have largely returned to Sweden when we have had better times here and a better labour market. We have an immigration from Finland, which I also come from, in the 1960s and 1970s when there were tough times in Finland. This has been made possible by freedom of movement. One issue that is currently very much affected in the Nordic countries is social dumping. All the Nordic countries have different entrances to it. It is also an essential part of the internationalisation in which the Nordic countries find themselves. Social dumping is often also discussed in the Swedish arena. It is very much a question of labour market policy but also of integration. Here there is already a labour market report written by former Danish EU Commissioner Poul Nielson. It highlights the topic of how we can get decent working conditions for all workers around Sweden and the Nordic region and how we can make those entering the Nordic labour market not be exploited. We're especially happy about that. The Social Democrats in the Nordic Council have also pushed ahead with a long series of seminars to highlight the subject area last year. It has had a lot of effect and created new conditions for the talks. Then there are different governments in the Nordic countries that may have a little different approaches to the subject area. But everyone takes social dumping very seriously and wants to see new conditions so that workers are not exploited but also so that the very best conditions of competition are created around the Nordic region. That is why the Nordic Council is very interesting to work in right now. We see the opportunities for the open labour market and the opportunities for free movement and mobility that give us the opportunity to move freely as we want in the Nordic countries. This creates better conditions for access to the labour market, but also other effective and positive collaborations.
i-83e790899e640a89-776	Madam President, I would like Of Swedish development aid, 1 per mil via the Swedish National Audit Office is going to build up state audit in aid countries. The countries that are now on the list of operations are, in particular, those in the Western Balkans and East Africa. In many cases, it is young democracies who do not have the Swedish administrative tradition. The support is divided into two. It is officials from our national audit who support with methods and technology to build up the institutions. An important part of this is parliamentary support. I and a number of other members of Parliament have been present to these countries and have spoken to the committees which, like the Swedish Parliament, are to receive the work of the state audit. There are two conclusions that have been very clear. One is that the constitutions often give parliaments a fairly far-reaching power to hold their governments accountable. However, it is true for new democracies that parliaments should reach up so that they exercise the rights and obligations conferred by the Constitution. The second important conclusion is: In order to build a functioning state apparatus, it is very important that appointments are made both in the audit and in the authorities according to skill and merit. Now I want to link it up by making the transfer to Swedish foreign policy. Appointments according to merit and skill are also very important in international organisations. Therefore, Sweden should lead by example and not by generous contributions to organisations try to buy positions. We as Members of Parliament sometimes do not have to be dazzled when we are shown around in the skyscrapers in Manhattan, see exclusive offices and think: How nice that a Swede has got this position! It's like Deep Throat said in the Watergate store: Follow the money!
i-83e790899e640a89-782	Madam President, I would like In this strange country of Sweden – the most extreme of all the world's democracies, probably – a country in our Europe has recently been portrayed as evil, undemocratic and totalitarian. The fact that this country has been painted in this way by the Swedish media and the seven left-wing liberal forces in this House is not surprising. The country stands for the very opposite of what people in this House, SD's exempt of course, are and have done with this country. It stands for common sense, the preservation of its own culture and its own people and the protection of Europe's borders. The country has stood up despite attacks by the EU and the US. It has stood up in spite of extensive campaigns from so-called NGOs with multi-billionaire Soros at the head. The funny thing is that you are going to the ceiling when some countries are accused of interfering in the American or, for that matter, the Swedish elections. But you are delighted when the United States or Soros try to interfere in the elections in the country I am talking about. It is hypocrisy at a high level. Rather than yielding, it has been strengthened in its conviction to protect its country and its Europe. It was this proud country which stood up against the attempts of the Ottomans to submit to Europe and which, despite occupation, stood up against the atrocities of communism. Now it's standing up for all of us. Of course I am talking about Hungary. That is why, Madam President, I would like to express my thanks to the leading state leader in the world right now: Mr Orbán Viktor miniszterelnök úr, köszönöm szépen hogy kiáll Európáért! Madam President, I would like What I just said, probably in terrible Hungarian, is: Honored Minister Viktor Orbán, many thanks for standing up for Europe! So what are you doing in this House and the other liberals around Europe when a country dares to break free from the left-wing liberal yoke that has destroyed so many countries? You're attacking it, of course. You demonize it and impose it on your values that have already demonstrably failed. You are making a series of accusations, often with very little substance, which you in vague terms and with the help of the media are targeting Hungary. You accuse Hungary of non-governmental organisations there having to report foreign contributions, but you are eager that parties in Sweden should do the same. You do not see the hypocrisy in this. You complain about the law on higher education in Hungary with the argument that it was impossible for the far left American university of the CEU to meet the deadline. But another American university, McDaniel College, had no problem adapting to the new rules. Nevertheless, Hungary extended the deadline, and how did the charges sound? Well, then there was a complaint that the legal uncertainty took too long. There are two universities involved, but we only hear about one, the CEU. It is this university, financed by George Soros, which is the heaviest institution of the Left, that is to say the socialists and liberals, in the spread of globalism, cultural radicalism and left-wing politics in central and eastern Europe. You believe that Hungary's now a number of years old media law undermines freedom of the press, but you never manage to highlight any example of this or of the fact that the law is in harmony with the European Union, if that is important. Criticism of the reformed electoral system also came, of course, despite the shortcomings of Hungary's old system from the Communist era. The deficiencies were revealed in 2005, not by the Orbán government, but by a court during the time of the socialist government. But, of course, the Socialist Government did nothing about it. It was only when Orbán gained power that a system that did not give equal voice value to the people was changed. You criticised the reduced retirement age for judges, who were a temporary law. And why did you do it? Do you want the judges appointed by the Communist junta to be allowed to continue to have influence over the country that broke free from communism? Maybe so, unfortunately. The fact is that your criticism is not so much due to the issues at stake but to the fact that Hungary, thankfully, has chosen a different path from the left-wing liberal mass immigration path that Western Europe has chosen. An MEP, Manfred Weber, said straight out about a survey that Hungary sent to its people: this survey in Hungary is not a collection of arguments and opinions; it is about creating resistance to the EU. We do not tolerate this happening. This is the core of the matter. You left-wing liberals have invited an invasion of our Western European countries and an occupation of parts of this country. With your ideas and passivity, you allowed, for example, the terrorist act on Drottninggatan to take place. The victims would have been alive if you'd listened to us. You let the Ikea murders happen. The perpetrator should not have been out on Swedish streets at all. You let him in, and you let him out. You cannot blame ignorance, because I and others from my party were here to point this out to you. All this and much more stands as a direct consequence of your policies. You have blood on your hands. You have destroyed half a continent, and history will judge you harshly for this. Instead of making accusations against one of the few countries in Europe that are doing something right, you should learn from Hungary, even if no country is, of course, flawless. Madam President, I would like So I think it is appropriate to thank Victor Orbán and thank Hungary for the courage and courage to do what is right for their country and for Europe.
i-83e790899e640a89-797	Madam President, I would like Trade is one of the most important cornerstones of what we daily call foreign policy. But trade can take place in many different ways. I intend to use this opportunity to talk about free trade in connection with the WTO and its ministerial meeting in Buenos Aires in December, two months ago. My ambition is in no way that it should be comprehensive, but I hope that I can give a picture of what the WTO Parliamentary Conference did and tried to contribute. Madam President, I would like So I would like to start by talking about the WTO. It is the abbreviation used most of the time and that stands for the World Trade Organisation – in the Swedish World Trade Organisation. It is an organisation with three basic tasks: to try to achieve freer world trade through negotiations between Member States, to create a regulatory framework for trade and to maintain processes for resolving trade disputes impartially and objectively. Madam President, I would like When we read about the WTO, it is primarily about negotiations between Member States, and then when they do not result in new agreements. The other two parts, which are very important, work well. But these too have begun to be called into question on unclear grounds by individual countries. Turning to what happened in Buenos Aires, I can begin by saying that expectations for this meeting were low. There were those who said that if we do not get any deterioration, it must be regarded as a success. It's a boring but understandable entrance, I think. It is boring because, with such a low objective, ambitions are reduced from the very beginning. It is understandable because we all knew that the United States would not participate to a great extent in a positive outcome. On the contrary, most people feared. Madam President, I would like Before the meeting, we parliamentarians had a two-day pre-meeting with more than 350 parliamentarians from all over the world. It was a pre-meeting which, after long and detailed discussions, reached 19 points that we thought the WTO Ministerial Conference could use and take into account in order to make progress in its negotiations. The proposals included issues relating to the WTO organisation and how the procedure could be improved in order to go further in the negotiations. There were also, of course, proposals for what decisions the ministers should take on various issues. These proposals were then submitted to representatives of the WTO. Madam President, I would like These 19 points do not claim to solve all that needs to be resolved and developed within the framework of WTO cooperation. But if the Ministerial Conference had decided to follow them, it would have gone a long way further in Buenos Aires than it did. We parliamentarians show that there is a commitment among us to free trade and foreign policy. We want governments to take this on board and use it as an example in their own continued work within the WTO. Madam President, I would like The work of the WTO must continue, because development does not stop. Instead, countries solve their trade in agreements directly between countries or unions. As a result, those countries most in need of regulated trade may be left out and lag behind.
i-83e790899e640a89-806	Madam President, I would like Today, the world situation and its challenges have been highlighted in many ways. That is why I want to focus on the Western Balkans as an important geographical area. The strategic location of the area has always been of great interest to major powers. It was the dividing line between western and eastern Rome during the high Middle Ages, the border between Habsburg and the Ottoman Empire and then a tray during the Cold War between West and East. The Balkan peoples have a long and complicated history. Yugoslavia's dissolution and civil war in the middle of Europe were traumatic experiences. The abandonment of communist and socialist traditions has taken its time. Today we have the independent states of Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Serbia, Montenegro, Kosovo and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Some of these are now NATO and EU members and firmly anchored in the West, as are the neighbours Romania and Bulgaria in the Western Balkans. But the interests of the EU on the one hand and Russia on the other, through their energy projects, among others, and Turkey, on the other, are clearly reminded. It is a fact, Madam President, that there are also different ambitions and historical links within the European Union. However, it is welcome that since last week the EU has a new strategy for the Western Balkans. In addition, the United States has had some interests, albeit at a margin with regard to the European Union. The focus has so far been more on peace promotion and links with NATO. To the equation we can also add China and China's investments in the form of the Belt and Road initiative these days. It is primarily an infrastructure and trade network, but it turns out that it also gives China market access and a security policy influence in this area. China's influence in the EU has been strengthened by investments in, for example, Greece. It is a fact that many Western Balkan countries welcome Chinese investment and sometimes prefer it to the EU's commitment. Turkey has always been present in the region. Russia's annexation of Crimea and the continuing war in eastern Ukraine is rightly a continuing important issue. At the same time, however, it is unwise to turn a blind eye to both the challenges and the opportunities of the Western Balkans. In many ways we need to secure peace and our interests. If we look primarily at Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Montenegro and some other countries in the region, we can see that together they make up 18 million people. It is on a level with Chile, the Netherlands or Kazakhstan. Economically, they have a nominal aggregate bnp of 99 billion dollars, i.e. the same size as in Ukraine or Slovakia. To the surface we are talking about 208 000 square kilometres, that is, like Belarus, Uruguay or half of Sweden. In other words, it is a decent market and manageable quantities. The most important thing is that the Western Balkans do not fail. It must not become a sphere of influence for Russia, Turkey or China. It is a tragic fact that trends in human rights, freedom of the press and political liberalism and tolerance, not to mention corruption, are going in the wrong direction in Russia, Turkey and China. Unfortunately, they have bad relations with many of their neighbours, much because of their own ambitions. It is not for nothing that the United States' new national security strategy and the Pentagon's new National Defense Strategy point out China and Russia as the primary threats. Madam President, I would like The Western Balkans is a multicultural region, just like the rest of Europe. And there are many challenges with corruption, illegal trade, intolerance and historical tensions and wrongs. We need to think long-term and engage strategically. The countries of the Western Balkans are a geographical parallel within the NATO and EU area. If they are exploited by external or corrupt forces, the problems of the Western Balkans will become even more clearly the problems of the EU and NATO, and therefore Sweden's problems. We should therefore step up our efforts and focus more on support for development in these countries. The most strategic we can invest in is education, digitalisation and the judiciary. We need to trade with and integrate the countries and make them grow economically. They need to know that there is a future in Europe where the good forces are. In the past, we heard the Minister for Foreign Affairs calling for proposals for concrete foreign policy. Here are some from my side: Sweden should upgrade its role directly or indirectly through strategic support and active influence in Brussels. For example, effective use can be made of the SEK 8 billion allocated by the government for the period 2014-2020. A concrete action plan should be drawn up in cooperation with countries in the region which propose activities aimed at overcoming and improving relations between the countries of the Western Balkans. This initiative should be taken from Sweden to create an analysis group in the Western Balkans in cooperation with the countries there and with the participation of the United States and several EU countries to deal with the very risks I have referred to in the past.
i-83e790899e640a89-821	Madam President, I would like Contributing to development and poverty reduction and promoting human rights are deeply rooted in Sweden, and that is something we should be proud of. Every year the big money is invested in the development budget, and the Swedish Democrats spend 250 million more than the government on actual aid after settlements. However, there are significant improvements to be made in the priority given to aid. Although media coverage is not as intense as during the refugee crisis in 2015, there are still several crises around the world. Major violations and violence in the state of Rakhine, Myanmar, have forced 620,000 Rohingyers to flee to Bangladesh since August 2017. They live there in miserable conditions and are still lacking sufficient resources. In South Sudan, one of the world's poorest countries, Africa's biggest refugee crisis is taking place. In Yemen, 2 million people have fled from bomb attacks and air strikes. This is one of the world's largest, most acute and perhaps most forgotten crises. In Syria, over half the population have fled the country. Although it has calmed down in parts of the country, most of it is in ruins, and people are in need of humanitarian aid and help to return. Therefore, in addition to general humanitarian aid, Sweden's democrats want to spend 10 billion of the aid budget on international refugee aid in the neighbourhoods of various crises where aid is most needed – both in terms of pure humanitarian intervention and longer-term actions such as education for both children and adults, infrastructure in recipient countries and job creation measures. This can help far more people than today's migration policy in Sweden can do. Madam President, I would like In September, I was privileged to go to the UN in New York and be there during the general debate. There were many interesting seminars going on. One of them was about how to develop products for malnourished children through the local population. During that seminar, one of the lecturers said that you can fix roads and houses and that most things can be repaired, but if a child's brain is damaged by malnutrition, it can never be repaired. That is why I think it is extremely important to invest resources in the famine in southern Africa as well. In addition to current humanitarian aid, the Swedish Democrats want to invest SEK 1.4 billion in interventions in starving parts of Africa. Any effort that can save children's lives and contribute to normal development is important. This should be a higher priority in today's aid. Madam President, I would like For thousands of years minorities in Iraq, including Christians, have inhabited the plain of Nineves in the ancient Assyrian Empire. In recent years, the number of residents in the area has decreased drastically. The Islamic Taten expelled or murdered a large number of people. They took over their assets and destroyed their houses, churches and infrastructure. Thousands of years old and priceless cultural treasures were destroyed. The IS terrorist organization has now been expelled from the area, but most of it is in ruins. Nevertheless, many people want to move back to their homes and try to build a life again. Houses, churches, hospitals, schools, roads, electricity and most of the infrastructure need to be rebuilt. Far too little is being done here, and the government should support the minorities who live in the Nineves plain to maintain their identity, promote increased self-government and contribute to the reconstruction of the terrible ravages of Islamists. Precisely creating the conditions for reconstruction in a country that has been affected by war is something the Swedish Democrats want to prioritise even more in aid. We believe that aid can also contribute more to voluntary return. Many people want to return when the security situation allows but do not have the economic opportunity. With the right support, remigrants can contribute to, for example, the start-up of businesses and welfare or other important actions. Without support for reconstruction after a war, the risk of new conflicts flares up. However, the Government prioritises other things in its development budget, including a strategy up to 2019 for Palestine of SEK 11⁄2 billion. Parts go to the Palestinian Authority which encourages and rewards terrorism and spreads anti-Semitism, which shows that the government has no credibility in setting its foot against terrorism and anti-Semitism. As has been mentioned today, Amnesty has recently produced a report showing that the Palestinian Authority has committed serious violations of freedom of expression. It's about arrests, violence and confiscated equipment. Hamas has caught and tortured an activist because he has criticised the electricity crisis in a social media post. For a long time, the Swedish Democrats were the only party to exercise about and year after year complained about the problems, without anyone else in the committee wanting to acknowledge them. Instead, they voted down our reservations. Recently, more parties have finally woken up and started to see the problems. This also applies to other problems in society that SD has been pointing out for a long time. Since it is now popular to adopt the policy of the Swedish Democrats, I hope that more parties will adopt our development policy, so that we can make it a reality and improve the situation of many people in the world and stop aid that is purely harmful.
i-83e790899e640a89-838	Madam President, I would like Throughout Ethiopia millions and millions of people tie their hands. They cross their hands in the way that I now show to the Members of this House to demonstrate for democracy, freedom, justice and, above all, their fundamental democratic and human rights. The Ethiopian regime has shown a stubborn repression of its citizens. During December, January and February, hundreds of people have been killed. It is not just the killing of its own population that is taking place. A lot of people disappear, too. Some of them end up in infamous prisons. We should think of them as prisoners of conscience. That is why we cannot be silent when this is happening either. Madam President, I would like I will now read out the names of nine politicians, seven journalists and ten human rights activists: Andargachew Tsige, Yonatahn Tesfaye, Tefera Mamo, Asaminew Tsige, Demeke Zewdu, Emawayesh Alemu, Andualem Arage, Kenfe Michael Debebe, Dejene Tafa, Dejene Nega, Woubshet Kenfe, Eskinder Teshome, Mamuye Kidane, Zerhiun Taye, Solomon Teshome, Liban Ittana, Ahmedin Jebel, Ahmed Mustafa, Sena Solomon, Dirribine Ittana, Demeke Zewdu, Liban Warioa, Kedir Shakur Music, Mesfin Abebe, Gebreyesus Kidane and Zerhiun Gebregziabher. They are being imprisoned on unjust grounds. They are brave people who have devoted evenings, weekends, days and nights to making Ethiopia a better country to live in and thus to make the world something more democratic. These people are allowed to represent all the other thousands who are imprisoned in Ethiopian prisons and whose only crime is that they have demanded democracy and human rights. Ethiopia today has a very unjust policy. The regime in Ethiopia claims to be prepared to release some of these prisoners if they sign a paper stating that they are terrorists. Our message to the Ethiopian regime is clear: let go of the political prisoners, without calling for them to sign papers where they have to admit one more than the other! These people and those who are struggling with them, in Sweden and in other parts of the world but above all in Ethiopia, should know that although the Ethiopian regime has silenced them at the moment, we are ensuring that their voices continue to be heard. We are also fighting for their voices to be heard soon. These are important voices in Ethiopia. It's everyone's responsibility. Ethiopia may fall apart one day. Then responsibility rests heavily on the ruling party, the TPLF. According to the Ethiopian State Television yesterday, major demonstrations and general strike are currently taking place in Addis Abeba. The transport sector and industry are completely crippled at the moment. A collapsed state in Ethiopia could mean further lawlessness and civil war on an already turbulent and fragmented Horn of Africa, and it will cause millions of people to flee. It should be seen as a security risk for both Sweden and Europe. The way forward would, for example, be to support democratic groups working for a peaceful solution, such as the Ethiopian National Movement, which promotes inclusive political order in the country. If we do not act now, it may soon be too late. I have one final call for the Ethiopian Government to replace the ballots with the balloons! Replace bullets with ballots! The freedom of all peoples, the peace of the whole world!
i-83e790899e640a89-847	Madam President, I would like Kofi Annan is said to have said at some point: Safety is like air. When you do, you don't think about it. But as soon as it goes away, there's nothing else you'd rather have and want back. That is probably why all of us in this House, regardless of party colour, are trying to understand and prepare for a world that has become significantly more unpredictable and just uncertain, in a way that few of us believed about five years ago. Not since the end of the Cold War have security problems for Sweden and Europe been as many and difficult as they are right now. Europe is surrounded by wildfire of conflicts, from the Mediterranean to the south through the Middle East and the Caucasus to Donbass in the east and up to the Arctic Ocean in the north. We also see a Europe in which Russia uses military force to redraw the European borders and in other cases in the twilight country between total peace and total war through various hybrid methods. If Sweden really wants to strengthen security in Europe, we need to do so together with others, mainly within the EU and with NATO. It is therefore good for Sweden that the uncertainty regarding NATO and the future of the EU has decreased over the past year. President Trump has at times expressed his capriciousness about American involvement in NATO. However, over the past year the Pentagon has actually tripled its support for European security, through what is called the European Deterrence Initiative. The US military presence on the European continent has increased, and it is good for peace in Europe. Efforts to strengthen NATO's presence in the Baltic countries and Poland have gone faster than expected. There is now an international combat group in all those countries. Whether Sweden is a member of NATO or a partner of NATO, it is of central Swedish security interest that NATO is and remains strong and credible. Cohesion within the EU has also been strengthened in the last year, despite or perhaps even thanks to Brexit. The claim that Brexit would be infected has been put to shame. The EU has managed to maintain a united line on sanctions against Russia for four consecutive years due to the illegal annexation of Crimea. That is important progress. The EU's defence policy has made more progress in the last ten months than has been achieved in the last ten years. In this area, new collaborations are emerging in defence research, defence industry and joint procurement of defence equipment. Madam President, I would like In other words, the EU's defence cooperation is in a very malleable period. Properly designed, this cooperation can strengthen the EU's ability to take greater responsibility for international peace and security. Unfortunately, however, the government has often backed up in this cooperation. It has been held back and criticised when new proposals have come up under the EU's defence policy. This is unfortunate, because there are conditions for Sweden to play a more central role in that policy area. Sweden is the only country in the EU to have participated in all EU crisis management operations over the last decade. We have strong defence authorities such as FOI and FMV, which have international reputation. And we are one of a handful of countries in the world that can build combat aircraft, submarines and surface combat vessels as well as combat vehicles. This shall give the currency of influence at the negotiating table. But if Sweden is really to shape the EU's defence cooperation, it also requires us to be constructive and capable of action, to have the ability to build political alliances with important countries within the EU and, above all, to know what we want to achieve with the EU's defence cooperation. In fact, here I think the government is guilty of the answer. The cyber world knows no boundaries, and geographical distances do not matter in this domain. There is therefore a need for stronger international cooperation in this area. During the beginning of 2017, we learned that the US presidential election had been subjected to serious cyber-infringement from Russia. Later in the same year we also saw Russian information operations aimed at the French, German and Italian elections. This is nothing more than an attack directly on the heart of European democracy. It would be inconspicuous to assume that the Swedish elections in September would be closed from this type of operation. Both the EU and NATO are working to respond to misinformation and propaganda through various forms of centres. Sweden should work to deepen cooperation between the EU and NATO in this area and continue to have Swedish staff in both EU and NATO centres working to combat misinformation and propaganda. Finally, Madam President, it is only with other countries that we can also influence huge companies such as Facebook, Twitter and Google to assume their responsibilities when these platform economies become tools for spreading misinformation, false news and propaganda. The EU has done so successfully in getting these companies to fight online hate crime. However, much remains to be done to strengthen information security linked to free and universal elections in Europe.
i-83e790899e640a89-864	Madam President, I would like During today's debate, we have heard many testimonies from various journeys, and I was going to continue on the trail. However, my journey does not involve air travel, no airport use, and no regular queues for passport controls. My foreign policy contribution to this debate will take its start in Maunu, where you will travel on the northernmost public road in Sweden. Maunu is located in the part of the world that is sometimes referred to as the Arctic. We have become accustomed to hearing about starving polar bears, shrinking ice caps and higher temperatures as soon as the word Arctic is mentioned. Madam President, I would like This summer, I'm 33 years old. During my childhood, spring winters have been spent in Maunu. I remember cold, clear nights with the northern lights playing across the sky. I remember visits to outhouses that didn't last very long – out of pure self-preservation. I remember days outdoors with snow, sun and t-shirts. Spring winters were longer then. The nights were colder and the ice could travel for a longer part of the year. I realize that the memories of my nephews today will also mark a different reality from the one they face when they turn 33. Climate change is here now. The crisis politicians talked about long before I even became a member of a political party is here now. The temperature changes are here now. I am a witness to the changes that have taken place. Also, listen to the reindeer keepers, tourist companies and the ice fish! Examine the forecasts for the global seed layer on Svalbard and watch instagram updates by Paul Nicklen! Madam President, I would like The changes are here now. We regret that previous generations have not done more, but that is not helping us today. Today we must do what we can do today. We have the opportunity, the obligation, but also no other choice. For me, it's about skiing days in the sun and access to dried reindeer meat – a culture that risks being decimated. For another, it's about the whole community being washed away. For residents in Longyearbyen it is about no longer arming themselves in expeditions, because the polar bears are no longer a threat or even a reality. Madam President, I would like Society can change, and that is why we are all here today. We have a drive to do just that. I want to continue skiing and I want to be met by armed tour guides at Svalbard. The changes are here and now, and we have no choice but to take them seriously.
i-83e790899e640a89-873	Madam President, I would like 65 million people on the run. Conflicts and oppression must be brought to an end. Cooperation and open society. No to NATO. Against nuclear weapons. Yes to multilateralism. Women are needed for a more peaceful world. That is how we Social Democrats want to face the future – this was in headline form, Madam President. Sweden's voice is needed in the world for democracy, for gender equality and for our aid amounting to 1% of our gross national income. Our constant presence is our strength. The fact that the Foreign Minister is pushing and lifting feminist foreign policy is crucial. The fact that women are overlooked in terms of resources, representation and rights can never be stressed enough. It has to change. We can now see the result of progress being made when women sit at the negotiating table in peace negotiations. So our Foreign Minister and the rest of us continue along that path. Madam President, I would like My next question I would like to address is actually about the Arctic and Arctic Forum. In 2017, the European Commission conducted a consultation process to deepen the policy adopted in 2016. The next step in the development of the EU's Arctic policy is to establish and finance an annual Arctic forum with EU institutions, Member States, Arctic states and regions, indigenous peoples and business representatives. The aim is to improve the efficiency, coherence and usefulness of the EU's efforts to develop the European Arctic. Sustainable development, innovation, growth, employment and, above all, EU regional policy will be the focus. It is through these tools that the EU gains legitimacy and can contribute to the sustainable development of the Arctic. I hope now that our Foreign Minister is prepared to push the issue of this Arctic Forum being located in northern Sweden, where Arcum is an important research environment. I have gone from the big to the bigger, that is, to the Arctic issue.
i-83e790899e640a89-882	Madam President, I would like I have followed the foreign policy debate today, and it has been very interesting. The Swedish Government's foreign policy has not in all respects been clear in recent times. It was perhaps most obvious in January in Sälen. The Minister for Foreign Affairs had an idea of the security policy and the work of the Defence Committee. The Prime Minister had a different view, and the Minister for Defence had a third view. It was even the case that the Foreign Minister called the members of the important Defence Committee you in that group. In this way she sawed the whole content, the ideas and the formulations. On the other hand, I am pleased that the Foreign Minister was very clear today about the criticism of Russia for their aggression in Ukraine and their illegal annexation of Crimea. Perhaps I lacked some criticism of the Russian regime's repression of its own population – against the civilian population, civil society organisations, the political opposition, LGBTI activists and others. I think it is important that we are clear here. But I am quite sure that we are not really far apart on this issue, but that we all condemn it. Something that was missing from the foreign declaration for the first time in a very long time, I think, was the expression that the Eastern Partnership is an important part that Sweden should not just follow. It is an initiative taken by the then Foreign Minister Carl Bildt in Sweden and Radek Sikorski in Poland, which focuses on these issues and this region. One country that was not mentioned at all in today's foreign policy declaration, not in a single word, was Belarus, Europe's last dictatorship, a country where the people – the opposition, freedom defenders and others – have their human rights violated every day. This is a step in the wrong direction by the government, and I hope that it will turn back and highlight these issues more clearly. Today, only the Eastern Partnership was mentioned in a small recital throughout the document. I think that's serious. Furthermore, there was no mention of the increasing and escalating democratic collapse in another undemocratic country, Azerbaijan. I think it is important that Sweden is united very clearly against regimes such as the Lukashenko regime in Belarus and the Aliyev regime in Azerbaijan. The Alliance and the Social Democrats tend to have a fairly clear common position on many of these issues, but it also matters where the emphasis is placed and where the focus is. I hope that the Foreign Minister will show even more clearly his support for freedom defenders in these countries and clearly condemn the regimes of Belarus and Azerbaijan as well as other countries in which the population is oppressed.
i-83e790899e640a89-888	Madam President, I would like Everyone here agrees on the importance of security. There's been talk about it all day. Many have stressed the importance of military security. That is why I think it would be good to conclude the debate by talking about the basis for meeting threats. The risk of being invaded by climate change and the threats from them are greater than the threats of being invaded by foreign armies. But it doesn't matter which of these threats to respond to. The tactics are always the same: you build a resilience to the threats. Military is not the first line of defense, but the last. All security begins by building a society that is durable and safe. There's no point in defending our country if we train to bomb the liquid so we don't have any drinking water. The liquid should be worth defending. There is no point in defending a country if we destroy it ourselves with pollution and huge social divides that break the country from within. A country must stay together socially and ecologically and be economically sustainable. That's why we need local food processing. We're gonna have solar cells on every roof, not a nuclear power plant that can be decommissioned. We should not have a basement in Norrköping as if it were flooded to knock out the train traffic on the entire Southern Main Line for several days. You have to build in opportunities to make society work when the smartphone stops working. The same applies globally. We must have civilian intervention forces, which the EU already decided in 1999 to build, which we have not yet done. The first line of defense for peace is the Swedish bureaucrat, not the soldier. That is what we need to send out around the world: a food technology that ensures that food is not destroyed and prevents famine and riots, a tax technology that ensures that the ruler does not get all the money from the people without being distributed and creating equality and welfare, a judge who helps a country to build up a judiciary, so that people can feel safe and do not have to take arms in hand to get what they need. It's the first line of defense. And we're not alone. Albert Einstein Institution in the United States and Gene Sharp – they have all come with the means to build peace. I want to see the European peace forces, and I want to see Sweden first and foremost. If you practice boxing, you get good at boxing. But if you practice yoga or jujutsu you manage to avoid an attack, to prevent an attack and to get people to think about something other than an attack. We need to get better at jujutsu and yoga in foreign policy. Finally, we must talk about nuclear weapons. A democratic state cannot have nuclear weapons. In all other wars in history, rulers have had to be afraid that the soldiers will rebel. If they're given insane orders, they'll finally say no. It will be impossible to continue a war when the suffering of the people becomes too great and you refuse to obey orders. But with nuclear weapons there is no such possibility. In a few minutes, a few men will decide that millions of others will die, and no one else will be able to react. You don't have time to check the information. There is a crime of international law that is historic without anyone being able to stop it. We're gonna get rid of nuclear weapons!
