i-f2a285f473cb94d1-0	Madam President, I would like Let me take this opportunity to remind you this day of the solemnity that took place in the Swedish Parliament just 100 years ago, when the two Parliaments of the time decided on universal and equal suffrage in Sweden. It is a great day for us today, and I would like to draw attention to it. Madam President, I would like At the end of last week, EU leaders met for this year's last summit. Several issues were on the agenda, but the two days were once again dominated by Brexit. However, the meeting began with a discussion on the negotiations on the EU's long-term budget. As I reported in the EU Council for the meeting, the negotiations are still in an initial phase, and there are no figures on the table. It was an opportunity for the Heads of State or Government to set out their own priorities in this area. I stressed that Sweden wants to see a modern and fair budget that is suited to an EU without Britain, where the Swedish levy is kept down and where it must cost Member States not to take responsibility for the EU's common values and decisions. As regards the timetable for negotiations, we agreed on the objective of being able to complete them during the Finnish Presidency next autumn. That is a reasonable objective, but, as I have said before, we should not commit ourselves at an absolute date. The most important thing is still the quality of the final result. Madam President, I would like We also dealt with some foreign policy issues. We first had a preparatory discussion for the forthcoming EU-Arab League Summit in February. The discussion in the foreign policy area was then marked by Russia's actions in Ukraine. We agreed that economic sanctions against Russia should be extended. This is important. The EU's strength lies in our ability to show unity and take joint action against Russia's actions. On my proposal, the six Nordic-Baltic countries took up together and stressed that Russian action is a violation of international law and that Russia must be called upon to release immediately the Ukrainian vessels and their crews. It is gratifying that EU leaders were able to support this message at the meeting. Madam President, I would like With regard to Brexit, Prime Minister May was given the opportunity to present his views on the situation of Britain's withdrawal from the EU on Thursday evening. It is clear that the main problem still concerns the issue of the reserve solution in order to avoid border controls between Northern Ireland and the rest of Great Britain. Theresa May now sought further assurances from the EU on this. After Prime Minister Mays's presentation, we went on to discuss in the circle of the 27 other Member States how the EU should behave in this situation. We were able to confirm that we were united behind the withdrawal agreement agreed between the European Council and the British Government. Under the circumstances, this agreement is the best possible one. At the same time, it was clear that there is a will to do what we can without renegotiating the agreement to make it easier for the British side to get it approved in the House of Commons. We were therefore able to agree on a statement that makes it clear that the intention is for the new relationship between the EU and the UK to make a reserve solution superfluous. Now remains to be seen how the British Government is taking this forward. Madam President, I would like On Friday, the European Council dealt with the remaining items on the agenda. Austrian Chancellor Kurz reported on the state of play of the negotiations on the various legal acts in the area of migration. Although progress has been made in some areas, it is clear that more needs to be done, especially when it comes to the issue of the redistribution of asylum seekers. There is still a great deal of disagreement between the Member States and, as expected, there was no success at the meeting. I stressed from the Swedish side that we need to see this as a whole. More cooperation is needed to ensure that fewer are forced to flee, to strengthen the external borders of the EU and to have an internal system that works. There will still be people who have asylum reasons and who will come to Europe. They will be received and distributed fairly here. We must not forget the humanitarian aspects when dealing with migration issues. It is about the lives and protection needs of vulnerable people. Although work on the internal system in particular is slow, we must continue to work purposefully to achieve a good result. Madam President, I would like We also followed up the work on the internal market. It is good that the European Council is now giving a clear signal of the importance of continuing to develop it. Another important issue on the agenda was the climate. In parallel with the European Council, the UN Annual Climate Change Meeting COP 24 was held in Katowice, Poland. Climate is a matter of destiny. All countries must do their utmost to reduce emissions. In this context, the Commission's proposals for a long-term climate strategy for the EU are expected to play a major role. The strategy paves the way for the EU to have no net emissions by 2050. As you know, this is a goal that Sweden intends to achieve by 2045. The value of leading in climate work should not be underestimated. We agreed that the Spring European Council will set general objectives for further work. Madam President, I would like Finally, the President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, had invited an enlarged Euro Summit, in which Sweden also participated. It discussed the Banking Union and reforms of the euro area crisis fund, the European Stability Mechanism. It was agreed to give the Eurogroup a first mandate to start work on new budgetary instruments for the euro area. It is good that participation in these meetings also includes those countries that do not have the euro as their currency; this is something that we have worked for. A well-functioning EMU is also important for Sweden. This, Madam President, was the report back from the meeting.
i-CF7ryEmm5wr1CW5BH3bFgB	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for reporting back! As usual, there were many important issues on the agenda of the European Council. Unfortunately, as the Prime Minister referred to, it became clear that EU countries find it difficult to agree more and better common migration policies. This undeniably shows that Sweden cannot wait for the EU to solve our problems in this area and that further reforms here at home are necessary for a long-term sustainable migration policy. The issue I would like to dwell on with regard to reporting back is the long-term budget. It is important, especially for Sweden, because we need to ensure that there is budgetary constraint. This affects the Swedish membership fee, and we have a strong Swedish interest in improving the content of the budget. We and the government agree on the overall objectives with a tight and reduced budget. In general, we are moderates and the government also agrees on the priorities. I've been trying to pick up a little bit about the news reports before and after this meeting. Among other things, on one occasion Jean-Claude-Claude Juncker claimed that the leaders agreed on the priorities. Then I have been able to read in the Council conclusions that we should move forward and develop guidance for the next stage of the negotiations. Then we heard the Prime Minister tell us that he highlighted the Swedish priorities, and we agree on them, as I said. But the Prime Minister can develop what in the Swedish priorities he highlighted and if there are more countries that share our priorities.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-15	Madam President, I would like I share the view that it seems very difficult when it comes to migration policy. But let us not forget that progress is still being made on a number of legislative acts. They are not ready, but progress is being made. This will be important for future Swedish legislation. Nevertheless, I think it is worth pointing out. As I said, budget work is in an initial phase. The Austrian Presidency has handled this issue well and has taken it forward. There, in a process until now with a number of like-mind countries, Sweden has put forward exactly what we agree on here in Sweden, not least that we should have a modern budget that more reflects the future, such as investment in innovation, competitiveness, artificial intelligence and so on, and that we also really take into account that it is actually a Member State less. This will mean less resources, and we do not intend to increase the Swedish membership fee. There we are somewhere. There is a rough sketch where you go through a number of areas and have a number of options if you are going to do this or so in these areas. At this stage it is a very rough sketch, and there is no clear priority. On the other hand, this further process will lead further. The intention is that this spring we will hopefully come up with a framework for what it is all about. Several had this type of speech that we had to set a framework for how much we can afford and principles for the different areas, so that later in the autumn we could fill this with details. So we are far from any kind of detailed discussion. But of course we express and represent the Swedish priorities. And there are several countries that have views similar to those of Sweden.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-18	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. A rough sketch, is that what we agree on when some say that the leaders agree on the priorities? Maybe it is. I understand that you're in an introduction. On the other hand, it is quite a short time left until autumn. But, as I said, me and the Moderates share the government's priorities and believe that the focus must be on what brings added value. We must prioritise and strengthen cooperation in the areas of security, the environment, climate, trade and research – just as the Prime Minister points out. I would like to highlight the detail that the government has highlighted the social pillar during this term of office, and we from the Moderates have been critical of that. Several reports also show that the European Commission justifies budget increases by that very fact. I wonder, then, how does it affect the government's negotiating line of saying that it wants to reduce the budget while at the same time talking about spending on the social pillar for an increase in the budget?
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-21	Madam President, I would like It is linked to the second discussion that is taking place, on whether or not we should continue to reduce agricultural policy. The pot must be less total if a Member State disappears. Then you have to take it into account. If you want to make more of something, you have to make less of something else. That is what we are bringing forward. There are elements in today's budget where we believe that there is not enough pressure to strengthen Europe's competitiveness and really take the lead, for example, in the field of artificial intelligence, where the USA, China and others are far ahead of us. This is therefore simply a question of re-prioritising, and that is what we are putting forward in these contexts.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-22	Madam President, I would like I was going to ask my question in the form of a gift tip, and I hope it goes well. I have here a book called Refuge, written by Alexander Betts and Paul Collier. Betts is Professor of Forced Migration and International Affairs at Oxford University. He is also one of the world's leading experts on migration. A large part of this book is an impact assessment of the common asylum system, which was highlighted by the Prime Minister at the summit. According to the book, the Common Asylum System has helped to bring benefits to the African upper class at the expense of the poor by providing residence permits to people who can afford irregular journeys, it has called for life-threatening boat trips and caused a large number of fatal accidents, it has funded the criminal syndicates that control human trafficking, it has increased the value of Syrian passports – which the Syrian regime sells at its embassies – and thus financed Bashar al-Assad's war machine, it risks exacerbating the use of violence against civilians in Syria, as al-Asad-Assad is keen to clear the country from oppositionists, it has humiliated the European border controls to an authoritarian state in the eastern Mediterranean, it has attracted African migrants to Libya, which we all know has led to a renaissance of Arab slave trade, and last but not least it has greatly contributed to Britain's choosing to leave the Union. On p. 125 he summarizes the whole system as a th ical train crash. My question is whether the Prime Minister, in order to help the Union not to make the same mistake again, might consider giving this book for Christmas to a suitable official in the Government Office.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-25	Madam President, I would like It is certainly a completely neutral writer who does not have an opinion on the issue of migration. I don't know who that is. However, we should first of all note that the common asylum system is not in place. To accuse the common asylum system of something that we have not even decided on is beyond my academic ability, I can say. It is important that we see the whole of this. The three perspectives, which I also mentioned in my re-reporting, are what we stick to and what I keep talking about the need for Europe to agree on. It is, of course, important to ensure that people who are not refugees, for example, are not forced to take these dangerous journeys across the Mediterranean and are not forced to make the dangerous and austere journeys on the African continent. There is an effort going on in cooperation with African countries and in cooperation with the African Union to ensure that people do not have to take these two dangerous routes. The second is to ensure that we have sufficiently strong external borders. This work continues. And the third, which we have not yet managed to get in place, is about the common migration policy, which involves, among other things, the redistribution of refugees who will actually come to Europe and who are refugees for real. This is not black or white. There are too many people who do not have refugee status who are forced into these dangerous journeys. But it will be people who are fleeing war and misery or who are persecuted, and we will have a responsibility to receive them. They shall have the right to seek asylum. That's what we're gonna stand up for. However, referring to some academic thesis and saying that it is a migration system that is not in place that has contributed to this is, in my view, going too far.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-29	Madam President, I would like The Prime Minister therefore does not know that we have a common asylum system in place. Let me remind him, then, of some legal acts that are in force today: the Basic Directive, the Procedural Directive, the Reception Directive, the Return Directive and the Dublin Regulation. Swedish asylum policy is based almost entirely on EU legislation. The fact that the Prime Minister is not aware of this is worrying to say the least. When it comes to one of the people who wrote this book--it's not a thesis, it's a popular science work-- it's not a person who takes a political stand. It is a professor at Oxford University and one of the world's leading experts on migration. To dismiss what such a person has written as some sort of submission in a political debate is, to say the least, arrogant.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-31	Madam President, I would like I am well aware that there is a system in place. I am talking about what we are discussing for the future and what we are going to do in the future. That's what's important. How are we going to change this system? It has to change, and it's going on. Some pieces of legislation have come a long way, others have gone nowhere. However, the fact remains that we in the European Union still have to cooperate with the countries in our neighbourhood and ensure that we have a strong external border but also to resolve the situation of the people who will come to the European Union and have the right to seek asylum. As I said in my re-reporting, it is also important to see the humanitarian part of this. We have seen for years a war in Syria that has brought a terrible life to many people. Many people's lives have been extinguished, others have been forced to flee. There are people running for other reasons. Somewhere we have to take responsibility for people having the right to seek asylum.
i-3HPeeSY74ufkbiRpwXECv9	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report of the European Council! Let me first express my satisfaction that you were able to agree on a statement on Brexit. I believe that this is essential to allay the concerns of a great many people, both British people on the European continent and Europeans living or living in the United Kingdom. It is extremely important that we have an agreement in place, and I am pleased that you were able to agree on this. Madam President, I would like During the meeting of the EU Board, I expressed the wish not only to talk about tougher moves, border controls and the like in terms of migration policy. Unfortunately, in the conclusions that have now been presented, I note that words such as humanity and humanity are not printed on paper at all. In his speech in this area, did the Prime Minister express a wish to include this in the conclusions of the meeting? The second question I would like to raise concerns the issue that we call security and defence. Several of us who were present at the meeting of the EU Board held a discussion on how we are going to have it with the transatlantic link – if we are to have strategic autonomy, as expressed in the draft that was then on the table and which I can say is copied from the draft that was then there.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-36	Madam President, I would like As far as Brexit is concerned, I'm happy too. It is still a huge problem, because it is difficult to manage the balance between standing up for the agreement on the one hand and saying that we want to help each other and, on the other hand, not being able to give the legal assurances that the British Government wants. As far as humanities are concerned, I mentioned this in my speech. I pointed out exactly what I said in the report back. The text on the table was not possible to change. I think we'd have stayed for 14 days if we'd opened it up. There were many who wanted to make changes – from the other side too, if I put it that way, namely Poland and Hungary. So it was a well-balanced text. However, I made exactly what Mr Erlandsson mentioned in the European Council, because I think that is right. We need to think both ways. As far as autonomy is concerned, what I said in the EU Council is not that the EU now sees itself as the EU and nothing else. The transatlantic link and cooperation – as underlined in the conclusions – are important and will continue to be so. So there is no desire to pull it apart in any way and thus weaken the transatlantic link. Many of the EU countries are members of NATO and will be so. They see this cooperation as important, but also the cooperation that we have with NATO, we non-NATO countries that are in the EU. So I see no risk of such a change of attitude.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-39	Madam President, I would like Then let me ask my third question. It concerns the unrest that is and has been between Russia and Ukraine. The Prime Minister announced here that it stood up for an extension of the sanctions that the EU has against Russia in this regard. Did anyone, such as the Prime Minister, raise a request for increased sanctions? After all, there have been new abuses of Ukrainian society.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-41	Madam President, I would like I mentioned at the meeting with the Nordic-Baltic countries that we must mark further what has just happened in the Sea of Azov. The ships that Russia has simply taken must be returned and their crews released. As far as sanctions are concerned, the main line has been to try to keep them as we do. As we know, there are countries that want to go the other way and start letting them go. In this case, it was more important to ensure that they are not jeopardised than to raise new ones. We have said that what has now happened in the Strait of Kerch and the Sea of Azov should lead to additional sanctions. However, out of vigilance so as not to weaken existing sanctions, we have chosen not to pursue it.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-43	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your report. As far as the long-term budget is concerned, the difficulties come later when money is to be discussed. I think it is important that the Riksdag eventually gathers to a clear decision on how far you can go. I believe that it should land at a maximum of 1% of GDP in the budget and no increased Swedish EU membership fee. It is reasonable that the EU should also save money. I guess there's room for that. As far as the wording on Ukraine is concerned, I share Mr Erlandsson's view. The wording of the document is clear and clear, and it is good that sanctions should be extended, but it would have been desirable to strengthen sanctions against individuals due to the abuse in Kerchsundet. So, over to migration. That is where the situation is locked up, especially in everything that concerns joint responsibility, quota refugees, what solves the situation. On the other hand, there are joint decisions on tougher border controls and more repressive measures. It is clear that this policy is not working well. Too many people die in the Mediterranean. My first question to the Prime Minister is: if it continues to look like it is now, which is due to political majorities in the countries, is the Prime Minister prepared, together with other countries that want to take joint responsibility – it could be France, Germany, other countries – actually go ahead, as has been done sometimes within the EU, and create a system that others can eventually join? This is to show that the right to asylum and joint responsibility are safeguarded. It is also important to tackle the causes of refugee disasters. Two of the major reasons are the war in Yemen and the war in Syria. Is it not time to impose an EU arms embargo on the warring parties of the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia and Turkey? It is their attacks – plus those of others, of course – that drive people to leave their homes in these conflicts.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-49	Madam President, I would like I can first confirm that we agree on the direction of the budget. The EU must save now that a country leaves, but also redistribute so that we make better use of the money. As far as Ukraine is concerned and possible strengthened sanctions, I replied when I replied to Mr Erlandsson what the election was. I still think it's right. Yes, the situation on migration is locked. But, once again, this applies above all to the distribution itself. As far as the act on authorities and reception and other acts is concerned, progress is actually being made. One of the discussions that was taking place and that is ongoing was whether to adopt the legislative acts where you have come quite far or whether it should still be a package. We could end up in a situation where it's better to split up. I don't know. But right now, we're not there. At the moment, it is to be considered as a whole, and that means that the seven acts are to be adopted in a decision. It's not to give in to those who don't want to do anything. As far as the question of whether Sweden should lead with any others is concerned, this is not the case. It'll be easy for some countries to say, "That's great, then we'll get out of this." If we have a too narrow base of countries, we again have a situation where some countries become very attractive to seek, and then we get the kind of situation we had in 2015. The whole point of the common migration system is that everyone should take responsibility, and then we will see how that discussion ends. There is therefore no point in taking the lead. As far as the arms embargo is concerned, Germany as a nation has said that they do not want to export arms, but they have not pushed for an arms embargo either. There is currently no discussion about a European arms embargo.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-54	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. If this discussion does not exist today, I think that Sweden should raise it. It would be a good direction for Swedish foreign policy to say that we should attack the source of the refugee disasters. It is a fact that Turkey contributes, among other things, through ethnic cleansing in Afrin to major refugee disasters in the Syria conflict. A number of EU countries, including Sweden, export arms to Turkey. Although major arms deals with Saudi Arabia are not currently being conducted with the United Arab Emirates, which are also involved in this bombing war. To say that we stop exporting weapons is both to work for the end of the conflict and to actually counteract the displacement of people. Millions of people have had to leave their homes in Syria and Yemen because of this. I would urge the Prime Minister to step forward and put on the leadership shirt. Tell them it's time to stop creating new refugees – we end up with arms exports to those who wage war!
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-57	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to remind you that Sweden has recently amended arms legislation to make it more difficult for countries that do not comply with democratic rules to import arms. We have agreed on a Swedish legislation, and I want to comply with it and ensure that it is implemented in the best way. As I said, there is no such discussion now. It is clear that you can always stand and shout out into the air, but there must be some sort of resonance for such an action. Right now, there is no such thing. We will ensure that we comply with our strengthened legislation in the field of arms exports. I think it is important that we stick to this legislation.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-60	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. The British have voted in a referendum in favour of leaving the EU, and after a few years of negotiations, the European Council and the British Government have now approved an agreement on Brexit. The agreement also needs to be approved by the British Parliament and finally by the European Parliament. The Prime Minister of the United Kingdom has recently postponed the decision on the withdrawal agreement in Parliament, when she realised that the government would lose the vote because of dissatisfaction with the emergency solution on the Irish border. The British Parliament now wants to renegotiate the agreement and wants an end date for the Irish border issue, which has a temporary reserve solution. Madam President, I would like Continuing negotiations is not an option – we have declared this in the EU Council before the European Council. A tough border between Ireland, Northern Ireland and Great Britain should be avoided, and an orderly exit is important for the EU and Great Britain. It is therefore important to find a solution and a way forward for an orderly Brexit. A hard Brexit is something we want to avoid at all costs. It would be devastating for Swedes and Swedish companies operating in the UK, for Sweden, for the EU and for the UK. Madam President, I would like My question to the Prime Minister is whether the EU-27 would consider postponing the deadline of 29 March for Brexit in order to find a way forward on the issue of the Irish border.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-66	Madam President, I would like I share the concerns expressed by Robert Halef with regard to Brexit. Right now it looks very difficult. The British Prime Minister did not ask for renegotiation but for clarification. She called it a stronger – not binding – legal clarification of the EU's ambition. That is why we agreed on the statement that the EU has no ambition for the reserve solution to be in force forever or for a long time. The ambition of the EU is, of course, to achieve such a good future relationship with the UK that it is not needed. Should it be needed, however, it should be for a short time and not for a long time. We can't get any further. We cannot give anything legally binding, because then you cross the border and make Ireland uncertain. Then you suddenly run the risk of the border going on the Irish island instead of in the Irish Sea. We have gone as far as we have been able to do. There will be no renegotiation. We do not know how this is handled in Europe. No new exit date has been discussed. Ultimately, however, it must be the United Kingdom that comes back to how they want to see the continuation of this process. From there we have not yet heard such a thing.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-70	Madam President, I would like The fight against racism and xenophobia has also been discussed at the meeting. Anti-Semitism, racism and xenophobia are a growing problem in the EU and also in Sweden. The lack of respect for human rights and human dignity has increased. Extreme groups deny the Holocaust and spread hate speech against Jews via social media. Sweden and the EU should act vigorously against anti-Semitism, racism, xenophobia and other forms of intolerance. The equal and inviolable value of all human beings must be respected. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats welcome the EU's determination to combat anti-Semitism, racism and xenophobia. My question to the Prime Minister is: How will the government contribute to preventing, combating and combating anti-Semitism and racism in the EU and in Sweden?
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-74	Madam President, I would like I also share this view. We must do everything – at European, global, national, local and individual levels – to stand up to the anti-Semitism, xenophobia and extremism that we are now seeing around the world. This is a poison in our society, and we must help each other with every effort. I said in my Christmas speech yesterday that all democrats at this moment have a decision to make: either you let this through or you resist. We're going to fight it. I am therefore pleased that we have these conclusions after the European Council. We are doing work in Sweden to prevent and support the organisations and institutions that are designed to prevent anti-Semitism and xenophobia. We are also working to tighten the penalties for this type of crime. I myself have been the initiator of a discussion about whether we can even prevent the kind of organisations that are spreading this.
i-5YUN3b7rEvoBP1JWpyKnGn	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the statement by the European Council on the weekend of Lucia! I noted in the Prime Minister's speech that he is trying to maintain a slightly more balanced approach to the issue of migration than can be seen in the conclusions. I also noted the shifts that have taken place, which emphasise the right of asylum and humanitarian aspects of the issue of migration. I welcome this as a liberal. Three of the conclusions of the European Council concern migration. I do not really have any comments on what is said there. I share the view that it is important to have more effective control of the European Union's external borders and that there is a need for more action to this end, and that it is important to stop illegal border crossings and so on. The concern is not in the conclusions. There is not a word about the fact that there are also positive aspects to migration. There is not a word about the huge influx of refugees we are seeing now, not least from Syria and other war zones. There is not a word about dignified treatment, about legal certainty, about combating hatred of immigrants, and so on. The question to the Prime Minister then becomes: Does Sweden drive this hard enough? Are we really urging other countries to join in order to get such wordings in? What conclusions does the Prime Minister draw from the fact that there is not a word in the conclusions about what the Prime Minister says from the speaker's chair here in Parliament during the reporting?
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-81	Madam President, I would like This is not the first time the issue of migration has been discussed. A number of conclusions have been drawn over the years, and it is not the case that all the conclusions always address all the perspectives. I also raised at the meeting the issue of humanity and the importance of seeing the other side of the matter. If we had gone into trying to change the text, we would probably have had to sit for two weeks, because there are others who want to see the question go the other way. I can assure you that at the end of the debate it is written: So the question is up, it is there and, as I have said, we have the three parts. We need to help countries around us so that people do not have to travel dangerously, we need to keep track of our borders and we need to have an internal system that works in solidarity. This is what we're working on.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-84	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer. We will have to return to the issue of migration on many more occasions in the future. My second question concerns the statement made and mentioned in the conclusions condemning all forms of anti-Semitism, racism and xenophobia by EU Heads of State or Government and underlining the importance of combating intolerance. It is important, and we welcome it, of course. But the truth is that such statements also oblige. The question to the Prime Minister is: what commitments does the European Union have to make to ensure that it does not simply stop at an important statement? We see more and more Jews leaving Europe. They don't have the guts to stay. We have seen attacks in France, Denmark and also in Sweden, in Gothenburg, against Jews. What obligations does the Union, as the Prime Minister sees it, have in the future?
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-87	Madam President, I would like The whole of Europe's values are based on this, and that is why the Member States must also live up to it. There must always be pressure from the European Union for the Member States to live up to this. There is a reason why there are processes going on in some countries that may not always be linked to that very thing, but where countries do not live up to the fundamental values. The EU will then process to ensure that they live up to it. I think it is important that we have this kind of statement, but it is the national, the local and the individual that will finally decide this. It is important that Europe can continue to steer in this direction, but then, as Member States, we must take the baton and show how we do it. Sweden has a number of measures in place and to continue to work to strengthen the fight against anti-Semitism, xenophobia and racism.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-89	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your report. I will begin in the same way as the Prime Minister, by paying attention to the centenary and saying that it feels fantastic to be standing here in the Parliament's pulpit today with a woman in the Speaker's Chair and a metal worker as Prime Minister. I think it is a fantastic tribute to our democracy. I shall address the issue of climate change, because I believe that one reason for being positive to the EU is precisely the success of the climate and the environment. They have been achieved by the fact that we have been able, by qualified majority, to force countries that have not themselves wanted to pursue an offensive environmental and climate policy to take these important steps. Within the European Union, there is now a discussion about us taking more decisions, in other areas, by qualified majority. I think there is reason to be sceptical about this, but I would like to defend the fact that we continue to take as much of climate policy as possible by qualified majority voting. This is hugely important, because there are countries which, with the help of the UN process, are trying to move some of these issues to unanimity in the European Council. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether he shares the view that it is important to ensure that we can take all the important climate decisions by qualified majority so that the country that wants least can not keep its pace. Should we, however, see it as a small gain that it says that the European Council should provide guidance on the general direction of climate action in the future in the EU? Maybe it's a small win, 'cause I'm thinking there might have been something else there. Is that so, Prime Minister?
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-93	Madam President, I would like Yes, it's a real consideration of Åsa Westlund. There was a discussion that it should have been stated that the European Council would be taking a decision. But it could be argued well that this would be contrary to the Treaty. The European Council will do exactly what it says: provide guidance. It is of course important that there be a direction, guidance, in this way from the Heads of Government and the Heads of State. However, concrete legislation should be shaped in the Council, and that is entirely in accordance with the Treaty. So there were attempts in this direction, but that is not possible because the Treaty looks as it does. I think that is right, and that is the line we are taking. Not many people run the other line. But some do, and they didn't succeed.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-95	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. Many have spoken about Russia. I am therefore not going to say anything about this, although I agree that these were good statements on the part of the European Council. We have talked about Brexit many times, but I would still like to ask you a question. The clock is ticking, and we are not getting any real news from Britain about what they want. Although Theresa May has presented something about a binding agreement, there are also other votes in the UK. They seem to be very divided. What conclusions does the Prime Minister draw in this regard? The clock is ticking, and we have no deal for any kind of soft Brexit in place. Does the probability of a hard Brexit increase, and what does this lead to for the Swedish state administration?
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-98	Madam President, I would like It is clear that you get that feeling, because it is difficult to see any clear message from the UK about what they want. This was one of the problems at the end of last week. Theresa Mays's petition was that we would be able to assure that the backstop would not last forever. As I said before, we have made a real attempt to say that it is not an ambition of the European Union to have this reserve solution going on for decades or forever. It is, of course, about having as good a relationship as possible with the United Kingdom. Now we will see whether there will be a quick vote on this message or whether it will have to wait until the other side of the year. It's unwritten. But sure: The feeling of risk of a hard Brexit is there. For this reason, Sweden has occurred and is working hard to see what we then need to do.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-101	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. At the European Council, the issue of migration was once again on the agenda, and it is something that many people have highlighted here today. I want to do the same. It is really positive that Sweden is pushing for more cooperation in the EU when other countries want to join the world. Sweden stands up for the right of asylum when other countries back away. It was extremely good that the Prime Minister raised the right of asylum and the humanitarian perspective of the EU summit. Providing refuge for the people forced to flee would not have been a problem if all EU countries had helped each other. The situation of refugees is not solved by a country alone, but the whole of Europe must be involved in taking greater responsibility. Here, Sweden has an extremely important role in pushing ahead in the negotiations for a policy that is both legally secure and protects the right to asylum. Unfortunately, Sweden is struggling against the wind, and when nationalist forces are on the rise, it is extremely important that Sweden stands up for openness and human rights. A positive innovation is that last week the European Parliament took a stand in favour of a proposal to introduce a system of humanitarian visas for refugees. After all, we need safe and legal routes for refugees to enter the EU, and this is an issue that the Swedish Government has raised several times during its term of office. How can Sweden in the next Presidency, which we are about to enter, continue to work towards ensuring that all countries take responsibility for standing up for the right of asylum and ensuring that the EU's common acquis is legally secure and humane?
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-106	Madam President, I would like As I said, migration policy is an issue that we have had for a long time without agreeing. Or, rather, parts of it have been agreed upon. This is gradually becoming apparent in terms of the authority, reception, return, grounds for protection, etc. However, this does not apply to the distribution, and that is what we need to work on in the next presidency as well. It is a fact that the Austrian Presidency succeeded well in the long-term budget process, but there is no doubt that the issue of distribution has gone more slowly. The forthcoming Romanian Presidency is determined to try to address this. There are ongoing discussions in most countries on whether it is possible to find a solution other than the one that has been on the table so far, and here is Germany, France with several driving forces. We have a group of equal-minded countries that pushes the EU to put in place a system in which everyone assumes their responsibilities. It is about seeing what alternative solutions there are, but there is no doubt that the incoming Romanian Presidency is determined to pursue this process further, however difficult it may be.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-110	Madam President, I would like I shall also address the climate now that the climate summit has just ended. A rule book was adopted, which was fantastic. At the same time, we know that, at the moment, the combined measures are far from enough to meet the historic climate change we are facing. As everyone's Swedish climate action t Greta Thunberg said: The change is here whether we want it or not. However, there are bright points in the work ahead, and the rule book opens up for continuous improvement. How does the Prime Minister intend to push for the EU to take on an ambitious and proper responsibility in the future that is seriously facing the climate challenge?
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-113	Madam President, I would like Sweden has been driving this issue in the EU for a long time, and Sweden's position is demonstrably strong in both the EU and the world because Isabella Lövin got the role she got in Katowice, where she did a very good job in a very difficult situation. We can do this because Sweden enjoys confidence in these very issues, and that is why we continue to lie down. I believe that the strategy drawn up by the Commission is the basis for this, so that we can be clear that we must continue and also push for even tougher commitments. Because we have a very difficult situation ahead of us if we are not doing the right thing now. This will be done by Sweden, and we will also ensure that this strategy is actually implemented. As I said, it is the Council that takes the sharp decisions, and there are majority decisions, not unanimous decisions.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-116	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his report. I shall put the spotlight on the agenda item of the European Council which dealt with the internal market. It is through strong companies that people, jobs, tax revenues and welfare grow. Let me take a few examples. AB Furhoff Rostfria, together with its 115 employees, has contributed enough tax revenue to approximately 58 police officers. System installation with its 66 employees has contributed about 174 primary school places. These are just two examples of companies that, together with their employees, contribute to welfare. Sweden has more than 1 million companies, and if we in politics can create the very best conditions for these companies to grow, we will be able to hire more police officers and improve the knowledge results in school and the safety of healthcare. Swedish companies, however, need a well-functioning internal market. Looking back four or five years in the internal market, we see that it has not developed as well as it has potential for. In addition, Brexit will further weaken the situation of Swedish companies. That is why it was a good thing that this spring the European Council raised the issue of the internal market. This is of course important for all EU countries, but perhaps especially for Sweden, which is a small and export-dependent country. It is of the utmost importance that the Swedish Government is active in renewing, improving and deepening the internal market, and I therefore ask the Prime Minister: how has the government prepared itself since last spring when the European Council asked the Commission to produce the report that is now on the table? What did the Prime Minister say at the European Council in order to boost trade within the EU?
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-123	Madam President, I would like The importance of the internal market cannot be stressed enough. It is estimated that it adds about 8% to the EU's GDP, and it represents enormous values. We fully agree on this, including within the European Union. What the conclusions really say is that the European Union must make the decisions that are ready but not yet taken – it can be regulatory simplifications and other things – that the European Union must implement the decisions that are actually made and that the European Union must develop the digital single market and artificial intelligence, as well as the data economy and the service economy. There is an emphasis on these areas at the end, and it is in order for us to have the rules in Europe that are necessary for the internal market to continue to develop. Sweden will of course do its part in these areas so that we can meet and take part in the internal market. There are many small companies that have been able to grow thanks to the internal market, so we have every reason to implement, as we said in the European Council. We also have every reason to do what we can as a nation to develop not least the services sector and the digital economy, and that work is under way.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-127	Madam President, I would like This discussion will continue at the March summit, and this was a basis for that discussion. Because of the formation of the government, we do not know whether it will be Prime Minister Löfven who will represent us then, but let us assume that. How, then, will the Prime Minister act from now until the March summit so that Sweden can drive forward efforts to develop the internal market? I note that the Finnish Government, together with the Danish, Czech and Irish Governments, has produced a report to show how they want to improve the internal market. What are the main features of the Swedish Government's strategy?
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-129	Madam President, I would like It is as I have explained earlier in the European Council: what we should emphasise is not least the internal services market, the digital economy, services and artificial intelligence, because Europe is far behind, for example, the United States and Asia. It will create competitive disadvantages if we do not make it. Sweden, of course, is pushing the whole internal market to work, and so we support the conclusions on taking the decisions that have not yet been taken and implementing what has not yet been implemented. However, we would also like to emphasise in particular what is stated in the conclusions on the digital market. We have been doing this for a long time, and Europe has not come far enough here. This is the main strategy of the Swedish Government.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-132	Madam President, I would like We are today debating Category 3, which concerns tax collection, customs control, debt recovery and debt restructuring. It is important activity in many ways. I support the proposal in the report under paragraphs 2, 3 and 4. It is, of course, important to collect tax revenue. They finance welfare and our important social investments. Every missing tax crown and all the cheating in the benefit system undermines solidarity and trust in society. It destroys the kit in the building of society. There have been many known leaks on the international level where also Swedish citizens have been involved, such as Panama l eaks. There have been several such leaks in recent years. But the countries of the world are trying to close global tax evasion windows to low - taxed paradise islands and mountain princes. The tax escape window must be closed. We do so through international and European agreements. We Social Democrats welcome the OECD's BEPS project, and we are changing legislation and procedures in the course of the project. The financial industry, not least the banks, should remain too good to participate in and enable this type of tax evasion. Much more is being done now to prosecute the tax evasion. We have already proposed a wide range of measures which have also been decided in this House. It is, of course, important for the state's income, but it is equally important for the neutrality of competition between companies and for the conditions for employees in companies to be reasonable. Last term of office, the S-MP government, in cooperation with the Left Party, developed a ten-point programme against tax evasion. After some of the famous leaks there were two more points, so it's a 12-point program. This has, of course, been done to counter unfair competition, so that companies compete in the same way and that the serious companies are not encouraged by the cheaters in the tenders. We have heard from the Swedish Tax Agency's preliminary business plan. I find it impressive. The digitalization process continues. We as citizens today can declare on the phone in an easy way. It is somewhat more difficult for entrepreneurs, but I feel that the Swedish Tax Agency is trying to work with simplifications through digitalisation. One advantage of digitalisation is that it counteracts errors and cheating in a simple way. Of course, the IRS cannot do magic in these systems, but we need to review the tax system. It's over 25 years old. Today's tax system came before the Internet existed. We were not in the EU. It is a completely different society today. It is clear that all the over 600 exceptions make it an impenetrable tax system. We must hope, Madam President, that the parties in the next parliamentary term will have the power to review the entire tax system. Another responsibility of the Swedish Tax Agency is civil records. We have now changed the Population Accounts Act and hope that there will be a little more order on these issues. We've seen in the media about hijacked identities. Foreign people have registered themselves at other addresses. At times, the Tax Agency's handling of these issues has been too long. I hope that much of this will disappear with the new legislation and the developed systems of civil registration. Sweden should be an open country. But it takes order at the borders of the country. The EU stands for our external border, but we will still need border controls between countries to counter the illegal trade in spirits, drugs and weapons, which fertilise grossly organised crime. Therefore, the former S-MP government started an addition to the Swedish Customs Agency, which was the largest in more than a decade. The bourgeois government did not invest in the Tullverket in its time. In 2008, customs protection was close to being closed throughout Norrland. But due to the pressure of the Social Democrats to cope with customs protection in Norrland, there was more money in Anders Borg's budget. When the Swedish Enforcement Authority described its activities to us, I felt that they too, like the Swedish Tax Agency, are developing IT support and creating a more modern IT-based system. The aim is to make it easier to recover debts and help people with payment plans. It is important that the Riksdag monitors this activity so that it is modernised. Madam President, I would like It is not a normal budgetary process today, but it is a transitional government that has presented its budget. There have been very many tours that I have not planned to go through today, but a transitional budget is not a permanent solution. It is not an opinion of the Social Democrats and the Green Party in government; it is an administrative representation of a budget. When the new government takes office, whatever it may be, it will have to adjust the budgets with supplementary budgets. However, I would like to be clear and add that the decisions on changes in appropriations made today will hardly be changed by any government.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-144	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats leave four years in power behind. It has been a time of good international prosperity that has benefited and stimulated the Swedish economy well, which has led us to have good resources to address the societal challenges that we see. Nevertheless, we also leave behind a year with perhaps the most killings ever. During a month in 2018, we had over 20 shootings. This is a development that we must stop. We have to change something. The first way to stop the shootings is to limit the influx of weapons, which is necessary. If customs were to have powerful tools and more resources to work on this immediately, we could also break the development of arms smuggling. This is something that the wool compartment itself has wanted. They have said that they need about 500 new employees in order to be able to curb the development and work more actively with this. Then one becomes somewhat distressed when one hears Jörgen Hellman here describe it as that what has been done has been the biggest ever and beat himself a little bit for the chest over the efforts that the previous government has made. This development cannot stand up. I am absolutely convinced that Jörgen Hellman and I agree that the killings and developments must end. We must change the trend with the number of illegal weapons in Sweden. My question to Jörgen Hellman is: why have the Social Democrats not had the opportunity during the four years that the Social Democrats have had to ensure that there have been more people in place at the border so that they have been able to work more actively on this? The Customs Union is asking for another 500 employees.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-148	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. As regards the assessment of the economy of the last parliamentary term, it was, of course, a boom. During this boom, we managed capital well. We had no tax cuts with borrowed money, but we made sure to amortise. The government has had good surpluses over those years. It was against a previous term of office with good growth and order in public finances. As far as customs is concerned, we all dreamed when we joined the European Union and the wall fell on the idea that it would become a more open society. We would have more market integration in Europe. We all saw the benefits of the open countries. There are advantages to free trade, but there was also a reverse. You describe the back with shootings and hand grenade attacks. With the change that has taken place in society, Customs will have more resources in the future. Cooperation with the police, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Environmental Crimes Agency will certainly be improved independently of the government year after year. The development of violence in society is unacceptable. It was the previous government, Cecilia Widegren, that started to increase the appropriations for customs. The bourgeois government did not, except when we pressed when Norrland would not have border protection.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-152	Madam President, I would like When you see a challenge, it is important to take on that challenge. Then it is not enough to beat your chest if you make a bet that is not enough. It is very clear that the outgoing government leaves a gap in the challenges we face. We must do more here. We are pleased that last week the Riksdag decided to increase the framework of Moderates and Christian Democrats to the Swedish Customs Agency, so that we can now start a long-term initiative where we can see the additional 500 customs employees in the coming years. That would mean that we do not have border stations that are at times empty and that we may be able to overcome the smuggling of weapons that we see. What surprises me is that the Social Democrats and Jörgen Hellman are still a little empty about this and think that what has been done so far has been enough. The development shows something quite different, Jörgen Hellman. When will the Social Democrats wake up and give the Swedish Customs the necessary long-term efforts and not stop at good rhetoric?
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-155	Madam President, I would like Cecilia Widegren has something too big in this. It is clear that an increase of 30 million will not be able to finance 500 new customs officers. I do not think that is in line with any sensible wages at all. It is a transitional government that has handed over its budget. I believe that we in all parties in this House realise that we need to invest more in customs in the future because society looks different from when we joined the European Union.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-157	Madam President, I would like The state's financial framework for 2019 provides completely new opportunities for Sweden to address people's concerns and society's challenges. Last week, the Swedish Parliament decided to increase the funding framework in our area of tax, customs and execution by 120 million in total. That's a good start. That is good for Sweden, and we must continue that development. The foundation is that the foreign theft leagues are increasing in Sweden and the shootings are increasing. It has to stop. We have to reverse the trend. There are specific principles for the budget proposal that we have dealt with in Parliament. We have agreed on these principles. Although a transitional government is bound by certain principles, the Riksdag is not bound by the same principles. The Parliament has neither the right nor the responsibility but, according to the Constitution, has to make the decisions that apply to the budget. It is the Riksdag that has the financial power. We have therefore made the necessary preparations in the Tax Committee in accordance with the wishes expressed not least in the parliamentary order regarding opinions and information in order to be able to work further on the framework decision adopted last week by the Parliament. The Swedish Tax Agency has, among other things, made it clear that the tax rulings given by the Riksdag and will take decisions can be implemented according to what the Moderates and Christian Democrats have said. After a preparation that meets the requirements of the Riksdag Act, it is now clear that there is an investment in customs but of course also at the Swedish Tax Agency. Let's start there. It is time to continue to curb fraud and abuse with the tax system. That is something that must not be accepted. It is equally important to be able to combat tax evasion effectively. It is a very important task for the legitimacy of the tax system that the Swedish Tax Agency has to work on. The Swedish Tax Agency is now receiving increased resources to be able to work with this. Madam President, I would like In Sweden, you should do the right thing. Those who exploit systems of cheating and abuse take the right to live at the expense of others. The Moderates and Christian Democrats believe that this can never be accepted in the case of those who flee taxes or those who receive contributions without being entitled to it. It is therefore a good thing that this work can now be intensified by the Swedish Tax Agency. Madam President, I would like Let me go into the greatest effort made by the Moderate and Christian Democrats' budget motion. It is about 90 million in the coming years, Jörgen Hellman, and nearly half a billion over a number of years to allow for the increase in our borders that is clearly necessary. This year is one of the worst years in terms of killings in Sweden. The first and necessary step to stop those shootings is to begin a limitation of the influx of weapons. The previous year there were 129 shootings, in 2016 there were 119 shootings and in 2015 the figure was under 100. So we have completely the wrong development. We're going the wrong way, and it's got to stop. The situation has become worse and worse. The conclusion is clear to all of us. It can't go on. It is far too easy to bring arms to Sweden, and it has increased significantly compared to other comparable countries. The first necessary step to stop shootings is to limit the influx of weapons. If customs could immediately make it possible to make an acceleration of the work that they are working on today but that they need to do more of, it would be a good first line to start fighting crime and limiting deadly violence. If we in society are serious, it is about providing resources, opportunities and conditions for the people who work around our borders every day at the agency. Such an effort is not only an effective way of combating crime, but also, of course, reducing the burden on police, health and social services. The Customs-Coast Trade Union, which organises large parts of customs officials, speaks of an acute shortage of customs staff as a result of many years of reductions. Madam President, I would like Many border stations are at times completely unattended, which means that weapons and illegal activities can flow privately across the border in several places in Sweden during most of the hours of the day. This cannot stand; it must be stopped. Developments must be reversed. The Customs Agency is a law enforcement resource that is currently not fully used on the basis of the knowledge and opportunities available. The Customs-Coast Trade Union itself points to the need for another 500 new employees in the coming years in order to reduce the shortcomings that have arisen in recent years. The draft budget of the Moderates and Christian Democrats enables this journey to begin with the efforts that take place from 1 January next year, in a few weeks' time. With a stronger customs service, the introduction of arms, drugs and other illegal goods to Sweden could be limited. The Customs Agency is now forced to prioritise between different border crossing points, despite Sweden's increased level of security and despite the changed and deteriorating world situation. Madam President, I would like People's needs for services from the social security network must be taken very seriously. The share of residential burglary committed by foreign theft leagues has escalated. According to the statistics, more than half of all housing offences are currently committed by foreign theft gangs that have built up logistics and a capacity to handle stolen goods, accommodation and transport across our borders. Customs is the first line's fight against foreign theft leagues. Should customs be given more resources to use their capabilities, a reversal of these developments could begin, which is absolutely necessary. The long-term initiative of the Moderates and Christian Democrats is an effort to strengthen customs but also an ambition to strengthen the entire Swedish border protection. For too long it has been down-priority and therefore obviously needs to be increased in order to enable a longer-term development of security. Madam President, I would like I support point 1 of the budget. I also support reservation 1 and alliance reservation 6.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-174	Madam President, I would like In previous years, the Moderates have spent money and a directed mission to the Swedish Tax Agency to get at cheating on the travel allowance. We can note that in the report this year there is no such mandate. Instead, other tax evasion missions have been targeted. When the Swedish Tax Agency last in depth in this matter was 2003 – quite a long time ago, 15 years ago – it was discovered that the cheating of the travel allowance was widespread. One reason for this is that it is relatively easy to cheat, because the system looks like it does and it is difficult and time-consuming for the Tax Agency to check compliance. The Moderates have also assumed that there is an extensive cheating, since the previous budget had included more money on the revenue side that would enter the state as a result of the commission to the Tax Agency. Madam President, I would like I would simply like to ask the Moderates and Cecilia Widegren why they do not include the travel allowance mission in their budget.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-177	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rasmus Ling, for addressing important issues of tax evasion and abuse of the common tax system! Fundamental to our tax system's legitimacy is, of course, that it is being followed as well as possible. The basis for being able to do more is that you spend a little more resources on the Swedish Tax Agency. The Moderates and Christian Democrats do so in their budget, unlike the transitional government that Rasmus Ling is behind. It is very positive that our frameworks have gone through in contrast to the frameworks that Rasmus Ling advocates. We assume, of course, that we will soon have a new Prime Minister and Government in place. Since it is the government that issues regulatory letters and can therefore include this and many other missions to make our tax system more legitimate, this is an issue that can of course be left to that process.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-180	Madam President, I would like The Moderates slaughtered the appropriations for environmental and climate work in the budget that went through last week, and the removal of this targeted mission follows that logic. You just don't care about controlling with environmental taxes. And that there has been an extensive cheating with the travel allowance you no longer care about. I am sorry about this. I have a supplementary question. There is an investigation that is working on a changed travel deduction that would be more fair, more environmental and distance-based – a system that the Moderates have previously supported in the Rural Committee. I would now like to ask Cecilia Widegren: Will the Moderates support this when the investigation comes?
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-182	Madam President, I would like First, I want to correct the environmental partyist Rasmus Ling, who apparently cannot put in the environmental efforts that Sweden has made and will do in a perspective. The funding of the Moderates and Christian Democrats for the environmental budget is as large as it was in 2016– then Rasmus Ling was also responsible– which means that it is certainly a very good share that is being invested. Then we choose other ways than the Green Party to achieve the common goals we have set ourselves. But the investment in the Swedish Tax Agency is therefore greater in our budget. We want to do more to curb cheating and abuse. The assignments that will go to the Swedish Tax Agency will be settled by letter of regulation from the Government Office when an alliance government hopefully takes office.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-185	Madam President, I would like The Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats pushed through a budget last week, and everyone has noted that. But exactly what the three parties are prioritising in terms of the scaled-down appropriations for these three authorities compared to their budget movements is not clear. In the moderate budget exercise it is written that in the question of the Swedish Tax Agency's increased funding, 40 million would be used to make it more difficult for money to be hidden abroad and 20 million would create jobs in connection with the decommissioning of Radiotjänst in Kiruna. Since the decommissioning of Radiotjänst takes place, this must mean that Moderates' intended anti-avoidance efforts are turned down by 75 percent, from SEK 40 million to SEK 10 million, under pressure from the Christian Democrats, who leave the grant to the Swedish Tax Agency unchanged. My question to Cecilia Widegren is: how does it feel to cooperate to the right and reduce the ambition of work against tax evasion and tax evasion?
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-187	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to correct Jörgen Hellman of the Social Democrats, who was apparently out of spirit, at least in terms of thought, when we voted on the framework of the state budget. It was the framework of the Moderates and Christian Democrats that was approved by the Riksdag. That more parties – it could also have been the Social Democrats – chose to vote in favour of the draft budget, we are just happy about. But basically it is an alliance reform agenda that the Moderates and Christian Democrats together present to the Riksdag. Our funding in this area is greater than that of the current government. We therefore put more resources into both what Jörgen Hellman describes and to secure customs and execution. If Jörgen Hellman has not understood that our funding is greater and no less I regret it. But we really want to continue – and here I commend Jörgen Hellman's Social Democratic Government – the work that has been done on cheating, tax evasion and tax evasion. This must continue, and we therefore add more resources to it.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-189	Madam President, I would like The proposal of the Moderates and Christian Democrats was 90 million more for the Swedish Customs and 30 million more for the Swedish Tax Agency compared with the proposal in the transitional budget. The Swedish Democrats supported this in the framework decision, but when we then adjusted the report we are debating today in committee, the Swedish Democrats did not take part in the decision, despite the fact that the party stood for the overall framework decision in the House the day before. One question to Cecilia Widegren is: How does it feel to have the Swedish Democrats as a partner? Does it feel like a stable partner when one managed to vote through a framework in the House but did not manage to follow in committee?
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-191	Madam President, I would like I do not know if Jörgen Hellman was really present when I just described that last week it was the draft budget of the Moderates and Christian Democrats that won the floor of this House. Of course, six other parties had the opportunity to vote on our draft budget – we all invited them to do so. One party chose to do so, and some chose to abstain. We put a lot of policy here on the table of this House and also in the committees, and as many as possible can vote for the moderate and, in this case, also Christian-Democratic policy, which is basically about an alliance government's reform agenda, which we are preparing with the hope that we will also soon have an alliance government Prime Minister in place to implement the policy that we want to implement.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-193	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Swedish Democrats' reservation 2 on the powers and activities of the Customs Agency. With regard to appropriations under Heading 3 Taxation, Customs and Enforcement, Parliament has supported another draft budget and its expenditure framework and estimates of revenue. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats have chosen not to take part in the decision on appropriations under Category 3, but to present our position in a separate opinion. In politics there are contradictions between ideologies and ideas, and there are clear ideological differences in tax policy. In the past, this has been marked by a one-dimensional conflict between increased or reduced taxes, but now we are living in new times where the conflict line is changing or at least supplemented by another dimension of global power and national self-determination. Today, some political players believe that major elements of federal structures are the way forward, while we Swedish democrats see a significant risk with European tax policy, which seeks to gradually shift power over tax policy to the EU in small steps. The long-term goal is the ambition to create an EU Finance Minister with power over Swedish tax policy. Here we call for an awakening. Although for others it would be a dizzy awakening in the time of the Count, it is high time to ask ourselves whether we want Sweden to be a sovereign and free nation or whether we should become a European multicultural federation. The Swedish Democrats advocate voluntary intergovernmental tax treaties as a starting point. There are also ideological differences in the view of customs policy, where some choose to prioritise multibillion dollars into large-scale mass immigration, while the Customs Office stands by the handfall by comparison with petty resources to carry out its most basic tasks. Those politicians who seem to have almost forgotten that customs actually exists, or who have imagined that the Customs Service is no longer needed, usually find it a little difficult to see how customs actually contributes to greater security in society. The Customs Agency is a stick in the wheel for many illegal activities. We believe that it is an important political contradiction to point out that the Swedish Customs Agency, with a very strong ability to limit and control inflows and outflows, stands in stark contrast to the policy pursued with almost open doors at the Swedish border. Our position is very clear in this, and we would like to emphasise that it is now urgent to strengthen Sweden's borders further in both the legal and the physical sense. The Customs Department is an essential part of it. We can also see that there are ideological differences in debt policy. Those who view the growing debt society as a critical problem in which, in the long run, Kronofogden will have to deal with the negative effects of it – while several political actors in this area are shining with their absence – do not pay attention to the social problem as a whole and do not have any proposals for action. It may be appropriate to refer to an expression that a former Prime Minister used: The Swedish people are in debt, and we only need to look back to the 1990s to see what happened then. At the time, it was the state, municipalities and real estate companies that had the debts on their balance sheets. This time it's households. The political divide goes between those who do not see this or close their eyes and those who can see with open eyes how credit institutions have expanded their activities and thus placed Swedish households in an increased debt in times of falling market interest rates and a monetary policy that does not take into account the problem. This has also been strengthened by tax subsidies on borrowed money. But despite the differences, there are also similarities between at least part of the parties in the Riksdag in relation to the tax committee's issues, and there should be opportunities to come to an agreement. We have heard some examples of this now, for the first time ever, I think that both Social Democrats and Moderates speak warmly for, not least, customs. In fiscal policy, the Swedish Democrats work for international tax cooperation at global intergovernmental level and in areas such as welfare finance, business-friendly procedure, tax transparency, tax controls and enhanced tax morality. We know that several parties in this House are happy to join in this. As far as customs' physical procedures and material resources are concerned, we advocate, for example, greater possibilities for arming customs officials if necessary, the powers to detain goods and persons waiting for police, etc. More scanners are needed in number and investment in new technology in the light of the knowledge that dangerous goods flow into Sweden and that stolen goods flow out. With regard to customs offences and strategies against them, the Swedish Democrats want to step up work within the Customs Agency against organised crime through more police officers in the Customs Team. We want to give the Swedish Customs increased authority to prosecute organised smuggling operations and with this an increased ability to stop illegal exports, review the distribution of resources and time within the Swedish Customs Agency and give greater weight to the work with exports. In particular, the issue of the Customs Agency's resources for handling contraband is, moreover, a major concern that we need to remedy. As regards trade, increased efforts are needed on digitisation and other IT developments necessary to meet the requirements of the Union Customs Code. For Kronofogden a more detailed work is needed to counteract over-indebtedness. This is a brief summary of the proposals that we Swedish democrats have put forward in this year's budget motion and in several previous budgetary motions, which we set out in the proposals that are dealt with in this report and for which we have budgeted. I request the approval of reservation 2.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-207	Madam President, I would like According to the Swedish Democrats, customs should also go really hard when it comes to crime and punishment. You're supposed to arm the customs officers and so on. But when it comes to the worst of the crimes, the multibillionaires who steal our common tax funds and place them in tax havens, the Swedish democrats are very weak and not particularly through on crime. They attack people on the run seeking asylum, but when it comes to tax evasion that plunders and drains our welfare, SD has repeatedly left the walk over. They are often opposed to proposals to prevent tax evasion and money laundering, and they leave free scope for tax fraudsters to plan and make their gross tax arrangements. Then you put the problem that it is because of immigrants that our elderly do not get lingonberries for the potatoes in the retirement home. In fact, over 130 billion are being lost in tax evasion, usually planned by wealthy people who take from our welfare. That's a lot of pounds of lingonberries. Why doesn't SD want to do anything when it comes to tax evasion? You block any proposal to combat tax evasion.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-210	Madam President, I would like There were many errors I had to listen to before my ears almost fell off. The Swedish Democrats have put forward proposals for increased tax controls, for example, and we have voted in favour of virtually all sensible proposals that have come from the government precisely in terms of combating tax evasion, tax evasion and tax evasion. If we have ever voted against a government proposal, it is because we have added a minor addition to it, sometimes even to tighten the rules further. And then we have voted on our proposal. To say that we have voted 'no' is just as unserious as to say that the Left Party has voted 'no' to Sweden having a state budget, Tony Haddou. It was not the framework that you voted for that won, and so you have voted against having a state budget. It's just as unserious an argument. I hope we can stop doing that.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-214	Madam President, I would like One should be able to demand a little honesty in the debate. The Swedish Democrats say that they see what is a little more effective. Just a few weeks ago, the proposal for the implementation of, for example, CFC rules in the EU Directive against tax evasion came into force. Then the Swedish Democrats reserved themselves. You describe taxation as a blunt tool, David Lång. You also say that you do not want to give businesses and businesses increased administrative costs. Business and capital must always take precedence over our common well-being and ordinary employees. Why are you always at the disposal of the business community? You always find your way to their organizations, but you don't care at all about our welfare. Why?
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-216	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are a party with high welfare ambitions. Of course, we always seem to be in favour of high tax standards and high efficiency and of combating tax evasion and tax evasion. There has been some suggestion where the evil, so to speak, has considered. Maybe it was administrative costs. It is true that when we identify proposals that are justified solely by combating tax evasion, there is a risk that we will vote against them. One can, of course, put forward any proposals and justify it by countering tax evasion, although there is reason to believe that it will not. However, we have voted in favour of all the sharp proposals which de facto prevent tax evasion and tax evasion.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-219	Madam President, I would like I'll stick with the IRS and the Enforcement Authority. My centre colleague in the Tax Committee, Helena Vilhelmsson, will talk about Customs and Customs. There are a number of targets with taxes. Taxes are generated to our public sector. Taxes are generated for distributional, environmental and other consumption-driven reasons. It is desirable – yes, it is necessary – that taxes are simple and that there is predictability and legal certainty in the levying of taxes. In essence, however, it is an important objective for us legislators: that there is legitimacy behind the levying of taxes. It is therefore positive that the Swedish Tax Agency has for several years gained increasing confidence among citizens and companies. Confidence in our fiscal authorities in both private individuals and companies brings with it a simpler everyday life for private individuals and a reduced regulatory burden for companies. Madam President, I would like According to the Confidence Survey, last year the Swedish Tax Agency placed itself at the absolute top of the ranking that includes everything from companies to associations and authorities. When confidence is measured for authorities only, the Swedish Tax Agency will in this year's measurement immediately after Säpo. That is, of course, pleasing. This shows that the work that has been put into civil dialogue has produced results. At the same time, work against tax evasion and tax evasion has been extremely important and needs to be strengthened. RUT and ROT deductions are examples that have helped to fundamentally change attitudes towards tax evasion and undeclared work. But, of course, more needs to be done. The work carried out at international and European level, as well as within the OECD and the EU, can also be mentioned here. The IRS has a very active role there. Some areas have also played a leading role. Madam President, I would like Operating tax systems and payment systems are the basis for an economic system. It is our three fiscal authorities that will ensure that this works. The taxes we decide on must be perceived as reasonable, and the purpose of their inclusion must not be misunderstood. Legality, legal certainty and transparency must permeate all aspects of the legislation. This also applies to the application of the authorities. The Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Enforcement Authority are central to the Swedish legal society. Both individuals and businesses must have confidence in what the authorities do. Then predictability and clear rules are crucial. To ensure that the taxes decided are paid in a legally secure and effective way is the basis for financing our public activities. It is also a question of equal treatment and the safeguarding of trust in the public sector. Here it is worth pointing out that the Swedish Tax Agency must relate to what the Riksdag has decided by law. The Swedish Tax Agency should not make its own, more fiscal interpretations or as a control authority start to control business. Let me take some examples from the previous parliamentary term. One of these is the cash register legislation. The Swedish Tax Agency has said that activities carried out at such a location that cash registers cannot be used, due to the lack of electricity or mobile coverage, are not exceptions. That is not acceptable. Another example is the legislation that changed the previous term of office regarding the conditions for both air and boat operations, preferably boat transport in the archipelago. It has turned out that the Swedish Tax Agency makes a very fiscal interpretation. You back up and do position transfers. But it does not do so to such an extent that it removes differences between doing business in, for example, our archipelago and on the land slope. It is not acceptable that the conditions for operating differ according to where the company is located in the country. As far as this legislation is concerned, there has been a categorisation in its application of private and commercial activities. In what companies have to deal with, the concepts of private and commercial activities are used. Those of you who listen to this hear for yourselves that it is untenable. There is reason for the Riksdag to denounce these maladministration and make announcements for a future government. Madam President, I would like The service of our three authorities The Swedish Customs Agency, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten have continuously improved and will continue to improve. This brings with it an increasingly widespread use of e-services. That, of course, is good. Services must continue to develop as modern and well-functioning services. Madam President, I would like The presence of the state throughout the country is central to society at large. Authorities have an important role to play in ensuring that decentralised localisation is applied. You're there for every citizen and every company. It is also important to contribute through presence to development and growth around the country. Technology development makes it easier for authorities to carry out decentralised activities and to be around the country. The presence of public authorities also contributes to improving the labour market. When private businesses are to recruit people, preferably key people, it is important that there is a mix of private employers and government employers in place. Three years ago, the Swedish Tax Agency announced the closure of operations in a number of locations in the country. It was nine plus two places. This was not done for economic reasons, but was justified by the fact that the Swedish Tax Agency would be where companies were and where companies will be in the future. Places that were affected include Värnamo in the Gnosjö region, Enköping and Lycksele – to name a few. The IRS then backed up, and that was commendable. The enforcement authority is now making the same journey, but to a somewhat lesser extent. It is intended to concentrate and centralise activities. It was announced that operations from Hudiksvall, Mora and Arvika would be moved. Operations were moved to locations such as Uppsala, Falun, Gävle, Sundsvall and Karlstad. Certain criteria have been set for the presence of the Enforcement Authority. The city centre, the municipality, must have at least 20 000 inhabitants. You're supposed to have a college or a university. Such criteria mean that the Swedish Enforcement Authority declines to exist in many localities in the country that could usefully contribute to a good location of the Swedish Enforcement Authority. What is worse, however, is that it clearly contradicts what Parliament and governments of different colours have said on several occasions. What is now being done means, of course, that the Kronofogdemyndigheten – as some people point out – uses the situation when we have only had a transitional government. What could prove that it is true is that the relocation and closure of office activities is carried out by 31 March 2021. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I find this extremely remarkable. There must be a stop to government leaders defying political decisions and political signals from the government and parliament. You have to look after the whole country. There should be no contribution to urbanisation, nor should there be any contribution to regional cleavage. Here, the enforcement officer has to redo and do the right thing. Having said that, I would like to refer to the Special Opinion of the Centre Party in the Tax Committee's report on Category 3.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-238	Madam President, I would like We have a special opinion in the committee's report – this in relation to how the budget has been managed. These frameworks and areas of expenditure debated in this House will then be implemented by a transitional government. A transitional government is therefore required to implement the economic policies of other parties, in this case a budget that hits the sick, the unemployed, the homeless, equality and the environment hardest. The efforts are being made on the very richest and their way of life, which is simply to receive tax subsidies even more. Even free public transport for children and young people during the summer holidays could not be avoided, nor the reinforcement to LSS that the Christian Democrats boasted. It wasn't the 1.6 billion. The money was obviously needed for even greater tax cuts for Sweden's richest. Very nice priority, KD! There are, of course, aims for a budgetary process to go through in an orderly manner. One aim is for the Swedish Government to function as before so that the next government can implement its direction with stability and order. That's the thing about the government and the budget being connected. When the government previously cooperated with the Left Party and when we pushed for progressive and fair changes, it became a budget with a focus that clearly improves our common welfare. The Left Party has made a lot of progress in the budget negotiations. These are things that actually improve the lives of the people concerned. We are serious that Sweden must become more equal and then the rich must pay their share. If we are to build an economy for everyone, then we must also redistribute power and money with a fair tax system. Welfare needs more resources and fewer job tax deductions. Madam President, I would like Later this afternoon, we will decide on the framework for three authorities under the Tax Committee. The Left Party has previously negotiated fair settlements in order for Sweden to stick together. From mills and sparsely populated municipalities to towns and districts. It is about efforts for jobs, education and service. We want everyone to be able to live where you want to live in Sweden. However, this requires a level playing field throughout the country. Our strategy is based on solidarity, long-termism and a clear responsibility for the state to ensure that basic public services exist throughout the country, including through the relocation of state authorities and the development of infrastructure. Access to basic public services must be guaranteed wherever you live. These may include access to medicines, safe maternity care, functioning broadband and general welfare. For a long time the service has been depleted in parts of Sweden. Belief in market forces has been stronger than the desire for political responsibility. Public services have been withdrawn, with the effect that shops have been forced to close again and jobs disappear. That can't be allowed to continue. Politics must assume its responsibilities, and the presence of state authorities must also be in smaller towns around the country. The bailiff is one of the authorities that we are deciding on today. In recent decades, the agency has gone from 95 to 37 local offices. The Authority has significantly reduced its local presence. Recently, it was also decided to close down Hudiksvall, Mora and Arvika. Then the service will also disappear, not least in terms of prevention or financial support. For us, it is obvious that even smaller towns should be able to have government service and presence. Madam President, I would like Another authority we decide on today is the Swedish Tax Agency. It is a central authority in the fight against tax evasion. We have one autumn behind us with several major revelations about tax evasion and money laundering with links to major Swedish banks. Before that, several revelations have been lined up: Luxembourg Leaks at the end of 2014, Panama Papers during 2016 and Paradise Papers last year. This autumn it has been revealed about the cum-ex files dealing with stock trading, about the transfer of ownership at the dividend point in order to receive refunded coupon tax. Variations in tax evasion have been aggressive and advanced, and here legislation needs to be tightened up properly, especially when it has become apparent that lawyers, law firms and tax advisors, together with banks, are also helping with illegal tax schemes. Despite the fact that more than SEK 130 billion are plundered from our common welfare and a large part is moved directly to tax havens, there are parties in the Riksdag who prefer to see people fleeing war as a problem. Tiggers and the poorest are being debated as a problem. If you want to debate refugees and costs, yes, here you have tax evasion who plunder Swedish welfare! This is undoubtedly our biggest social problem. We need to criminalise tax evasion and its aid. Today it is not criminalised, but the anti-avoidance provisions that we have in the Tax Avoidance Act. But the only thing that happens if you are convicted of breaking that law is that you should pay the tax that you would have paid. Banks guilty of tax evasion should lose their right to act as a bank in Sweden. We believe that tax evasion and aid must be criminalised and that prison sentences can be imposed. Legislation needs to be tightened up at several levels. A lot of resources are being lost, and it's the rest of us who have to pay the bill. But there is, after all, such a logic in the budget that lies: taking from the poor and giving to the rich. Or as Moderates and KD's own calculations show: a public debt of 94.4 billion already in 2021.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-255	Madam President, I would like We were told here that the parliamentary order is not as important a tool as we might think in this House. I do not share the opinion of the Left Party. It is absolutely right that we have a transitional government that has followed a number of principles in terms of a transitional budget. But Parliament has the financial power, and this is where we have the opportunity in democratic order to present our political proposals. That's what we've done. As far as I know, the Moderates and the Right have done so as long as they have been in this House. This time we and the Christian Democrats also had the opportunity to hear our financial perspectives. It is all based on an alliance reform agenda. We simply took the transitional government's budget and removed the absolutely worst. It was about blows to entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship. We have made sure that those who work get more in their wallet. A nurse who works extra on Friday night should not pay more than 50 percent tax for it. These are the changes we have made. We have therefore adjusted the transitional government's budget. Everything else, such as assets for government agencies, is actually on the table of the Riksdag. Something I wonder about and which I missed in the appeal of the Left Party here is how you intend to address the societal challenges that stand outside the door. In the past, it has been noted that this year we have had the most killings ever. We also know that customs tools to work in the first line to limit arms smuggling enable us to bring fewer illegal weapons to Sweden. However, the Left Party has not contributed to the Customs Agency receiving the necessary resources for this. Why haven't you?
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-261	Madam President, I would like Cecilia knows very well that the transitional budget is not political. It's not a V-MP-S budget. When the principles were developed, the parties agreed that it would be a transitional budget. The Moderates left the room. We know what you've done. You have become dependent on the Swedish Democrats. You have adapted and specially designed a budget so that the Swedish Democrats could vote for it. That's how you want to take power. You want to create disorder. I think you should stand by that. When we met at the Ministry of Finance, the Moderates called it developing practice. But to be honest, you have done nothing but complicate practices. As far as prevention is concerned, there is nothing in your budget. It is through prevention that we want to combat crime. Above all, there must be a proper school where children and young people can go and get the education they are entitled to. In the same way, it is with public service and general welfare. You should have options in your welfare so you can get a good schooling. But you do not think that is the most important thing; instead, you talk directly about the criminals. Yes, they exist. We supported the proposal when the government gave the Swedish Customs increased funding. We see that as important. We do not want any introduction of weapons or drugs into Sweden. However, we think that prevention in particular is very important. In this area, the Moderates are not so strong.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-267	Madam President, I would like I note that the Left Party's Tony Haddou does not answer the specific question I asked. This has nothing to do with the transitional budget. The Left Party has for four years applauded Stefan Löfven and the Social Democrats and said that they have had the best proposals for Sweden. It's with those you've negotiated with the budget. However, this has not been enough. Maybe Tony Haddou hasn't seen that outside our doors, shootings are taking place in a way that we haven't had in the past. More illegal weapons enter Sweden than ever before. We want to put an end to this. The trade union Tull-Kust and the Swedish Customs Agency have asked for more resources and opportunities to do so. The government and the Left Party have not responded to that. Now, however, the Riksdag has made such a decision, so we can now begin work on reversing developments. The left-wing party, however, is guilty of the answer. Why have you not contributed to this? You had four years.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-271	Madam President, I would like I think Cecilia knows very well what we have achieved in the budget negotiations. We think it is a good policy, especially in terms of increased welfare. This enables children and young people, among other things, to have a safe schooling course. On the other hand, you do not care about prevention. Instead, you are talking about market rents, for example. Do you seriously believe that children and young people will have a safe schooling or good community development if they can be threatened by eviction during childhood? No, they can't. It is all the preventive measures that you do not care about, but that we have instead cared about when we have negotiated the budget. We want you to be able to grow up in Sweden with equal welfare, regardless of where you live in the country. You have based solely on the logic of the market. Whoever has the thickest wallet will get it best. We do not believe this.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-274	Madam President, I would like This area of expenditure concerns, as we have heard here before, three very important and central authorities in society. It is about the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Enforcement Authority. The three authorities together have a budget of approximately SEK 11.5 billion. Through our budget reservation, we in the Christian Democrats and the Moderates have added another SEK 120 million. $30 million goes to the IRS, and $90 million goes to customs. The transitional government has presented a transitional budget and has done so in a perfectly reasonable way. But Parliament is not a transitional holiday. It is a parliament with full powers and full responsibility. The Constitution is clear that the financial authority rests with the Riksdag. It is the Riksdag that has the power to decide on taxes and expenses. The Christian Democrats, together with the Moderates, have ensured that the Riksdag now uses these constitutional powers. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Tax Agency is a central authority for our society to function. It is gratifying that the Authority enjoys a high level of public confidence. It is a good thing that the authority has a high level of service, not least through digital services that make it easier for individuals to declare, for example. The payment of taxes is not the only thing that has been simplified thanks to digitalisation. On the contrary, society is changing widely by various digital services, and a completely new economy is emerging in the collaborative economy. I think we have only seen the beginning of this development. Here the public Sweden needs to come along. Authorities need to be up-to-date, and regulations need to be designed so that it is easy to do the right thing. Work to improve support and administration for users in the collaborative economy is now being strengthened with the Christian Democrats and Moderates' budgets. Madam President, I would like The vast majority of our society want to do and do the right thing. The tax to be paid is paid. It contributes to a society with high confidence not only in the authority but also in other people. Confidence and trust are the cornerstones of a well-functioning society, and it is very important to combat cheating and abuse of the system. That is why the fight against tax evasion and evasion is an important task for the Swedish Tax Agency, which we are now strengthening. Madam President, I would like The Customs Agency is an authority that needs to grow during this term of office. Unfortunately, I have to say, because it is a consequence of the illegal trade in, among other things, arms and drugs and of the theft gangs taking stolen goods out of the country. The law enforcement activities of the Customs Service must be strengthened both to prevent the introduction of goods that we do not want here and to prevent the export of stolen goods that the right owners would have liked to have kept here. The Customs Agency also needs increased powers to arrest suspects in order for us to curb the crime that exists. But other things are also happening in the world around us that require us to strengthen customs. New barriers to trade are being set up as Britain now leaves the EU in a way that we cannot yet see the consequences of. It risks affecting Swedish companies and thus also jobs in Sweden, as the UK is one of our most important trading partners. This places demands on the Swedish Customs Agency, as trade with the UK now risks demanding resources in a way that has not been done for a long time. This is also why the Customs Agency's budget must be strengthened. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats and the Moderates, by presenting a joint budget reservation, wanted the Riksdag to address the societal challenges that exist in several areas. There are, of course, further things that a new government must urgently address, but with the adoption of our joint budget reservation by Parliament, several steps are now being taken in the right direction. I'm very happy about that.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-285	Madam President, I would like Over Europe, a wag of conservative nationalism washes. In many of our neighbouring countries, we are seeing xenophobic parties gaining ever greater influence. Unfortunately, it will also be clear what the effects will be. It can be seen in Denmark, Poland and Hungary. The Christian Democrats and the Moderates sit in the European Parliament in the same party group as the Hungarian Fidesz and Italian Forza Italia. Last Wednesday, the Moderates and Christian Democrats chose to join forces and seek support from the Swedish Democrats for the budget that was voted through. It has been clear on several occasions that the Christian Democrats do not think that there is a problem. We have heard the point of transitional holiday. You seek support for your own policy. Then it is not a problem for someone else to vote for it, as they say. Madam President, I would like I have a few questions for the Christian Democrats. Do you share the concern about the developments that we see in many of Europe's countries regarding nationalism and conservatism? What do you intend to do to ensure that the development that we see in the countries that I mentioned will not have an impact in Sweden as well? If you share this description of the problem, I wonder what responsibility you feel you have in this.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-288	Madam President, I would like Yes, we have chosen to go forward with the policy that we believe is best for Sweden. I don't see anything strange in it. We've compromised. We've negotiated with the Moderates. We would have liked to have negotiated with the other alliance parties about the policy that we think is best for Sweden. In September 2013, the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party put forward a proposal to stop the list of the lower tiers that the then alliance government had in its budget. The lower layer limit is what is commonly called the state tax limit. So the Alliance government wanted to raise the threshold for the payment of the state tax. The red-green proposal was then supported by the Swedish Democrats. The three red-green parties and the Swedish Democrats therefore together stopped the tax cut that the Alliance wanted to implement. I take the speech that Rasmus Ling has now made as saying that it was wrong for the Red-Green parties to present their policies at that time and to have the support of the Swedish Democrats for it. A counter-question may well be: Does this mean that the Green Party will now refrain from putting forward proposals that can get the support of the Swedish Democrats? We have gone forward with the policy that we believe is best for Sweden. We've done it together with the Moderates. We would be happy to negotiate with further alliance parties. That's my answer to the question.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-294	Madam President, I would like However, it was not an answer to the question that I asked about how to look at the overall development in Europe and what to do to ensure that this development does not have an impact in Sweden. It would have been one thing if we had tabled individual proposals and won a majority in individual votes. But here it is a question of forming a new conservative bloc. You're getting more and more together. The old, socially oriented Christian Democratic Party that once existed under the leadership of Alf Svensson is very distant from the Christian Democratic Party we see today. I would urge you to take responsibility and keep right. You should not give xenophobic parties power over the Tax Agency, the Kronofogde or the Customs – not over anything anywhere.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-298	Madam President, I would like I am delighted with the fine words about Alf Svensson, who was once actually my boss. It's an assessment of Alf that I share. The Christian Democrats are a Christian Democratic Party. It is based on the equal and inviolable value of all people, on the idea that all people are unique and have value for who they are. We are concerned about all the forces that in different ways counteract the unique and inviolable value of people, whether they are here at home in Sweden, whether they are in other parts of Europe or whether they are elsewhere in the world. As I said, we have cooperated with the Moderates. We believe that it is a party that is very close to us. We also want to cooperate with the Liberals and the Center Party, with which we also have a common value base. These are the parties with which we cooperate. We cannot have any views on which parties are voting in favour of our policy.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-302	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Hampus Hagman, for your speech. My question is, above all, about the authorities we are dealing with in the Committee on Taxation – I shall come to them. But after all, it feels like you didn't have a plan when you voted out Stefan Löfven, and you don't seem to have a big plan right now, unless it is to take the support of the Swedish Democrats. The budget you are presenting is in many ways contradictory, not least in relation to what you have said before. You say that you want to work against honour-related violence and oppression, for example, but close the Equality Authority. You say you want to work against alienation, but you cut down properly in the Delegation against segregation. You say that you want to get more people into work, but you are cutting back properly in the Employment Service, not least in the labour market programmes for the long-term unemployed and newcomers. You want to build more, but you're cutting off government investment aid. You want to amplify the LSS. But the Christian Democrats sat down in the back seat of the Moderates, and you don't really know if it's SD running or not. As far as environmental and climate issues are concerned, I did not have much higher expectations, so it is fair enough. Now I come to the authorities that we are dealing with today. The previous government has worked to relocate our agencies so that the whole of Sweden can live and so that you can get public service even in smaller places. What is your plan for our rural authorities?
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-307	Madam President, I would like I can say that I am pleased that Tony Haddou nevertheless chose to ask questions about the authorities that we have in this area of expenditure. I noted that there was a great deal that you, Tony Haddou, wanted to debate which is not within the scope of this spending area. It is clear from the fact that the budget that you voted for last week meant that, for example, the Customs Agency would have to wait for further information on how to deal with any problems that might arise as a result of Brexit. We have now dealt with this because we presented our policy to the House together with the Moderates. Madam President, I would like As Tony Haddou says, it is important that there are authorities throughout the country. I myself think it is a very important question and have therefore written an individual motion that I want to move an authority to Gothenburg. There's supposed to be service all over the country. It's absolutely fundamental.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-309	Madam President, I would like The reason I brought this up with the authorities is because it is about what you say and how you then act. Gothenburg is not exactly a small town or is located in sparsely populated areas. But it is good that Hampus Hagman lifts this up. One example is the Kronofogden, who now has a decision to close down in places such as Hudiksvall, Arvika and Mora. It is a decision that we in the Left Party simply want to tear up. Will you act to tear up such a decision so that public services in smaller towns, Hampus Hagman, are not put down?
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-311	Madam President, I would like As I said, it is important that there are authorities throughout the country, for example in Gothenburg – although it is not sparsely populated – but also in those parts of the country that are actually sparsely populated. Which agencies are involved and which authority should be located, I cannot go into at the moment. But the Christian Democrats will work for and contribute to the existence of government agencies throughout our elongated country.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-313	Madam President, I would like As a stockholmer, I choose not to comment on whether Gothenburg is rural or not. It is clear that the foundation of a welfare country is that it has a tax system and a levy and that the important authorities around the tax system function. Earlier in the debate, we have heard left-wing people complaining about the logic of the market and about how we should take harder action against individuals and individual companies. I find that regrettable. From my point of view, the very point of this debate is to ensure that our tax collection is better and that it is smoother and easier for businesses and individuals. We must ensure that we have a level of taxation that is competitive in the rest of the world, and we must update our systems and laws so that those who engage in sharing economies also have reasonable bureaucracy and can develop their entrepreneurship. The previous government raised the tax by SEK 45 million a day. 45 million a day increased the burden on entrepreneurs, on individuals, on those who create resources and prosperity – on those who are the basis of our welfare. At the same time, money was being spent on subsidies to already wealthy people. Money was cut on bus cards to all children, including children whose parents earn a lot of money. Money was spent on e-bike subsidies to all people, including those who earn a lot of money. If you want to work on equality and on a fair tax system that receives a great deal of trust from the citizens, then I do not think that is how you should work. Instead, it should be ensured that a low and competitive tax is levied in a way that is perceived as constructive and does not burden businesses and individuals with too much bureaucracy. There's been a lot of talk about tax evasion here. Of course, I and the Liberals support the fact that the tax we are legislating on paying is also to be paid. We must have international systems and rules that ensure that no one gets away with paying taxes as they should. But we must also ensure that we have tax levels that are so competitive that Sweden is a country that you want to move to and work in and not escape because the tax is too high. If we want to combat tax evasion, we must both reduce the tax so that fewer people want to escape, or have to flee, and have tough regulations and authorities that are able to enforce the law. Madam President, I would like I belong to a party which is in favour of internationalisation, of free trade, of globalisation and also of urbanisation, which someone was barking at here earlier. I am also in favour of European cooperation. I believe that these are things that we can get the benefits from and also strengthen by the European people agreeing together on solutions to what tax systems should look like, how to combat fraud and how to combat cross-border crime. Like I said, someone here was talking about the logic of the market. In fact, the ultimate role of the tax system is to maintain capitalism as a system: capitalism in the sense of universal and equal ownership, that is, that all people should have equal and equal rights to own, that all people should be able to trade in the same goods on equal terms and that one should know that no one can steal the things that one owns from one. That is why it is so important to have a customs duty that works, a customs duty that has both the power to control things that enter the country and things that leave the country. Everyone must have the same right to trade, and must be able to trade, with the same goods on equal terms. It is also important because we need to stop what is criminal to bring in, such as drugs and illegal weapons. The previous government put quite a lot of gunfire into trying to prevent people from using legal weapons of various kinds, which is very remarkable, because criminal gangs do not use legal weapons. They're using illegal weapons, and these are being brought across our borders. There, the previous government has been weak and has not invested enough in customs, as is repeatedly shown in the shootings that we have discussed earlier in the debate. The parties that have supported the previous government then say that this is only a transitional budget. Yes, but it is a transitional budget based on the previous years when year after year you have failed. Customs must be a front line towards the introduction of this type of goods, and I am pleased that the Liberals in their proposal – which unfortunately did not win over in this House – wanted to spend SEK 150 million more on customs. I am sorry that the transitional budget did not include spending on customs or that the government has not done so in previous years. I also regret that the Moderates and Christian Democrats in their budget have not made sufficient efforts to strengthen customs. Of course, when they come up here in the speaker's seat with such big words, you would also like to see a little more money behind the words. I would like them to reach at least the 150 million that the Liberals would have liked to see invested here. Madam President, I would like In Tensta, where I live, which is not rural but well part of the big city of Stockholm, we see the consequences of the previous government's policy. It is in Tensta and similar areas that parents fear that their children will be shot and dragged into criminal gangs and drug trafficking. It is also the case that you see quite few electric bicycles in the square of Tensta or in the bike room of my house. There are quite few people who have received the fruit of the policy of the previous government. But there are quite a few more than at Södermalm, where there may be more electric bicycles, who are afraid that their children will be shot. It is clear that if you want a state and a tax system that receives a great deal of confidence from the citizens, then you cannot spend money on subsidies to already rich people. Instead, one must invest in the core business of the state. The Liberals wanted to do this in their proposal by removing money from subsidies for things that are not central government's core business, such as bus cards for rich children and e-bike subsidies. Instead, we should spend money on things that are the core business of the state, such as customs, and ensure that we do not get the introduction of illegal weapons that end up in criminal gangs in my area and ensure that we do not have the introduction of drugs that eventually go to fund these gangs. It is again a question of not subsidising things that actually only benefit people who are already making a lot of money. Madam President, I would like Sweden needs to lower the tax. Sweden needs to levy taxes in a way that is less bureaucratic and favours entrepreneurship. We need to defend our capitalist system by having a tariff that works, and we need to make sure that we invest in what is the core business of the state, Madam President. Unfortunately, the Liberals' budget has fallen, otherwise I would of course have voted in favour of it. I would now like to highlight our particular opinion.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-330	Madam President, I would like Joar Forssell from the Liberals gave an interesting speech with many bottoms. I have to concentrate on some things because I have limited time. For the Swedish haulage industry, the situation is pretty tough; it has tough competition from companies in many countries. Competition is good, but we know that there is cheating and competition that is not fair, which is a problem. It is a question of non-compliance with existing rules, and it can apply from non-compliance with agreed working time rules to the nature of the vehicles – which also means safety problems in traffic. It can also apply to cheating with the Eurovignette fee, which you have to pay to have the right to drive in Sweden. There has been some discussion about changing the system by removing the Eurovignette fee and instead having a distance-based charge. It has sometimes been called road wear tax and sometimes mileage tax and other things. It has stirred up some feelings from time to time, and in part I think it's because of misunderstandings– you think that it's something that would be put on, not replace. Such a system would facilitate enforcement. We could have a digital system and through it also improve competition for Swedish haulage companies. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to ask the Liberals, Madam President, whether they are prepared to consider more unconditionally – without upset feelings from the outset – whether a distance-based charging system would be something to introduce instead of the time-based system we have today.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-334	Madam President, I would like I think even Rasmus Ling quite often gets upset and emotional. You were probably one of those outside the Riksdag a few days ago with big placards and emotionally chanted that M's and KD's budget is only at 2016 level when it comes to environmental charges, Rasmus. I am also upset about this. I am also upset that we are spending too little on the climate and that we do not have enough taxes on things that are bad for the climate. I welcome any initiative that can lead to a better tax system – a tax system that is more difficult to escape, which maintains competition between different companies on fair, equal terms and ensures that we can continue to have competition from the outside world. Madam President, I would like There is and has been an opportunity to have unbiased discussions on this. Liberals are the party that has perhaps pushed the longest the issue of a major tax reform in which we look at all kinds of taxes and both, for example, raise taxes very much on things that are bad for the climate and lower taxes on labour. If the Green Party had released a little more prestige on the government issue and joined the Alliance properly, I think this might have been there. If the Green Party had been able to be a little more constructive rather than focusing solely on opposition, I think they might have been able to achieve greater success. I understand that it is nice to stand with placards outside the Riksdag, and I understand that it feels good to have your movement in the back. However, if we are to have an unbiased discussion, it is clear that we are starting it within the framework of greater work, where we are reviewing the tax system in general and safeguarding competition. That's what I'm completely open to doing together with Rasmus Ling.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-338	Madam President, I would like The liberals have perhaps been better than their reputation when it comes to environmental taxes. They have also not always pointed it out themselves, but let the Center Party be the green vote, but surprisingly often we see in the budget that they have had environmental taxes that not everyone has noticed. Sometimes there has been more concern about getting money in to finance tax cuts that they have wanted to see, but nevertheless – although they were unable to resist in the last parliamentary term in terms of fertiliser and reducing eutrophication. I would very much welcome a major tax reform. There would be a need for a powerful green tax shift. On the question of government, we in the Green Party are in no way concerned with prestige; we have been and will be constructive in this. The problem is, among other things, that our two parties, the Liberals and the Green Party, did not get enough votes to make it an alliance solution.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-340	Madam President, I would like It is strange to say that we want to reduce the tax while at the same time wanting to increase the tax on things that are bad for the climate. We are increasing taxes on things that are bad for the climate to lower other taxes; that is, of course, what is green tax exchange. That's the difference between your party and mine, Rasmus Ling: When we talk about green tax exchange, we come forward with such proposals for real. When the Green Party talks about tax shifting, they raise taxes on things that are bad for the climate, Madam President, while they sit in an S-government and raise taxes on everything else as well. It's unserious to call it a green tax exchange. I strongly oppose the idea that the Center should be the green voice of the Alliance. On the contrary, we are the party in the Alliance that removes the subsidies on diesel and things that are bad for the climate around the country. We are the ones who ensure that taxes on environmentally harmful activities are significantly increased wherever they are. That's what we and no one else in the Alliance do.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-342	Madam President, I would like Our three fiscal authorities – the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Enforcement Authority and the Swedish Customs Agency – are very important for the entire Swedish legal chain. I was recently on a full day visit to the Swedish Customs Agency in Helsingborg, and what I heard was touched and called for reflection. The Customs Agency is perhaps the one of the three fiscal authorities that acts to the greatest extent in law enforcement. The Customs Agency has two main tasks: firstly, the collection of duties, taxes and other charges, and secondly, the pure law enforcement, where illegal imports of alcohol, drug smuggling and the smuggling of arms are to be prosecuted. When I learned about the extent of alcohol smuggling, for example, it made me come to my senses. We are talking about millions of shops, where it is hardly a matter of private use and where some of the biggest losers are our young people, who today are much easier to get their hands on alcohol than was the case in the past. It is certainly clear to everyone in this House that the Customs Service needs tools to strengthen its work to protect our borders and combat crime. It is also about being able to maintain good conditions for our companies to trade with other countries. But it does not have to be just an increase in funding, Madam President – at least as important is that we in here, through new legislation, can give the Customs Authority the tools it needs. A change of legal clauses can give greater powers and have a major impact on how the work's practical work is carried out. As many have mentioned, it is about giving customs the power to stop stolen goods on their way out of the country, for example. But this is not only done by a change in a legal clause, but also by the need for resources and perhaps major organisational changes. The Center Party also proposes that the Customs Agency be given the power to search postal and courier consignments for illegal goods – also other than narcotics. Many people have touched on the smuggling of weapons, and the Center Party believes that it should have its own criminal rubmentation. We also want hand grenades to be counted as weapons. It is in the nature of things that the legislation cannot lag behind if crime is to be prosecuted. In a globalised world, customs activities are being put to the test, and it is important to combat organised crime with targeted measures, while maintaining openness to the outside world. The Swedish Parliament needs to ensure that the Swedish Customs Agency has legislation that is appropriate for its operations. Last year, the Finnish Customs seized considerably more drugs than in the previous years. This is an increase on a broad front, in which, not least, amphetamine and cannabis seizures stand out, largely due to large seizures in heavy goods traffic. During our visit, we saw how a mobile scanner searched for a truck container – an expensive but very effective investment to find hidden drugs in cars and containers, in places that would be impossible to suspect or to see with the naked eye. I am convinced that every crown invested in the Swedish Customs Agency will give almost as much back. We know what the consequences are for young people to have easier access to alcohol; the same is true for drugs. Madam President, I would like The Swedish legal chain must work, and here our three fiscal authorities are as central as the police, the Prison Service and the Prosecution Authority. It is not a solution to invest unilaterally in more police – one can sometimes get the impression that this is the only measure. In May 2014, the Alliance government initiated an investigation to monitor the effectiveness of some of the authorities in the justice chain. Unfortunately, that investigation was closed after the 2014 elections, but I can see that the need to strengthen the justice chain has increased since then. When those who commit crimes find new ways to work, the authorities must also do the same. There is therefore a need for continuous work in many areas. I see a great need to ensure in the coming years that the justice chain not only works well but also becomes stronger. Madam President, I would like In view of this afternoon's vote, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 3 from the Center Party and reservation 6 from the Alliance.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-352	Madam President, I would like Last Wednesday, the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats decided on the financial perspectives that will apply for the coming years. It is a budget that has been called a tissue sketch, and we do not fully know what its consequences are because many of the proposals are ill prepared and have not been impacted. To take an example, the whole year was budgeted for removing the free entrance at state museums. It was not possible because the time is too short, so the committee had to change this and save in another area. During this week, there will be a trifle going on in all committees to get this in place as far as possible. Since the elections, nothing has happened so far on the government issue, which has brought us closer to a solution, but a great deal has happened politically. The Moderates said that before the elections they did not want to cooperate with the Swedish Democrats at any level, but in two municipalities, Bromölla and Sölvesborg, they have nevertheless voted for that party to lead and hold the position as Chairman of the Municipal Executive Board, the heaviest task that exists in a municipality. In Staffanstorp in Skåne, the Moderates took power together with the Swedish Democrats, not because it was needed but because they wanted to. It would have been easy to get a majority together with one or more alliance parties, but it felt that it was closer to the Swedish Democrats politically. This says a lot about how the political landscape has changed very quickly. The moderate, Christian-democratic and Swedish-democratic budget that went through Parliament last Wednesday is also a budget that, as is usually said, focuses on dismantling measures taken by the former Red-Green Government to improve the environment and reduce emissions. Had this not been so sad, it would have been almost impressive. In the time of the climate crisis and at the time of the Katowice Summit, to make it cheaper to fly by abolishing the prudent air tax, without having any alternatives, is incomprehensible. The same applies to the reduction in VAT that has been introduced on simpler repair services. The Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats chose to raise VAT again. Something that would benefit recycling and re-use was chosen to remove, as was the reduced VAT on natural guides. The same applies to the indexation of environmental taxes, which gave predictability and made it not drastic changes but that the increase took place step by step and year by year, so that households and businesses had the chance to find alternatives. This is very sad, Madam President. As the framework has been set, I refer to the specific opinion that has been presented.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-359	Madam President, I would like The Moderates and Christian Democrats have achieved their budget in the Riksdag thanks to the Swedish Democrats. This means that Sweden backs in time in a way that stands in brutal contrast to the situation we are in. We know that a strong green policy is needed to keep us below the 1.5-degree target, and for this we need to severely limit our emissions. Swedish air travel has doubled in less than 30 years, and we now fly about five times more than a global average. We are more than 100 000 Swedes who will refrain from flying in the coming year. But more is needed from politicians. One step is to stop subsidising flights. Today, aviation is subsidised by having duty-free fuel and exemptions from several EU chemicals regulations. The airline sells duty-free, which also benefits the industry. Out in the country, taxpayers pay a large part of the cost of expansion and maintenance of airports. In the midst of the Katowice climate summit, the Moderates and Christian Democrats are getting through a budget where it will be cheaper to fly by abolishing the almost embarrassingly low flight tax and giving aviation even greater tax advantages. Madam President, I would like At the same time as people, including schoolchildren, strike for the climate outside and try to get politicians to give priority to the greatest question of our time, the Moderates and Christian Democrats respond by wanting to make petrol and diesel even cheaper. They are thus actively increasing fossil subsidies by freezing the so-called indexation, an annual increase in petrol tax. This makes emissions from cars even cheaper. So this is happening in the midst of an ongoing climate crisis, where we need to invest all our political and willpower in changing society, away from business as usual. To dare to claim that this is being done to benefit the countryside is a mockery of all landowners who, according to the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats, will not receive compensation for their valuable land. At the same time, support is being taken to set up predatory fences. The Moderates and Christian Democrats make it more expensive with nature guidance in rural areas by raising VAT from today's 6% to 25%. This will mean deteriorating conditions for a green industry that contributes with knowledge and experiences. With increased urbanisation, many people now lack contact with nature, and it is precisely this type of industry that needs to be strengthened, not weakened. The Moderates and Christian Democrats do this primarily to benefit those who are already the richest in Sweden. Their tax cuts bring 23.5 times more to the richest tenth of the world compared to the poorest tenth. Those who earn more than $2,000 a month will now pay less than $500 in tax. The right-wing conservative budget cuts from the green changeover. It cuts from the most vulnerable, and it cuts into the hearts of all who work for a green and just world. As a transitional government, the Social Democrats and the Green Party, together with the Left Party, have chosen to follow the practice and put forward a transitional budget. But the new practice in this house seems to be following practice when it best benefits one's own interests. Therefore, with the support of the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and Christian Democrats have chosen to release the demand for a good preparation of the matters to be decided by the Riksdag. The transitional budget does not fit within the financial framework that has already been decided. I choose not to take part in the decision on the spending area of our committee, and a more detailed discussion of this is contained in the joint specific opinion in the report.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-368	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to point out what I think is a double approach by the four bourgeois parties. On the one hand, they commend the expedition government that has presented the draft budget for 2019. They commend it for having acted responsibly and created a practice for how a budget can be worked out in the unusual situation that Sweden is currently in. The method used by the government and the practice created by the expedition government is to list the 2018 budget with price and salary increases, already decided legislative changes, commitments here in the Riksdag and commitments resulting from EU decisions. The tax reduction proposed for pensioners is anchored in the parliamentary parties. The budget provides a good starting point for a newly-responsive government to present an amending budget that gives Sweden the political direction that that government wants to take our country in. This therefore commends the four bourgeois parties on the one hand. On the other hand, each of the bourgeois parties puts forward budgetary motions in a situation where we should gather all the strength to give Sweden a new government. Of course, I and all the Social Democrats are eager to start pursuing our policy, and this is, of course, also the case among the bourgeois parties. There's nothing strange about that. But in this situation, the bourgeois parties should have put a strain on themselves and their political zeal and put all the effort on the budget of the government of expeditions to help Sweden get a new government. Doing the right things in the right order is always good, even in politics. Madam President, I would like Now we're in the situation we're in. The Moderates and Christian Democrats, with the support of the Swedish Democrats, have passed their proposal for a budgetary framework. As regards Category 7 International aid, the Moderates have been forced to accept the Christian Democrats' demand that Sweden's aid be 1 per cent of BNI, i.e. SEK 50.7 billion. I welcome that deal between the Moderates and the Christian Democrats. Over a number of years, the Moderates in their draft budgets have wanted a slower escalation to the 1% target under the new BNI and BNP calculation model applicable from 2014. To be honest, I have never believed anything but that the Moderates will have to return to accepting the 1% target here and now if they are to make any deals with the Christian Democrats or with any of the other bourgeois parties. It is somewhat more surprising that the Swedish Democrats have supported a budgetary option that runs counter to the Swedish democratic policy with a sharp reduction in international aid. The spending framework proposed by the Moderates and Christian Democrats is therefore the same as that proposed by the expedition government. However, a change is made: SEK 75 million is transferred from the grant 1.1 Development activities to the grant 1.2. This is not a major change in the context and, above all, no change that a new government could not make in its amending budget if it considered it justified. Madam President, I would like The aid framework is fixed. The change within it is relatively small. We Social Democrats are not taking part in the decision, as the overall proposal for a financial framework in the budget of the government of expeditions was voted down last week. There have been busy times in Parliament's committees since then in shaping spending budgets, as in the Foreign Affairs Committee. Although I do not support the proposed changes by the Moderates and Christian Democrats, I would like to thank you for the openness and sensitivity you have shown in the discussions in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and that you have taken on board the views expressed there.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-377	Madam President, I would like Sweden's largest recipient of aid at the moment is Tanzania. Assistance to Tanzania is aimed, among other things, at strengthening work on sexual and reproductive health and rights. At the same time, in the middle of the cooperation period, Tanzania established a special force to literally hunt LGBTQ people. The conclusion we draw from this is that the Tanzanian Government is not interested in human rights or in cooperating in any real sense, but is only interested in money. We believe that this so-called cooperation should be terminated or substantially cut back. I am a little eager to hear what conclusions the Social Democrats draw from this story and, above all, why this cooperation continues. Why haven't you decided to end it?
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-379	Madam President, I would like It is true that Tanzania is a very large recipient country in terms of Swedish aid. It is also a country where Sweden has been engaged for a long time, in the face of setbacks and setbacks, and will also continue to be engaged. It is important to remember that the aid we are giving to Tanzania today is not budget support to the Tanzanian Government. What is happening now, where LGBTI people are literally being hunted, is quite appalling and has also led both the EU and Sweden to contact the regime and to denounce the utterly disgusting and unsustainable nature of this. One of the effects that Swedish aid has in a country like Tanzania is that we also have channels right into the lead where we can also promote criticism, which is important to remember. If, after all, this is to have any impact on Swedish aid to Tanzania in the future, it remains to be seen. But the most important thing right now is to try to conduct the dialogue with the regime there on the totally unsustainable and unacceptable policy they pursue in this case.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-382	Madam President, I would like I do not want to be rude, but I must point out that what Kenneth G. Forslund says is not true. Our aid strategy for Tanzania currently contains SEK 200 million per year in sector budget support to strengthen that country's finance department. So we are doing budget support. As far as the contact we have is concerned, I wonder a little what the dialogue we are having with Tanzania actually looks like. Didn't they know our position on the matter when they made the decision and established the anti-hbtq task force? Did they not know that we think this is wrong? It almost sounds like that when Kenneth G. Forslund explains the situation with a dialogue being conducted and that it has been denounced. But this is something that they must have known long before we talked about it and that they obviously ignore.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-384	Madam President, I would like First of all, of course, I would like to believe that Swedish positions on, for example, LGBTQ and rights issues are well known worldwide and also in Tanzania. In any case, I believe they are quite well known by the Tanzanian regime. As for what we really have in support, I have to correct you, Ludvig Aspling. It's not budget support we have, it's sector budget support, just like you said. There is an essential technical difference. Sector budget support means that as a donor country you enter a sector that you think is part of the public administration that works less badly or even in a good or better way than the whole. Giving budget support, that is to say giving money in general to the country itself, is something that we do not do. As a matter of fact, that's the way it is. The second is to enter a sector where we believe it can have a positive impact, and that is what we have done in Tanzania.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-387	Madam President, I would like When Sweden faces major challenges within the core of welfare, it is only reasonable that this affects aid as well. Despite the enormous need for investment in the judiciary, healthcare, care and defence, the Swedish Democrats propose that Sweden continue to provide the EU's second largest aid budget. With our proposal, only Luxembourg would have a larger aid framework. Our budget is well above the level recommended by the UN, and the grant for aid activities is also high in historical terms and exceeds the outcome of Swedish aid as late as 2015. The reason why we are proposing a lower aid framework for 2019 is that percent of bni is a blunt instrument that does not take into account the fact that a recession is probably at the door. Based on the 1% target, expenditure in this area increases by around 10 billion over a four-year period. It is an increase that is probably unprecedented in Swedish history and that must be slowed down not only because the needs in other areas are excruciating but also in order to maintain control and quality. There is a clear risk that such a large increase in costs, combined with the fact that aid is subject to far too little control and scrutiny, could lead to large amounts of tax money being spent in a non-quality way. Unfortunately, there are plenty of examples of this already today. Madam President, I would like Today, our main beneficiaries are Tanzania, Somalia and Afghanistan. Let us start with some examples from these countries. The outcome strategy for Tanzania aims, among other things, to increase agricultural production and provide civil society with tools to monitor human rights. A large part of the aid goes to so-called sectoral budget support to strengthen public administration. On the agricultural side, Sida decided during the cooperation period for example on aid of SEK 140 million for a company that planned to grow sugarcane. But after a couple of years and after Swedish taxpayers invested about SEK 54 million in the project, the company went bankrupt and disappeared, without planting a single plant on any of the 20,000 hectares of land they had leased. In addition to the grotesque waste of tax money, the project has also had serious consequences for local small-scale farmers, who have been forced to live in uncertainty as to whether they will be able to remain on the ground. This is a typical example of a so-called lose-lose situation. Nor does support for human rights seem to bear fruit. Sida's own reports speak of a clear and continuously shrinking democratic space. Particularly interesting is that the results strategy points out sexual and reproductive health and rights as an area for Swedish efforts. Sweden paid SEK 1.2 billion in aid to Tanzania in 2017, Madam President, for example to strengthen sexual rights. When Tanzania then at the same time establishes a task force to literally hunt LGBT people, this should reasonably be a rather strong sign that the Tanzanian government completely ignores Sweden's request for human rights and sees Sweden as a callless ATM. It should also be made clear that this type of grant diplomacy does not work and should be phased out or cut down substantially. In Afghanistan, the bulk of aid goes through an instrument called the Afghan Reconstruction Trust Fund, which finances the reconstruction of Afghanistan and some of the current expenditure of the Afghan State. The management of the instrument was subjected to totally devastating criticism in a report by an independent American reviewer earlier this year. According to the report, the World Bank has systematically failed to check to whom the Fund has paid out funds, while the Afghan authorities have not been able to report on who receives the money. For example, the fund routinely pays salaries to teachers without checking that they are real. The phenomenon of so-called ghost teachers, that is, teachers who receive money from a donor but who do not exist, is well documented in Afghanistan. In addition, the donor collective has not been able to give proper guidance on where the money is to be distributed geographically, resulting in payments in areas controlled by Taliban and other rebel groups. The investigator in charge, John Sopko, also points out that the donor collective has deliberately seen between its fingers the embezzlement and the fact that the fund has funded regular warlords, and has fueled corruption by giving too much money, too quickly and with far too little control, and has also exacerbated the military conflict in Afghanistan by undermining public confidence in the Afghan Government and breaking down the morale of its armed forces. Madam President, I would like It is difficult to imagine a worse judgment on an aid project. In Somalia, the vast majority of Swedish aid goes through an instrument known as the UN Multi-Partner Trust Fund, which has a mission and structure similar to that of the Afghan Fund and which is unsurprisingly suffering from similar problems. Already in 2009, the well-known and trusted whistleblower and government official Abdirazak Faartag warned that huge amounts of aid flowed in and out of Somalia's treasury without leaving a trace. In addition, between 2000 and 2008, central government expenditure accounts were kept for only two out of eight years. Faartag also pointed out that the Somali state would be significantly less dependent on aid if almost all customs revenues from the port of Mogadishu did not disappear without trace and if donor countries did not fund projects in areas controlled by al-Shabab, which, of course, as everyone understands, is a pure business for the terrorist organisation. When the World Bank opened the UN Multi-Partner Trust Fund, it was in full knowledge of the conditions. At the same time, the UN Special Rapporteur for Somalia and Eritrea warned that corruption, embezzlement and fraud have in practice become a management system. Despite this, Sweden decided to invest SEK 95 million in the fund in 2015 and another SEK 105 million in 2017. In 2017, a new progress report was also released by the Special Rapporteur who stated that: The Federal Somali authorities are unable to address the widespread corruption The public authorities continue to avoid accounting for revenue by not using the official bank accounts of the State. The mechanism for reviewing public procurement contracts does not work The lack of transparency as to who actually owns companies puts all public procurement at risk of nepotism. But Sweden cannot be deterred. Millions, as far as I understand, will continue to roll. One area of cooperation with Somalia and Afghanistan, on the other hand, which has not failed, is the strengthening of the fundamental human rights of LGBT people, as such work is not at all part of the performance strategies. This leads to the suspicion that the so-called 'value' basis of the so-called feminist government is being applied somewhat elastically visvi countries that draw their LGBTQ legislation directly from the Koran, something that we see as very difficult to defend. Madam President, I would like I would also like us to pay particular attention to the fact that these are only our three largest recipients of aid and that I could continue on this subject for a long time if we had not agreed on a time limit in this debate. The examples of waste, fraud, counter-productivity and failure in aid are as many as they are hair-traveling. This experience should show that it is an area of expenditure in urgent need of reform and slimming. The fact that we are the only party in this House that seems to realise this is, to say the least, worrying. The only thing we can do to improve the situation is to support our reservation.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-406	Madam President, I would like It is not exactly a declaration of love for the aid that Ludvig Aspling and the Swedish Democrats deliver in this House, but we did not expect that either. The solution is reform and slimming according to Ludvig Aspling's conclusion. Reform, I agree. Aid and global development cooperation are in the process of almost constant reform, and this is needed. But when it comes to dieting, Ludvig Aspling, total global aid amounts to USD 150 billion each year. It is estimated that the needs amount to 2.5 trillion U.S. dollars. Ludvig Aspling's conclusion is that a diet is needed. I believe that Ludvig Aspling may not be the only opinion of the Swedish Democrats. But globally, he's probably pretty lonely. My question to Ludvig Aspling, in view of all that we have now heard, is: what is the idea, and what is the feeling in the Swedish Democrats, when you have supported the budgetary framework of the Moderates and Christian Democrats which in this area runs counter to your policy? They do not propose a reduction in aid, but maintain a 1% target, and you want 0.75%. How do you feel?
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-408	Madam President, I would like I try, Kenneth G. Forslund, to avoid talking about feelings in these contexts. But, of course, we will follow up on our reservation. We propose a reduction. This means that we can reserve ourselves for the benefit of our own budget in this area of expenditure. As far as budgets are concerned, I'll leave them to another time. There is nothing we need to discuss here.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-409	Madam President, I would like I can possibly understand that Ludvig Aspling does not want to discuss the fact that the Swedish Democrats here in Parliament have voted in favour of budgetary frameworks that give 1% in aid. I'm actually happy about that. But what about the thought and reasoning? It is a very central part of the Swedish democrats' policy to reduce Swedish international aid from 1% to 0.75%. You have voted in favour of a budgetary framework of 1%.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-410	Madam President, I would like It's true we've done it. At the same time, however, we have reserved for our own budget in this area of expenditure, where we have a lower aid framework. Therefore, I do not quite understand the ambiguities in this regard.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-411	Madam President, I would like For us, aid is a key tool in the work for inclusive and sustainable development. It is a catalyst for achieving the objectives of Agenda 2030 as well. I am pleased that we in this House today have a broad consensus on maintaining the 1% target for aid. In fact, all the parties have voted in favour of this. Not many countries even reach 0.7%, which is actually the international agreement. It is an important signal from this House that Sweden is not following the increasing number of countries that are stepping out of their commitments and making international agreements. The climate summit that just ended in Katowice showed once again how the signals from us and other richer countries build mistrust and fear that we are making demands on them but not on ourselves. It has always been one of the major jobs in trying to reach common agreements, whether it be Agenda 2030 or the Paris Agreement. It can be seen that we have released much of the climate gases and that some countries are leaving the Paris Agreement and also devalue aid promises. It is clear that this will have an impact on the credibility of our agreements. Madam President, I would like We have had to try a transitional budget, as has been shown by previous speakers, from a transitional government. Anyone who reads the Center Party's motion on Category 7 will find that we, in general, have also initiated a transitional motion. We give some signals but not as detailed as we usually do. We have indicated in a minimalist motion that aid is important to maintain at the 1% level. We are marking the values that should apply to aid. We will meet the climate challenge, strengthen democracy and gender equality and respect human rights. Sweden will support freedom fighters, strengthen freedom of expression, improve access to education, especially for girls, and improve health care. We shall provide ambitious support in the event of crises, wars and conflicts in order to prevent, build and create functioning societies. Today, when Sweden celebrates the 100th anniversary of the implementation of democracy, there are parties here in Parliament that actually say that we should not invest in democracy and human rights and that want to cut back heavily on aid, not least in this area. Madam President, I would like 100 years ago there were also parties here in Sweden who thought it was unnecessary to invest in democracy and human rights. But it is clear that a party that pays tribute to authoritarian leaders such as Viktor Orbán and others, who increasingly restrict democracy and human rights, such a party may not be surprised that it does not see the value of democracy and human rights in other parts of the world and that gave us the opportunity to change and build a Sweden of today. Of course, it is also an important way to change for the poorest people in other parts of the world. I want to warn those who listen to the messages from 100 years ago in Sweden to follow in these tracks. That is a direction that leads backwards and not forwards, Madam President. We have a special opinion from the Center Party. We will not be taking part in the decision and we note that this is supported by a minority in the committee.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-420	Madam President, I would like Let me assume that part of the speech was directed against my party. It is true that we are making some cuts in aid for democracy. But it is not because democracy does not have a value in itself – that value is a given – but because that part of the aid works very badly. I would like Kerstin Lundgren to take on board a report from the World Bank called Does Foreign Aid Promote Democracy? And is written by a man named Stephen Knack. He finds the link between democratisation and aid weak. Two other researchers in this field are Paul Collier and the Zambian economist and aid expert Dambisa Moyo. Both warn that too rapid and unplanned democratisation risks destabilising countries. In particular, Mr Moyo stresses that the democratisation of states that do not have the right conditions leads to greater problems than it solves. I would also recommend that Kerstin Lundgren actually read the bill that we are debating today. It states that three out of four of the strategy objectives in the area of democracy and gender equality are not moving in the right direction and that an increased share is going in the wrong direction. The reason we are cutting back here is that the results are poor and that that money can be used for better things in Sweden but also in other parts of the aid, such as the humanitarian parts.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-426	Madam President, I would like Democracy is nothing that happens overnight. It's long-term work. There were many women who struggled for a long time for Swedish women to have the right to vote that has enabled me to be here today. There were many who stood up and tore in many ways for this for a long time. It is clear that if you only have a short-term picture of democracy happening here and now, then perhaps you are pulling down. But if you see the value of long-term work, you realise that it requires us to hold on and endure if we are to achieve the objectives of democracy and human rights. It was 70 years since we received the UN Declaration of Human Rights. It is quite a short time in human history, so we have reason not to give up but to continue. But it is strange, Madam President. I have heard – and I am now revealing a secret, but I am a little curious – that Ludvig Aspling has said that it is better not to invest in aid to poor people above a certain level, because then they start to move. Education, knowledge and dreams of a better future make people move. The Swedish Democrats do not want to see this, so I understand that they want to pull down – not a little, as Mr Aspling said, but 13.1 billion. It's not shame. That is a great deal, Madam President, and it will affect the poorest people, affect the climate, affect equality, affect LGBT people. Where Sweden's aid makes a difference, the Swedish Democrats will cut back.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-429	Madam President, I would like Kerstin Lundgren should be a little more careful about spreading gross lies from the speaker's chair. I've never said that. I've never heard anyone from my party say that. I think that one should keep a certain note and show some respect when conducting these debates. When it comes to not giving up, there is one problem: Some people refuse to give up projects that do not work. They keep plowing millions after millions into things that don't do any good. That's what we're having trouble with, because this money doesn't grow on trees. Every crown we invest in aid projects is a crown that could be invested in other aid projects or other parts of the budget. So when you know that a particular project or area is not working, it is not wrong to give up, finish it and try something else instead.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-431	Madam President, I would like This is a party that claims to want to take the fight against liberal democracy, which is cutting back on aid for democracy and human rights, which clearly has a nationalistic, value-conservative view. On that basis, I understand that you land in about the same tone that could be heard more than a hundred years ago here in Parliament. Madam President, I would like We're not going that way. I warn everyone who has looked too deeply in the Swedish democratic movements to follow that path, because it does not lead forward but backwards.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-433	Madam President, I would like This autumn has been marked by a messy and unsyst process, to say the least. First, the right parties deposed the Prime Minister without having a sustainable alternative. Although 144 red-green members are more than 143 alliance members, the smaller bloc deposed the government, also with the support of the Swedish Democrats. That is why, 99 days after the elections, we still have a transitional government. This transitional government has followed the rules of the game and presented a transitional budget in accordance with the instructions given. It should not include reforms, whether for the benefit of the rich or for the benefit of the majority of the population. Some parties then choose to put forward their own motions, which all prove to benefit those who already have and leave small crumbs or nothing at all to those who already live on scarce resources. Or how about the latest job tax deduction, which together with the rise in government tax cutoff points gives high-paid people even more in their wallets? How about the homework allowance, which benefits those with fancy accommodations? How about everyone who's going to lose their job when government agencies are going to be slimmed out or even shut down? One wonders what the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats have against the low-paid, sick and unemployed when they are to be whipped to work while the rich are to be given an even greater share of the cake. Since the adoption of the budgetary framework, we have seen people participate in major manifestations against the deterioration of Swedish welfare and the fraternization of the rich. Name lists have also been written against, among other things, the closure of the Equality Agency. I did not see the same reactions to free medicines for children, increased maintenance support or the introduction of a gender equality authority. As far as aid is concerned, the Christian Democrats managed to get the Moderates involved in maintaining the 1% target, but what about the coming years? And what happened to the fair words of the Swedish Democrats about helping on the ground? Now they seem to have changed and concluded that if you help people on the ground, those people will flee here. That is why they cut aid by 25%. This would mean that more will be forced to live in extreme poverty, that more women will die in childbirth and that more children will die in their first years of life. This clearly shows the views of the Swedish democrats. With regard to Category 7, which we are debating today, we have had many tours in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I can mention, for example, the framework of authorisation, which exists so that we can have the long-term and effectiveness of aid. The shorter the pay-out periods, the more expensive the administration and worse conditions for the recipients. In the first proposal put forward by the Moderates and Christian Democrats, the framework of authorisation would be reduced by 13 billion. But after the budget manager at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs had explained the enormous impact that this would have, the Moderates and Christian Democrats settled on the level of the transitional budget. That's what happens when you put on a napkin sketch. Madam President, I would like Extreme poverty in the world has decreased dramatically in recent decades. Eight out of ten children are currently receiving measles vaccine. World life expectancy has increased to 70 years, and infant mortality has fallen to under 5%. This shows that it is possible to change if there is a will. But our world has profound injustices. The gaps are great between poor and rich countries, between poor and rich people in each country, and between women and men. The richest percentage already owns as much as the other 99%, and the gaps are increasing all the time. Oxfam's report Reward Work, Not Wealth shows that 82 percent of the wealth growth in 2017 went to the richest part – even the richest percentage – of the world's population. The poorest half, 3.7 billion people, got no increase at all. Last year, the number of dollar billionaires increased faster than any previous year. And you know, 90% of them are men! Their increase in wealth between March 2016 and March 2017 could have eradicated extreme poverty seven times over. Seven times over! Poverty, inequality and inequality have consequences. Over the last two years, hunger has increased. Today, over 650 million people lack access to clean water. Every 90 seconds, a woman dies as a result of complications in childbirth. At the same time, we are seeing democracy in decline around the world. Reactionary, patriarchal and racist currents, often supported by an economic elite, reap success by targeting the cape at the already most vulnerable and by destroying the environment and climate. At this time, a strong policy of equality, justice and sustainable global development is needed. Madam President, I would like We in the Left Party have chosen to take responsibility even though it is not our fault that we in Sweden today have a transitional government that is tied back from making the necessary reforms to create an equal, equal and secure society. That is why this year we will not leave any reservations but choose to abstain from taking part in the decision, with reference to the special opinion that we have together with the Social Democrats and the Green Party. Nevertheless, I would like to clarify what we in the Left Party believe is needed to make aid more accurate and help to reduce and eventually eradicate disparities between the poor and the rich. Aid policy is part of development policy. It is a very important component for achieving the development goals and eradicating poverty, but it is far from the only way. For every aid crown that goes from the rich part of the world to the poor, over $10 goes back in the opposite direction through tax and capital flight. On the basis of the relatively small amount of overall aid, it is particularly important to safeguard aid. Unfortunately, we have to note that developments in several places are going in the opposite direction. Donor countries' estimates of reception costs have increased sharply in recent years. The EU is pushing for the use of aid for military activities to stop people fleeing and has increasingly begun to use it to pressure poor countries to stop people fleeing. At the same time, several EU countries are pushing for a broader definition of private sector aid, which risks leading to aid spending on businesses in rich countries rather than on poor people in poor countries. It's shameful. Madam President, I would like In addition to what I have already mentioned, we in the Left Party, among other things, want the one-percent target to be a minimum. We want to ensure that at least half of the aid goes to girls and women and that at least 10% goes to sexual and reproductive health and rights. We also want to introduce increased climate aid beyond what we already provide in relation to the 1% target. It is an equal, feminist development policy on an economic basis that benefits many – not just a few.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-450	Madam President, I would like I listened with interest to the speech and realise that I have heard it a few times before. For the Left Party, the first of May every day, as it were, is also in this House. I have a specific question. I have read the Left Party's motions; they are ambitious. There is, for example, an ambitious movement on foreign and aid issues and a motion on the dwindling space for civil society organisations. It states, among other things, that democracy and human rights are not negotiable, which is something I can truly endorse. Unlike many other parties, the Left Party attaches great importance to the issue of trade union rights and the right to strike. This is very important and should also be a part of Swedish aid. My question, then, is why it is so very quiet when it comes to the right to strike and the right to trade union organisation in relation to the dictatorship of Cuba. There, the right to strike and the right to form free trade unions are excommunicated in the Constitution. People are imprisoned in Cuba because they want to strike. People are imprisoned in Cuba because they want to join their organisation and demand collective agreements. To the last Congress of the Left Party, one of the party's local departments wrote that Sweden would deepen cooperation with the Communist dictatorship Cuba. The party board was pleased to say that it was rejected – one could not be 100% sure that it would be so, but they did. But some of their motivation makes me a little perplexed. They say that they see Cuba's great social progress and that it inspires people around the world in their struggle for social justice. My question is: how does this rhyme with the fact that the right to strike and free trade unions are banned in Cuba?
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-458	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Fredrik Malm, for the question, although it surprises me somewhat that this and similar questions are asked over and over again even though we repeatedly give the same answer. The reason the motion did not go through is that this is not the line of the party. If, as we write both in our motions and in our party programme, we believe that democracy and human rights are not negotiable, they are not. That is why we have said otherwise, both in articles and when we have been out talking to people or received visits from people who are trying to say that what is happening in Cuba is surely not so serious. It is true, indeed, that literacy has increased, that everyone receives the health care to which they are entitled and so on, but we are still saying so. If all human rights are not met, we cannot support it. It is time to start changing the questions. It is time to start changing the focus area and go on what can actually be criticized instead of highlighting what a few members think and express but which is not the line of the party and which we have repeatedly demonstrated is not our policy.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-461	Madam President, I would like It's great that all people can read in Cuba. The problem is that if they were to read Fredrik Malm's blog they could be put in prison for this. Morals are great, but double standards aren't twice as good. The fact is that the Left Party mentions Bangladesh, India and China in the motions on the right to organise itself trade unionally and the right to strike. You can do that, but you never mention the left-wing dictatorships in Latin America where these rights are also being curtailed. It is clear that the Left Party will then somewhere be responsible for the answer. It wasn't that long ago – it was actually even this year – that the Left Party banner hung on the wall in connection with a tribute meeting for left-wing dictatorships in Latin America. It is clear that we will then come back to these issues, because they are still relevant and very important.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-464	Madam President, I would like It could be seen as double standards if it were said in our party programme that we think it should be like Cuba. That would be double standards. But that is not the case, and so does Fredrik Malm. Unfortunately, the fact that individual members then do and say in this way does not agree with the leadership – where I do not sit – of the party. Neither is our ethics.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-465	Madam President, I would like I must say that I appreciate Kenneth G. Forslund's constructive and good tone in the debate. There was a slightly different tone in Yasmine Posios's post. I would like to clarify a little about the framework for ordering appropriations. It is quite simple that there are two different methods of dealing with the issue. One way is to park the money here, and the other way is to park the money there. When we received guarantees that the money was just to be parked and not spent, we also had no problem changing. A little honesty, please!
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-467	Madam President, I would like Then I guess I'll say thank you for the explanation, Magdalena Schröder! At the same time, it is not possible to get away from the fact that these are things that could have been found out earlier, before making the proposals. After all, it shows what a napkin sketch this budget is.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-468	Madam President, I would like That's not true. It sounds at Yasmine Posio that we have originally made a reduction in the authorisation to order in the exercise. However, it was an extension of the framework that exists today and that we proposed would apply next year. When we found out that we really needed 103 billion and that the government had listed this and when we were given guarantees that the money would be parked, we did not see any problems changing either. I heard something that sounded a little different than in the post. I would like to inform you, Yasmine, that we politicians do not have money. We take money from people who work. I would like to ask you: what does the Left Party want to do to ensure that Swedish taxpayers see the results of their giving in development policy?
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-470	Madam President, I would like Again, these 103 billion did not come as a surprise to you. They were already included in the transitional government budget. If you had taken the time to really cave down and find out what the consequences would be when you present your napkin drawing budget, you would have been able to ensure that this had not happened from the very beginning. We ensure that this is ensured by following the evaluations made by various authorities and – and to a very large extent – by civil organisations. It is because we ensure that civil organisations receive assistance and support that we can have a proper accountability. This applies not only to those who already have much, but also to the people who suffer from non-compliance with the rules that apply.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-472	I would like to remind Members to speak through the President and not to dune each other in the Chamber, but to use first and last names.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-473	Madam President, I would like We now have to debate Category 7 in the state budget. That is what concerns aid or development cooperation, as it is said more correctly. It is also linked up with foreign policy and some other issues, and it is a large area in the state budget. In Sweden, we give 1% of our gross national income to aid. That ambition has the Liberals, just like the transitional budget and also the agreement between the Moderates and the Christian Democrats that now appears to be going through in Sweden. I'm glad to hear that. But there are quite large clouds of anxiety in the sky. There is a wave of anti-liberal ideas around the world. Populist and authoritarian currents win supporters both in government offices and on Twitter, if you say so. Central liberal values such as openness, democracy, free trade and gender equality are now under threat from many different directions. It is therefore necessary, but by no means uncontroversial, that Swedish foreign policy and development policy have democracy-promoting as the overall objective. We in the Liberals want to strengthen the world's democracies and increase our commitment to human rights. Globalisation, free trade and international cooperation create great opportunities to strengthen democracy and increase freedom for individuals. The world needs a more transparent, capable and credible UN. Europe needs a Europe that stands up to populism and protects democracy and its various pillars. It is therefore important that Sweden does not waver on the international stage. On the contrary, Sweden should lead democracy and resist extremism and populism. Democracy needs to guide Sweden's work internationally, not least in the area of aid. Liberals believe that democratic reforms solve – or at least help to solve – quite a few of the problems that exist in the long term. If we have more freedom of expression and freedom of the press, more people will examine corruption and abuse of power. If we get free elections, the citizens can vote out irresponsible politicians. Democratic states around the world are investing more in research and welfare than non-democratic countries do. Countries that choose democratic reforms take a greater share of the success of globalisation and a growing economy. When peace is now under threat in several places and many places, it is particularly important that Sweden and the European Union in our foreign and aid policy step up precisely this work and also support individuals who dare to stand up for freedom and who defy authoritarian and dictatorial regimes. We want the Liberals to work to ensure that Swedish aid is used more efficiently and that it makes a difference for the people who really need it. There is a lot to say about Swedish development policy – both positive and negative. Often you hear the negative, but there is also a lot of positive, where Sweden in different ways contributes to people having a better life and a better life. It is important to highlight our ambitious support for humanitarian aid agencies. It helps to help people who are forced to live in tents near a conflict area or people who are forced to flee in various ways or suffer epidemics, earthquakes and other natural disasters. However, there are also some negative ones. This includes, not least, the Swedish aid to Tanzania in East Africa. For decades, Sweden has been one of the most generous donors to Tanzania, but now our development cooperation seems to be mostly about nostalgia. It's idle. At the same time, Tanzania is developing in a very destructive direction with incitement to minorities as one of its characteristics. It's a witch hunt you carry out on LGBTI people in Tanzania. It is time for Sweden's support to the country's authorities to be interrupted. Tanzania is still one of Sweden's largest recipients of aid. According to our assistance agency Sida gave Sweden 1.1 billion SEK in aid to Tanzania last year. Hundreds of millions of this support goes to the country's state administration and authorities, which are controlled by the same regime that commits the abuse. Through this type of unconditional aid, Sweden is helping to strengthen authoritarian regimes. That can't be reasonable. Our assistance should go to those who want to strengthen democracy, carry out reforms and increase the freedom of their citizens but who, for various reasons, have not come all the way there and need Swedish help to make these improvements. However, it is unreasonable for Sweden to pump its citizens' and residents' tax funds into regimes and state administrations that oppose reforms and human rights and in countries where developments are backward. In no other areas do we apply the principle that the worse it gets, the more you get – except obviously in certain contexts of aid. Madam President, I would like The Tanzania case is not unique. The rights of LGBT people are threatened and are almost non-existent in many countries of the world, and this is the result of dictatorship, poor respect for individual freedom and ancient norms stamping out sexual minorities. In 85 countries, almost every other country in the world, homosexuality is classified as a crime. At the same time, a number of these countries' authorities are recipients of aid from Sweden, so we are part-financing this repression. The Liberals therefore want Sweden not to continue to pay development aid to countries that are not developing in a democratic direction. It is surprising that the Red-Green Government has not taken action on Tanzania. Of course, it must have consequences if a government acts in the way that Tanzania's is doing. Madam President, I would like There are several other examples of this. Not least, it concerns the avoidance of the abuses that are taking place in Palestine, where Sweden continues to plow in unsolicited aid. The same applies to the exaggerated belief that the totalitarian Communist regime in Cuba would have any interest whatsoever in a dialogue for democratic reforms. It has shown no interest in this in nearly 60 years, and there is no indication that there is any change in sight. Madam President, I would like Liberals had both their own budget exercise and their own exercise in this area of expenditure. But our budgetary framework fell into a previous vote in Parliament, so I refer to our particular opinion.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-490	Madam President, I would like There is absolutely nothing wrong with Fredrik Malm's values and commitment, but sometimes Fredrik Malm can become a little too categorical and fulfilled with his own commitment. As I explained to Ludvig Aspling earlier, aid to Tanzania is not about general budget support that the Tanzanian Government can do whatever it wants with. It is sectoral support for a sector of government that we have at least previously believed could be a positive force in the development of the country. The support goes to the Ministry of Finance to develop its activities. In what way does Fredrik Malm believe that withdrawal of aid to the Tanzanian Ministry of Finance would improve the situation for LGBTI people in Tanzania? However, I do not want to rule out that this can ultimately be one of Sweden's reactions to what we are now experiencing, which is terrible. But I think that Fredrik Malm, just like Ludvig Aspling, is moving forward very quickly and perhaps also something ill-considered. It is not that Swedish aid to any country is undemanding. It is based on strategies and careful programming, and it is being followed up all the time, and if it does not work and the rules and values we set up are not followed, aid is being suspended.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-495	Madam President, I would like It is not the case that the Tanzanian regime, school and health care are completely separate, but it is the Tanzanian regime and government that are responsible for their authorities. There are three problems with the reasoning of Kenneth G. Forslund. The first is what you call functionality, that is to say that you are not giving money to the regime but to the health care system. After all, the government can allow this money to go there and then use the corresponding funds for other sectors. It could be about buying weapons, printing propaganda against minorities or whatever the regime considers important to do. It cannot therefore be said that it supports a specific part, because it offers a great opportunity for the regime in the country to redistribute its own resources. The second problem is that this strengthens the government of the country in general. I do not know whether the Tanzanian Government needs to be strengthened so much more, because it has already been in charge for 40 years. It seems difficult for the opposition in Tanzania, although it is united, to be able to win an election in the country. It is partly because the country's ruling elite, which has a monopoly on power and has had it for decades, through these aid contacts and the legitimacy it creates, can demonstrate that it is the guarantor of various efforts across the country. The third and very important problem is that Sweden is sending a very strange signal through this aid. Sweden says that it does not matter what a government, in this case the government in Tanzania, does, because you get money anyway. It cannot be reasonable for Sweden, which is such a large and ambitious donor, to take this type of abuse so lightly.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-499	Madam President, I would like No, Sweden does not take these abuses lightly. On the contrary, Sweden has made strong criticisms, and so is the EU. It is at that end that we should begin, by using the contact areas we have to put forward our views and criticisms. However, we should not rule out that in the long run it may also have other consequences, possibly in the form of reduced aid. But I think Fredrik Malm is moving too fast. The question that I put to Fredrik Malm remains: In what way can withdrawn assistance to the Tanzanian Ministry of Finance improve the situation for LGBTI people? There are those in Tanzania who are concerned that such action would even increase the pressure on LGBTI people and that they would be blamed. With regard to the debate on the transfer of funds between different areas of the budget, this is controversial in research.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-502	Madam President, I would like I get a little worried when Kenneth G. Forslund says I'm moving too fast. Well, let's take it a little slower then and ask ourselves how many more of these militias are to be started to hunt minorities in Tanzania. How much will corruption and abuse of power increase in the country before Kenneth G Forslund thinks it is time for Sweden to take action? The truth is that Sweden gives a number of hundred million to the Tanzanian authorities each year. However, it represents less than 1% of the overall state budget in Tanzania. This means that if Sweden shows a stronger loyalty to Swedish taxpayers and says that we do not want our funds to go to a country where development is backward and where it commits these abuses without channelling our resources in other aid recipient countries, Tanzania will in fact be able to allocate resources to these sectors if you consider them important.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-504	Madam President, I would like It is with mixed feelings that I stand in this House debating the aid budget for 2019. On the basis of the current political situation, I had hoped to stand here and speak well of a scaled-down transitional budget, a budget based on a few principles to safeguard order and order in the situation we find ourselves in, after an election and before a government takes office. The transitional budget was not a progressive budget; political ambitions had to be sidelined. But it stood in order in the rule of a country with a transitional government. Madam President, I would like I am proud of Sweden's foreign and development policy and of the voice we have in the world. I am proud of the Swedish aid, which is ranked at its best in the world. I am, of course, also proud of Sweden's Minister for Climate, Development and Aid, who is an environmental party. It is very good that we in this House broadly agree on the 1% target. However, any talk of long-termness and predictability in aid policy echoes rather empty when the Moderates and Christian Democrats in the parliamentary situation we are now in, without blinking, present a joint budgetary motion that gains support in this House with the help of SD. Madam President, I would like We are in a position where the world is being fundamentally transformed. Inequality appears and authoritarian right-wing populism grows. In many places the most fundamental values and human rights are challenged by conservative forces. The number of people, adults and children affected by disasters is growing every year. We are also seeing setbacks for women's rights activists, not least with the shrinking democratic space. We must continue to stand up for freedom of expression, for those who defend human rights, for dissidents and for pluralism in civil society. Women's rights and opportunities to participate in the rooms where decisions are made are of the highest priority. It is also, of course, about climate change. Climate change is a reality that every person with political responsibility should do everything to slow down. Madam President, I would like 2018 will be the year in which emissions have increased most globally. It is alarmingly urgent now, and the world needs to gather strength and speed up in order to reverse developments over the next ten years. I must admit that I was first positively surprised by M's and KD's climate focus in aid. But on closer reading, I can't find any new sharper control. In every relevant strategy – bilateral, multilateral or global – the government has introduced the environment, climate and sustainable use of natural resources as a key priority in the previous mandate. Perhaps the most important thing is that M and KD take 1 billion out of the poor, rename it for climate aid and see da n gives it back. This can hardly be seen as an increase in climate aid, as it is not additional. You have not increased the aid framework. On the contrary, you in the Moderates initially wanted to lower it a little before you signed up with the Christian Democrats. Madam President, I would like We cannot escape our climate responsibility and let the poor countries do the whole job. It is contrary to the Paris Agreement, where all countries have committed themselves to reducing emissions within their borders. M's and KD's re-prioritising in the development budget will be set against the billions of cuts that will now be made to climate work here in Sweden. Sweden is a small country with great influence. Long-term strategies and predictability in Swedish development policy have a decisive impact on the results, for example, in international climate negotiations. Lack of the same creates uncertainty and risks resulting in unnecessary lock-ups. Isabella Lövin just came home from Katowice and the climate negotiations there. What we do here at home plays an enormous role in the credibility we have built up over the last four years. We cannot ask other countries to reduce their emissions if we do not do the same here. The world needs continued Swedish climate leadership. I must therefore say that I am sorry about the M-KD budget voted in this House with the support of the SD, the only party in this House that does not support the 1% target. In its own budget exercise, SD cuts aid by as much as 11 billion. This applies in particular to efforts relating to democracy, human rights and gender equality. This is a very worrying development even in the run-up to next year's budget debate. What will we have to consider when the right-wing conservative bloc in Swedish politics is allowed to become government-supported with SD support? Madam President, I would like The goal of Swedish international aid, as established by the Riksdag, is to create the conditions for better living conditions for people living in poverty and oppression. Today we see poverty concentrated in failing and conflict-packed countries. Conflicts are also more prolonged than before. The work for peace is about resolving the conflicts that are going on but also about long-term and preventive efforts to prevent the conflicts from gaining hold. This marked the government's peace work during the previous term of office, and this direction needs to be continued. We must be present in the very countries that are in the most difficult situation. In this context, it is also necessary to combat climate change and the resource shortages of a changing climate. Overall, global challenges require even greater and closer cooperation between countries, multilateral organisations, civil society, companies and research. Our commitment to Agenda 2030 is just one example. I cannot stress enough the importance of continuing the holistic work and approach. We have eleven years to achieve the global goals. It's a very short time. We have before us enormous work that should not or cannot be dependent on aid. The entire economic system, civil society, local communities, businesses and politics must deliver in order for us to be able to succeed. And we have to succeed. That is why we must firmly uphold the main priorities of our aid policy: strengthening democracy and gender equality, meeting the climate challenges and increasing respect for human rights. These are fundamental values and building blocks for sustainable development and a peaceful world. MP does not take part in the decision but has delivered a special opinion with the Social Democrats and the Left.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-525	Madam President, I would like The climate cannot wait, it said on the Green Party election posters during the election campaign. I couldn't agree more. Once again, however, I would like to remind the House that politicians do not have money, but take money. Therefore, every dollar invested must be invested where it benefits the climate most. As I said, the climate cannot wait. We in the Moderates and Christian Democrats propose in our budget an extra 1 billion to go to international climate change. We also propose that 10% of efforts on bilateral cooperation should be directed towards reducing emissions. I would like to ask the Green Party, Madam President, whether the Green Party thinks an extra 1 billion to international climate aid is a bad priority.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-527	Madam President, I would like We cannot escape our climate responsibility and demand that other countries do what we do not do here at home. You have not reported where you are taking the extra billion you spend on the aid budget. The Climate Convention explicitly states that climate finance must be additional. I do not believe that you have increased the aid framework. So you take from something to add something else. I don't know if it's doing the most good for the money. It must also be set against the billions of cuts that you make at home. It's not about doing either or. At this point, it is about doing both.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-529	Madam President, I would like Of course we shouldn't run away from our responsibilities. But we must also do everything we can to reduce emissions. We do this partly at home, partly and above all in the world. Every dollar must be invested where it is most useful. Madam President, I would like There has been strong criticism from the pulpit that we in the Moderates have gone forward with our policy, that we are pursuing the policy we promised the voters to pursue and that we are also presenting it to the House to debate and decide on. I have to ask the Green Party whether you think it is wrong for parties, after elections, to do what they can to have an impact on the policies they promised the voters to pursue.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-531	Madam President, I would like Thank you for one more question. Yes, I think it's wrong to take the chance to take a shortcut to get your policy through when we have a transitional government. It creates a twitchiness and an unpredictability for authorities, for example. It was also noticeable during the climate summit that took place this weekend. It is difficult to follow what this government as a transitional government can and cannot do. So I think it's wrong.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-532	Madam President, I would like It feels very big and special to be able to give my maiden speech in the Riksdag just today when we celebrate 100 years of democracy in Sweden. It feels big and nice. When it comes to development policy, there is much to be proud of as a Swede. We have taken enormous responsibility for the world's needy people. Sweden is one of the few countries that meet the UN's recommendation that 0.7% of GDP should go to aid. The 1% target is fixed. This means that we spend more than 50 billion on aid in the 2019 budget. This compares with the resources we spend on military defence, the judiciary, parental insurance or universities and colleges. The task of aid is to help create the conditions for people to emerge from poverty and oppression. The overall objectives of Sweden's development cooperation must be to assert human dignity, raise the living standards of the poorest people and promote human rights and democracy. Although there is much to be proud of, there is also a great deal of potential for improvement. For many of the government's strategies in recent years, developments have moved in the undesired direction. Only two out of ten development projects survive when Sida has stopped funding them. It is therefore eight out of ten who have not been sustainable. Transparency in aid is far from satisfactory. Openaid, where efforts should be accounted for and able to be followed up, still leaves a lot to be desired. This must be addressed by a new government. We Moderates demand responsible management of aid. This means high demands on economic governance and reporting, the fight against corruption in both aid organisations and partner countries, and a readiness to act against maladministration. Sweden's aid should come with demands, and if the requirements are not met it must have consequences, for example through frozen payments. The effectiveness of aid needs to be increased, and we need to tighten priorities. Aid should be focused where it is needed most and to the most vulnerable. Therefore, aid should be focused on fewer countries. By focusing on fewer things and ensuring that they really deliver optimal results, we are convinced that we can do more good and get more results for our efforts. I would now like to set out a number of the priorities that we want to see in development policy. We want to strengthen humanitarian aid in the event of crises and disasters and strengthen multilateral nuclear aid. The multilateral support that Sweden provides to a wide range of UN agencies should be focused and more widely gathered among those agencies that have the greatest activity among refugees and that work with children's security and rights. In order to make this possible to a greater extent, the Moderates and Christian Democrats also raise the framework for ordering appropriations from 90 to 103 billion. We want to see an improved environmental impact. We want to work for gender equality and SRHR. We want to combat oppression of minorities and dissidents. Too many people are being persecuted today for their faith and driven away from their homes under the most repulsive threats. Freedom of religion and belief is an important issue to take into account in the design of Swedish development cooperation. It is about freedom from coercion, freedom of expression and non-discrimination. Therefore, new country strategies that are developed should always include an analysis of the situation of freedom of religion and belief. We want to strengthen civil society. Individual organisations are not only irreplaceable as implementers of public aid but also very important as they give us individuals an opportunity to give out of their own pockets and be involved in taking responsibility for the development of the world. In large parts of the world, people's ability to organize is increasingly limited. Sweden must put more pressure on partner countries where civil society space is shrinking. Last but not least, it is about jobs and free trade. Research shows that economic growth in beneficiary countries is to a very small extent the merit of aid. Instead, growth is increasingly due to broad economies where the role of agriculture is shrinking and other sectors of society are growing. Jobs, which is what the poor want most of all, are created to 90% in the private sector. It is an extremely important insight to have in aid policy. The way out of poverty is through economic growth and trade. To win the fight against poverty requires more free trade. More entrepreneurs and broad collaboration with private actors are a prerequisite for positive development in the partner countries. Madam President, I would like I cannot help but mention once again the objective of aid, lifting people out of poverty and oppression. Ultimately, the aim should be to completely abolish development aid and that it should no longer be necessary. The road there is of course extremely long, possibly endless. But aid with results in focus should also reasonably go hand in hand with a zero vision. To take steps in this direction, we must honestly examine what works and why, what does not work and why, and how the opportunities of digitalisation can be used. It is important never to sit back and be content just because you are a great donor. The most important thing is not the sum of our payments, but the results of our efforts. Swedish taxpayers have the right to make demands here that the aid makes a difference. That's how it is-- that's the third time I've said this today-- politicians don't have money, politicians take money away from people who work. In a world where the needs are endless, it is important that we ensure that Swedish taxpayers' money goes to the aid efforts where they do the most good. This places demands on performance monitoring, transparency and the ability to dare prioritise. Swedish aid cannot do everything. But where Swedish aid works, taxpayers should see the results of their giving. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-550	Madam President, I would like Magdalena Schröder spoke warmly in her speech that aid should be right and be very effective. As Magdalena Schröder himself pointed out, it has been said three times that politicians do not have money but take money. But taxes are something that we democratically decide on and that we politicians have been trusted to manage. Let me point out that capitalists have not only suddenly received money but have taken it from the surplus-value-forming labour of workers. That is something that is not decided jointly. I would like to know how Magdalena Schröder views the 1% target. The Moderates don't want to achieve it until 2022. Thanks to the Christian Democrats, it was ensured that this reduction did not take place this year. But what about the coming years? Will the Moderates enforce their policies and reduce aid to slowly achieve the goal only in 2022? After all, if they went through, your reductions would impair the long-term sustainability of aid. At the same time, greater administration would be needed when aid changes over time to what the beneficiaries had expected, and this would reduce efficiency. My second question concerns private sector aid. It has often been shown that it has gone to businesses in rich countries rather than to poor people in poor countries. We in the Left Party have no problem whatsoever in strengthening the country's infrastructure and governance so that the people of each country can start their own businesses and pay wages that are viable. However, as we have done today, to allow aid to go to companies in rich countries, Magdalena Schröder cannot see that aid is right.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-555	Madam President, I would like As I am sure Yasmine knows, a number of years ago the way in which the 1% target was calculated was changed. The Moderates are behind the 1% target, and we had a stairway for achieving the goal of the new way of counting. It is not entirely unproblematic to increase the aid framework at a very high rate. Nevertheless, the Moderates had in their budget motion an increase in the aid framework, but not as high as that government had in the transitional budget. As far as aid is concerned, I said in my speech that we want a clear review of what is working and what is not working. What works, we're gonna make more of it, and what doesn't work, we're gonna make less of it.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-558	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magdalena Schröder, for the attempts to answer! However, I still did not get a clear answer on private sector aid. Now that you want to see it hit right, how does it get right when it goes to rich entrepreneurs in rich countries? Magdalena Schröder often mentions the need for taxpayers to know where the aid money is going. On the one hand, it is carefully documented already when they are distributed where they go, and on the other hand, there are evaluations of accredited evaluators and civil organisations. My question to Magdalena Schröder is: is there any limit to how much tax money should go to the control of aid?
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-561	Madam President, I would like I have to disagree with Yasmine. I do not think that is sufficient transparency and scrutiny. As I said in my speech, Openaid still leaves much to be desired. There are many efforts where it is not possible to see what the money is going to do. If there is any limit to how much money you can spend on scrutiny, I do not know, but there should be enough money to ensure that the money that goes to efforts produces results. It requires an honest and transparent review of what works and why, and we shall do more of that, and what does not work and why, and we shall end up doing that.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-563	Madam President, I would like After all, there is also European aid cooperation, which I know the Moderates are behind. The European Union's starting point is that 0.7% of the EU's total funds should be allocated by 2030. If the Moderates' goal in the broader context is to set aside just 0.7 per cent of Bni in eleven years' time, why is it not good enough for Sweden as well? Why do you want to shock up the demand for Swedish taxpayers in relation to what you expect of our European neighbours?
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-564	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to agree that the Moderates are behind this and that it is positive that the EU is coordinating aid. Of course, there is a great deal that can be done better, but the cooperation is good. The UN recommendation is that at least 0.7% of GDP should go to aid. There is a broad consensus that there should be 1 per cent in Sweden. The Moderates are behind this, and in this budget the 1% target is fixed.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-566	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, but I still feel the question hanging in the air. What I am interested in knowing is why Magdalena Schröder thinks it is okay to demand 1% of Swedish taxpayers while not prepared to demand 1% of European neighbours in European development cooperation. Why should Swedish taxpayers pay more? That's what I'm interested in knowing.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-568	Madam President, I would like As I said in my speech, it is not the sum of our payments that is absolutely the most important thing, but the most important thing is the result of our efforts. If the effort goes right, we can get more results with this budget. The UN recommendation is 0.7% of BNI, but there is broad support in Sweden for 1 percent of BNI.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-570	Madam President, I would like In the rich part of the world, we have a moral and human responsibility to help eradicate poverty and oppression. The concern for our neighbor and the idea that every human being is unique and has an inviolable value are at the root of the ideology of Christian democracy. That view of humanity, that solidarity, does not stop at Sweden's borders. The fact that EU aid is now declining for the first time since 2012 underlines the importance of maintaining the 1% target for the next financial year as well. Overall, Sweden's development cooperation must be to assert human dignity, to raise the living standards of the poorest and to promote human rights and democracy. Linked to this is also climate policy. Climate change mainly threatens the poor part of the world. That is why it is an important step that we are taking to increase multilateral aid in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions globally. In the joint draft budget of the Christian Democrats and the Moderates, we double international climate aid to SEK 2 billion. Madam President, I would like Sweden's aid budget is larger than ever before. It gives us room to help more people in a world of urgent needs, but it also gives us an obligation to review and improve the quality of aid. The multilateral support that Sweden provides to various UN agencies should focus more on the great needs. It is, for example, about efforts for the world's refugees, and it is about the work for the safety and rights of children. Increased support for organisations such as UNHCR, WFP and UNICEF is a necessity. Sweden should also work to increase the channelling of humanitarian aid through civil society organisations. Often NGOs and religious communities work on the direct front line in disaster areas. Often it is the churches that through local contacts and experiences have the best conditions to work efficiently and long-term in the development work. Efforts to combat repression of minorities or dissidents are another area that I would like to highlight and which we want to prioritise. Freedom of religion is today under threat around the world, not least in the Middle East. The right to freely practice one's religion is and remains a cornerstone of the UN Declaration of Human Rights. It must also be in the design of Swedish development cooperation. Therefore, new country strategies that are developed should always include an analysis of the situation regarding freedom of religion and belief. The uninterested and preconceived views of the Red Green Government on religious persecution, especially against Christians, must now be replaced by new conclusions and political action. For the Christian Democrats, some areas, some missions, are particularly important in terms of aid policy. First of all, the fight against xenophobia must be consolidated. According to the World Bank's 2018 statistics, there is now a brake on the fight against poverty. The World Bank estimates that the objective of eradicating extreme poverty by 2030 cannot be achieved at the current rate. For extreme poverty to be eradicated, the fight against poverty must be both more effective and more widespread. Secondly, Sweden, together with other countries, must make a greater contribution to helping people on the run. In many cases, conditions in refugee camps and temporary accommodations are miserable. Water, food, education and health care must be in place when the international community assumes responsibility for people in urgent need of help. Thirdly, democracy must be developed and protected. Around the world, democratic values are now under threat. Political opposition, civil society, media and lawyers are under heavy pressure. Support for these institutions and groups must be strengthened. Madam President, I would like At a time when millions of people are forced to flee dictatorships and oppression, clear demands must be made on recipient countries and politically responsible. For aid to have an impact and enable a better life for people, respect for human rights but also a willingness to address fundamental problems such as corruption and abuse of power. Unfortunately, this is far too lacking. Tanzania has been mentioned. Cuba has been mentioned. But even in Palestinian areas, for example, we are now seeing developments going in the wrong direction. Incitement to violence, the spread of anti-Semitism and hatred of Israel in the media and school education are becoming more common. As an important aid partner, Sweden must therefore, bilaterally and together with other countries, make tougher demands on the Palestinian leadership. Do not stop the regime's serious violations of human rights and do not stop the payoff of those on terror and their families must do as many other countries do and freeze aid to Palestinian territories. Madam President, I would like There is no doubt that there is a general need for a change in Swedish development policy. Being stuck in old structures is not working effectively. Reflectively pumping billions into a sluggish UN system is not taking responsibility where the needs are greatest. Aid work is about long-term sustainability. The results of the fight against poverty, refugee support and development of democracy do not go hand in hand. Nevertheless, it is the results that are crucial for the most vulnerable, for taxpayers and not least for the legitimacy of Sweden's development policy. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-587	Madam President, I would like I'm a little curious about what Lars Adaktusson calls an increased climate ambition with 1 billion in the development budget. I saw you write in the budget motion that you note that bilateral aid has increased significantly in recent years, but that it has not been reflected in an increased focus on climate action within the strategies. So bilateral climate aid should also increase, you say, and the committee wants to ensure that at least 10% of it should have as its main objective the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2022. This doesn't make any sense. As I highlighted in my speech, in every relevant strategy, the Red Green Government has highlighted this priority of the environment, climate and sustainable use of natural resources in bilateral, multilateral and global agreements. My question is: in what way is this an increased climate ambition? I'd also like to know where you're taking this money from.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-590	Madam President, I would like The money is taken from the aid framework that is increasing by about 2 billion per year in the framework of our commitment to meeting the 1% target. There is no doubt that this is an increase. It's a doubling from 1 billion to 2 billion. It is also a clear direction of will and a clear signal of how we view the need to strengthen climate action within the framework of aid. We see the link and we see that many of the efforts made in the field of environmental policy are symbolic. This is about concrete, real support for reducing emissions in those countries that are severely affected by climate change. With all due respect, I would like to say that the Green Party does not always know best when it comes to environmental policy. We have seen in the last parliamentary term that emissions have not been reduced. On the contrary, they have remained or even increased somewhat during the time that you have been responsible for politics in Sweden and not least for climate issues. The Green Party is important to push forward on climate issues, but again, with all due respect, I would like to say that we other parties can also have good ideas on how to run environmental work and how to combat climate change.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-593	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I would like to stay a little on the question of how this can be seen as an increase. It is therefore not an increase in comparison with the proposal made by the transitional budget, but an increase in your perspective. We are still within the same aid framework. In the agreements I mentioned, this has been a priority throughout the last parliamentary term.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-594	Madam President, I would like We can immerse ourselves in technicalities and engage in such things, but I think the most important thing is, as I said, that we are spending twice as much and raising from 1 billion to 2 billion. It should be seen as an expression of a conscious effort in this area. We know that this is important, and we will continue to invest in increasing appropriations on the climate issue linked to aid policy. Let us unite in this, and let us take advantage of the fact that we think this is a good and proper effort rather than looking for errors and discussing details.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-596	Madam President, I would like In his speech, Lars Adaktusson highlights Israel and Palestine. However, we in the Left Party are not listening to the NGO Monitor whose funding is questionable. On the other hand, we welcome the report by Human Rights Watch on irregularities in Palestine and Israel. It was partly created thanks to Swedish aid. Criticism is serious, and in all relations with both the Palestinian Authority and the Israeli Government, Sweden must criticise the abuses that have been committed. That is why we in the Left Party, too, when we have visited Israel and Palestine and met both Palestinian and Israeli politicians, have highlighted this. At the same time, we must not forget the proportionality of this conflict. They are not equal partners. Palestine is either occupied or circumscribed. When, Lars Adaktusson, will we hear you criticize Israel? The report also strongly criticises their occupation of the West Bank and the isolation of Gaza. When will we hear Lars Adaktusson mention Israel's violations of human rights? Examples are when the military uses snipers against persons who do not pose a military threat or when settlements take water at the beginning of the source so that they can produce their wine for export while the Palestinians are left without water and cannot grow food or feed their animals. Human Rights Watch's recommendations include not dealing with settlements or Israeli companies operating in settlements. How does Lars Adaktusson react to these recommendations?
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-600	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Yasmine Posio! This is an important area. It is good that Human Rights Watch reports are mentioned. It is good that the Left Party takes seriously the reports of torture, imprisonment and serious crimes against humanity. But I've never heard you from the Left Party say that, we're going to take the consequences of what the serious violations of human rights mean. You say you bring it up and you discuss it. But nothing's happening. In the world of the Left Party, a corrupt political leadership can obviously persecute its own population, violate human rights, imprison people, torture people who disagree and systematically spread anti-Semitism and hatred against Israel. However, you do not want to do anything about Swedish aid. It is not enough to say that you are talking to the Palestinians. This leadership continues its destructive policies all the time. Obviously, neither you nor the Red-Green Government have any influence on this issue. When do I criticize Israel? I do that a lot. There is reason to criticise the Israeli Government, for example, for settlement policy, as I have done on several occasions. Criticising Israel is not a problem at all. Israel is a democracy. If you want to listen to criticism of Israel's policy, you should visit the Israeli Parliament. That's a tough pitch. That's where the government gets criticism.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-606	Madam President, I would like I have not yet heard the criticism of Israel that Lars Adaktusson says he is making, either in committee or in this House. But it may eventually come. On the other hand, criticism of Palestine has been raised in this House. It's still a little fascinating; all the criticisms that are highlighted are not from the Human Rights Watch reports. It also comes from the NGO Monitor. In fact, it is possible to question the accuracy of the criticism there. At the same time, proportionality is, after all, not the same, is it? They are not equal partners in a conflict. Israel occupies and isolates Palestine in a way that does not respect human rights.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-609	Madam President, I would like With regard to proportionality, Israel has since it was founded 70 years ago been surrounded by dictatorship states and terrorist organisations with one single objective: to wipe out the State of Israel. Around Israel today live half a billion people in dictatorship states. All the world's major terrorist organizations are located at Israel's borders. Unless it's a vulnerability as great as the Palestinian, I don't know what. That lack of insight possibly says more about the Left Party's concept of reality than about what reality really looks like. Israel's vulnerability has been a fact from day one since Israel was founded. As far as aid is concerned, it is one thing to distance ourselves from. But what are you doing, Yasmine Posio? What are the conclusions of your criticism? None so far, I'm afraid.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-612	Madam President, I would like Responsibility for the vast majority of refugees in the world rests with the UNHCR. Refugees are defined in accordance with the 1951 Geneva Convention. However, there is one group that is different from all the others. There are 5.4 million Palestinians in Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, Gaza, Judea and Samaria. These are registered as refugees according to Unrwa. Unrwa is a UN organisation that has often been strongly criticised for corruption and for its anti-Israeli and anti-Semitic education system. Last year the NGO revealed the anti-Semitism and violent extremism of UN Watch Unrwa employees. This led me to ask a question to the Minister for Development regarding Sweden's support to the organisation, which then amounted to a total of 370 million Swedish kronor. The answer from Isabella Lövin was: a government has full confidence that UNRWA and its staff can carry out their important mandate, and see no basis for questioning UNRWA's impartiality. This she replied despite the fact that 41 named employees at Unrwa praised Hitler, spread anti-Semitism and supported terrorism on their Facebook pages. Let me give another example. At Unrwa School Tiras Facebook page you can find pictures of violent and anti-Semitic drawings hanging in one of the school's classrooms. In one of the drawings depicting a child with a gun, Arabic explains that the school students will free the country with their weapons and with their blood. This, according to the ideology taught in schools, involves conquering all land between the East Jordan River and the West Mediterranean Sea. Israel is simply not on Unrwa schools' maps. The violent messages are repeated time and again in Unrwa's schools. Instead of learning to make peace with the Jewish state, students in Unrwa's schools are learning to keep the conflict with Israel alive. Other important criticisms made by the critics of Unrwa are that independent media, civil society organisations and the states that finance the UN agency Unrwa are not in a position to freely review the organisation. Instead, all inspections are carried out internally by the UN. The fact that there is such poor transparency and the possibility for Sweden to independently review Unrwa's operations is a serious problem. Unrwa was formed to take care of the Palestinian refugees after the Arab countries lost their war of aggression against Israel in 1948. The Jewish refugees in the Arab countries who had their homes confiscated and had to flee were not given much help from the outside world, while Unrwa was created for the Palestinians. Unrwa supports Palestinians who live as full citizens in Jordan, among others, but who are also governed by the Palestinian authorities. The refugee status is inherited. Have you heard? The refugee status is inherited. We are now in the fourth generation, which continues to receive refugee support from the UN agency. No one else can inherit refugee status. It is certainly very strange when many of these Palestinians have established themselves in other countries, where they have even acquired citizenship. However, according to Unrwa, they are still refugees and thus receive support. One can rightly assume, as many judges in Israel and the West do, that the Arab world and the international community are keeping the Palestinian refugee situation alive for it to be used as a political weapon. In this game Sweden participates, through its large contributions of tax money. Former Foreign Minister Margot Wallström recently promised new billions to Unrwa. The day after her boss, Prime Minister Löfven, was deposed by the Riksdag, she took the government plane to New York to raise money for the organization. This was done together with Jordan's Foreign Minister and in the presence of the Islamic Conference and the Arab League, as the newspaper Insight revealed. Just before the election, she promised to donate SEK 2 billion of Swedish tax dollars to Unrwa for four years. Sweden will therefore continue to donate money to an organisation that has repeatedly been criticised for corruption, anti-Semitism and tributes to terrorism. It's over now. The Social Democrats are campaigning to stand on the right side of history. You've all heard that. But the side they think is right is probably no one more than themselves who wants to stand on. The side on which they have chosen to stand has, as most of the time throughout history, been the side of blood-defiled dictatorships around the world. On that side, they stand alone. Madam President, I would like I would like to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-625	Madam President, I would like Judea and Samaria — Why the Use of Old Testament Geographical Names? I'd like you to explain that. You made criticisms of Unrwa. Yes, there are certainly things in their activities that can rightly be criticized. But from there to generalizing and saying that the whole business is wrong, no, I disagree. Unfortunately, there are extremes on both sides in the ongoing conflict between Israel and Palestine. There are extreme people on both sides, and they have strikingly similar working methods. School students may use maps where the other area is not drawn and mentioned. There is propaganda that stirs up violence against the other party and even incites the murder of the president of the other party. But should we all judge from the generalization of the extreme forces on both sides? I do not believe that this brings us closer to the solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Back to my opening question. Judaea and Samaria, why this use of an old - language language?
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-629	Madam President, I would like Since entering the Riksdag, I have been exercising on this subject time and again. I have tried to make the other Members a little more knowledgeable and, above all, a little more familiar with what is happening in the Middle East. I have shown examples after examples of the spread of anti-Semitism and the financing of terrorists and their families. One who shoots an Israeli to death receives automatically money from the Palestinian Authority. This is about how an authority acts. In institutions and schools, with the authority's knowledge and approval, anti-Semitism is spread. Students are raised to feel hatred for Israel and the Jewish people. There are, of course, bad eggs on the other side too. Just as Lars Adaktusson said earlier, Israel also sometimes deserves to be criticized. But I have not seen the Israeli authority bless the hatred that is being blessed on the other side. Although I keep reminding myself of this and asking the Swedish Government why they do nothing and why they continue to pump in millions after millions, billions after billions of dollars, the Palestinian Authority is simply saying that they are talking about dialogue and telling us this. But you have to put your foot down somewhere. Today, the Swedish authorities and the Swedish taxpayer are involved in funding terrorism and anti-Semitism. It's not something we can do. As for the concepts of Judea and Samaria, that is what these areas are called. That's why I use those terms.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-635	Madam President, I would like The Israeli Government is doing its bit to foment extremism from that direction, unfortunately. This is done, among other things, through its support to the NGO Monitor. It is an organisation that, with its highly angled analyses, is often marketed here in the Riksdag by Sweden Democrats and others. It is an organisation that also receives support from the most extreme parts of the settler movement and is constantly promoting a right-wing nationalist propaganda that is quite well in line with the political line of the current Israeli Government. Björn Söder says it's Judea and Samaria. Yes, it's called that in the Old Testament, but it's not today's language, Björn Söder. I look forward to hearing Björn Söder criticise abuse and other things from the Israeli side.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-638	Madam President, I would like There was talk earlier here of proportionality. Kenneth G. Forslund cannot seriously think that the proportion is in parity with each other in relation to the actions of the Palestinian Authority and the Israeli Authority. It is clear that there are criticisms to be levelled at Israel, and that is also being said. But it's not at all on the same level. After all, Israel does not pay tribute to terrorism and acts of terrorism that kill innocent children, women and men. The Palestinian Authority does so. It finances and helps people who commit these abuses. It calls them martyrs. There's a big difference. Israel's authority does not incite hatred of Arabs. Arabs living in Israel have the same rights and obligations as the Israelis, the Jews. They don't have it on the other side. It is even the case that Jews are not allowed to enter Palestine-controlled areas because they are in danger of their lives. Proportionality is not the same. There are major differences here.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-642	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a good debate! It is clear that we humans have an inherent responsibility to help other people around the world, not as Swedes and not as Europeans – you can call yourself what you want. As human beings, we have a responsibility to help other people throughout the world. Unfortunately, Sweden is a small country with limited resources, although we have and should have an ambitious policy. When it comes to aid, we must also dare to prioritise and put money where it makes a difference. We will use the money for things that are good and not for things that are bad. In the Liberals' draft budget, we choose to strengthen the free journalists' education while reducing the information campaign that Sida is running against our own Swedes. There are sharp dividing lines in Swedish politics when it comes to democracy. I and the Liberals believe that there is a need to strengthen democracy throughout the world. Aid should be used to strengthen and secure democracy. Democracy is what ensures economic development, lifting people out of starvation, stopping war, strengthening international relations and ensuring a better climate policy for the future. Against this background, it is sad to see that the previous government has continued to give money to Tanzania where there is a hot pursuit of homosexuals. The same party has been in power for 40 years. It is almost only the Social Democrats in Sweden who have had such a long period of government. Then one might wonder if Tanzania is a democracy – of course not. It has continued to give money to Rwanda where there is oppression and non-democracy. Money has continued to be given to Palestine. Money has been pumped into Palestinian areas. Madam President, I would like I and the Liberals are critical of this. It is clear that it echoes falsely when the Social Democrats and the Left Party repeatedly say that they want to see a solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. At the same time, money is being pumped into the Palestinian territories. We know that the Palestinian Authority supports the repression of LGBT people and LGBT rights. The Palestinian Authority is dragging into democracy. There is no positive development of democracy. We know that terrorism of various kinds is being sanctioned against Israelis. While doing so, it has burned all its relations with the Israeli state. Palestine was recognised despite the fact that it has not identified an area, a people and a monopoly of violence as provided for by international law. Time and again, things have been done that have burned the diplomatic bridges with Israel. Madam President, I would like I wonder how serious it is with the ambition to bring an end to the conflict when, at the same time as burning diplomatic contacts, money is pumped in that goes for terrorism, violence propaganda, violation of LGBT rights and ensuring that democracy is not introduced. Madam President, I would like It is clear that democratic aid worthy of the name is needed. It is also clear that the government we have just had has failed on a point-by-point basis. It has not only failed to strengthen democracy but has also given money to non-democracy and has financed what leads to terrorism and violence against democracies. Madam President, I would like I hope that we will be able to reach a consensus in this Chamber in the future with the use of tax money and aid money that we rightly put in. However, we must use them for good and not bad things. We must use them to strengthen democracy and not to finance, for example, the Palestinian Authority and its propaganda machinery for terrorism.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-655	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by referring to what I said at the outset in the debate on Category 7 on what I believe to be a double approach by the four bourgeois parties. Madam President, I would like The Moderates and Christian Democrats, with the support of the Swedish Democrats, have passed their proposal for a budgetary framework. However, as far as Category 5 is concerned, there is no difference between the framework proposed by the government of expeditions and that decided in this House last week. Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats are not taking part in the decision, as the overall proposal for a financial framework in the budget of the government of expeditions was voted down last week. Since then, there have been busy times in Parliament's committees in shaping spending budgets, as in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. With regard to this area of expenditure, too, I would like to thank you for the openness and sensitivity that you have shown in the Moderates and Christian Democrats in the discussions in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and that you have taken on board the views expressed.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-659	Madam President, I would like In view of the current political situation and the fact that we have to postpone both the adjustment of and debate on this area of expenditure, we agreed in committee to be sparse in speaking time. Out of respect for this, I would simply like to say that the Swedish Democrats are not taking part in the decision in this area of expenditure because our proposed framework is higher than that adopted by Parliament. I refer to the specific opinion that we have attached to the report, which shows our particular efforts at the Swedish Institute and the Nordic cooperation.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-661	Madam President, I would like Today and the next few days, a discussion will be held as to whether a parliament has the right to draft a draft budget other than that of the transitional government. Perhaps we should not tire the House out by taking the basic reasoning on it once again. My own view is that a parliament is not of a transitional nature, but we have been an elected parliament since September and therefore have the right to make the proposals we want. Madam President, I would like In this area, as the Social Democrat Kenneth G. Forslund said – there are no major differences here. If we are to be very honest, there are no differences at all, either in level or in distribution. That is why there is little reason to have a deeper discussion about it. This is not the same as the fact that there are no major differences in substance policy. This will certainly prove to be the case in the months and years ahead, depending on the government we receive. I hope, of course, Madam President, that my party will represent the government side in the same way as I assume that the red-green parties believe that they will. On the basis of the outcome, we will have to hold the substantive political debate on this. In conclusion, I would like to express my warm thanks to all the members of the committee for a constructive tone that we have had this year, including this report, in this probably shortest speech ever in this House. I would also like to express my thanks to staff and staff in the office who sometimes have to work particularly intensively and hard because of the circumstances. I would like to support the committee's proposal for a decision and thank the members and the staff of the secretariat.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-665	Madam President, I would like In the committee's position on the area of international cooperation, which we are now discussing, it is said that Sweden should be a strong voice for peace, freedom and reconciliation. ..................................................... Sweden's commitment will be guided by the focus on results. With the situation prevailing in large parts of the world, it is more important than for many years. It concerns everything from the war in Syria, the humanitarian crisis in Yemen, the increased level of conflict in large parts of the Middle East and the Russian aggression against Ukraine. This uncertain world places demands on Sweden as an international player and underlines the importance of a value-based foreign policy. Sweden must always give priority to human rights, democracy and the rule of law. I would also like to say – and it is important in this very debate – that the central arena for Swedish foreign policy is the European Union. The strength of the EU lies in the common values and in the historic capacity to bring peace and overcome contradictions. The fact that the EU Member States speak with one voice in foreign policy is extremely important. Without unity, Europe's countries become players in the margins. Without closer foreign policy cooperation, Sweden's ability to influence and make a difference is also reduced. If the EU does not act otherwise. There's no vacuum. In the absence of a common European policy, we have seen this when it comes to countries such as Russia, China and Turkey. They've moved the positions. Not least in the Middle East, they are increasing their geopolitical influence. Unfortunately, this weakens the work of democratic reform, freedom and human rights. We also see a similar bleak development in countries such as Iran, Cuba and Belarus. Madam President, I would like With fundamental values of human dignity, freedom and democracy, we must never compromise. When these values are challenged today by authoritarian regimes and violent movements, it is more urgent than before to work together for peace and security. We do so within the framework of the European Union. We do this by strengthening our relationship with our Nordic and Baltic neighbours. We also do so by deepening cooperation with the defence alliance of Western democracies, NATO. I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-673	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by emphasising that the Social Democrats choose to refrain from taking a position on the distribution of appropriations in Category 6. We have made our views known in a separate opinion. Otherwise, we are in favour of the committee's proposal in the report. It is therefore the Defence Committee's report 1 Area of expenditure 6 Defence and society's emergency preparedness. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Armed Forces are developing in a positive direction. We strengthen the operational capability of our military units, and we strengthen the combined capability of the total defense. It is a comprehensive and purposeful work that has required a thorough review of decisions taken in the past. These are decisions that have proved to be based on miscalculations, a naive view of the development of the world and an unrealistic view of how to rebuild ability. History is a great pity, but it has led us to the situation we have today and which we have to deal with here and now. Eight years of bourgeois rule did not solve the problems. In all honesty, however, it should be said that many defence policies from many different parties have a great responsibility for the policy pursued since the fall of the wall. The disarmament of military defence and, perhaps more so, civil defence went too far. That is the price of what we are paying today. Over the last four years, three main orientations have been the focus of the common defence policy: 中 to increase Swedish national military capabilities 中 on the basis of a military non-alignment position, to deepen our international co-operation bilaterally and multilaterally; To develop a total defence adapted to modern conditions. Madam President, I would like If we are to be able to complete the trend break that has now begun, we must remember both where we came from and that there are no simple solutions or fast tracks. It is together that we must meet this challenge. This is a long-term and sustainable interaction where many people hook arms – parliament, government, county councils, municipalities, industry, organisations, the Swedish Armed Forces, civil authorities and the Swedish people. That is what makes us gradually build up our collective defence capabilities again. It is together that we can meet this challenge. What will determine the outcome is the ability to prioritise. Calling for higher funding alone will not solve the problems. It is the concrete measures that are interesting. It is the ability to choose which measures to take and when to take that will solve the problems. Envoying for more resources will not solve the problems. It is important that we know what the money is to be used for and that there are staff and other resources so that the funds allocated can be used in the best possible way. That's how we get an efficient use of resources. We are constantly facing new economic challenges. For the Swedish Armed Forces, this can range from the cost of material projects to exchange rate changes or other unforeseen events. Both within the Swedish Armed Forces and in politics, there must be an ability to deal with situations such as these. Although we are now adding new resources and building new capabilities, the journey will not be easy. The problems are there, and new problems will arise. These must be dealt with. We can and should be proud of what has been achieved so far, but we certainly cannot be satisfied. Madam President, I would like The challenges for the future are great. On the one hand, it is about the security policy situation as a whole. Firstly, it is about the construction work that we are now in. Our ambition is that what has now begun through three defence agreements should continue in collaboration. Broad parliamentary majority is a solid foundation in relation to the Swedish Armed Forces, but it is also an important signal to the outside world. How do we Social Democrats view the situation in Parliament this day in December 2018? Let me first say that it looks like we have a situation in which 92 of the 349 Members of this House will support the proposal in the report on defence and society's emergency preparedness – 92! It is in stark contrast with the ambitions that have been made for broad agreements, particularly in the field of defence and security policy. Madam President, I would like Let me stress that the transitional government's draft budget in this area of expenditure remains within the framework of a transitional government's ability to submit proposals to Parliament. No one, either in this House or anywhere else, can seriously believe that this would be a Social Democratic-led government proposal if it had been given the Parliament's mandate to present a budget without restrictions as a result of this acquis. Madam President, I would like No one, either in this House or anywhere else, can seriously believe that the broad agreements of recent years with more and more money for defence would end up in a proposal by a Social Democratic-led government with basically unchanged frameworks. No, Madam President, everyone in this House and outside knows that a Social Democratic-led government would have continued the reconstruction of our common military capabilities – with broad agreements in this Parliament, with increased funding and with all the good forces hooking arm.
i-CiKwTtYFZY17S8KzcsjR5k	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for approval of the committee's proposal on appropriations under Category 6 for 2019 and proposals on ordering appropriations. The committee's proposal involves partial approval of the proposals for appropriations in the Government's budget proposal, partial approval of 15 of the claims made by the Moderates and Christian Democrats in this part, and parliamentary approval of the appropriations in the field of expenditure as proposed by the committee in Appendix 4 with the terms of reference laid down by the committee. There are also two reservations from the Moderates. One clarifies the objective that the defence grants should be increased to 2 per cent of GDP within a ten-year period, and the other concerns the task of the Armed Forces in the event of civil crises. We are, of course, behind both, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 2. The committee also examines the government's letter on the acquisition of medium-sized air defences in the report and three accompanying motions. We have also followed up the government's performance report to the Riksdag, and we attach great importance to the fact that the performance report in the budget bill enables the committee to assess the development of various areas in relation to the 15 objectives decided by the Riksdag. Furthermore, the committee rejects the Government's proposal to authorise the Government to decide in 2019 on the export of JAS 39 C/ D through the assignment and transfer of equipment. We think it is important for the Riksdag to have a word on the team. The committee also proposes an announcement on revised investment plans for the Swedish Armed Forces and that the government should account for the life cycle cost of the medium-range anti-aircraft system Patriot. Madam President, I would like This autumn, no one in Parliament is like anyone else. It has been months since the elections, and we still have a transitional government. How long we have to wait for a solution, none of us know today. But we have the Parliament. There are important activities outside this house, and there are commitments to manage. With all due respect for the transitional government's work on the transitional budget: it does not handle and may not be able to deal with rather acute funding problems. I note that S, MP and V still think it is enough and that we should wait. It is more important to get a government than to ensure that the activities work. We are making a different assessment, which is also why the Moderates and the Christian Democrats have made a joint proposal. We see that it is necessary and important. As far as defence is concerned, our draft budget is of great importance. Without the addition of nearly SEK 3.9 billion next year, which will now be given, there would have been, for example, reductions, cancellations and further problems in maintaining staff and recruiting. In a situation where most parties still agreed on the direction ahead, the consequence would not only have been a stop but a substantial step back, this at a time when we know that uncertainty in our world is increasing and the need for stronger total defence is obvious. You can talk beautifully about this, and I thought ClasGöran Carlsson did. I share the overall assessment that there are very many different factors that need to be put in place, that there are major problems and all this. However, if that is the case, we cannot stand in a situation where we may take months' steps back in the fragile phase of construction where we are. The Swedish Armed Forces have been very clear about the consequences of not acting, and we think it is important to listen to this. We mainly cater for the Swedish Armed Forces' budget demands, but we are very clear that we take Statskontoret's, ESV's and others' reports on problems seriously when it comes to financial control, planning, transparency and more. There are several proposals that absolutely need to be followed up and put in place, and we are concerned about the evolution of the cost of defence materials and a lot of other things. It's a bit of a cuckoo who risks pushing everything else out of the nest, and this is a problem that we all have to fight to deal with. Our proposal also means, and this is important in view of the overall picture, additions to neighbouring authorities, the Swedish Defence Radio Institute, the Swedish Recruiting Authority, the Swedish Defence Research Institute and the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness, also this important piece of the puzzle when it comes to making the Swedish total defence stronger. Madam President, I would like Sweden is worth defending. Our country is large and beautiful, even in winter, and gives us citizens a level of life that many in our surrounding world envy. The latter has been created by generations through their work. Our task is to manage and develop Sweden. We see rifts in the security systems, and there are problems that we have to solve. But the defence of our country, our freedom and, not least, our open society and our democracy – which we are celebrating today – is perhaps our most important commitment. It requires knowledge, a lively debate, courage and creativity, and it requires resources and funds for the activities that will defend us against external threats. We in the Moderates and Christian Democrats have made our proposals precisely on that basis. We try to take our responsibility to ensure that the strengthening of Swedish defence that we believe is necessary also comes into place and that we do not take a step back in the small steps that have now been taken after many years of contractions and problems.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-701	Madam President, I would like To a very large extent, I could agree with what Beatrice Ask said in her speech, and I stress once again that it is important that we agree as far as possible on the defence and security policy decisions that are taken. Having said that, I can also say that I had not planned to request a reply at Beatrice Ask, and I do not really do so in the light of something that Beatrice Ask said. Instead, it was something that I took part in the media this weekend, where one of Beatrice Ask's colleagues in the moderate parliamentary group expressed himself, in a debate article, at least in my eyes, a bit from what is reasonably moderate and reasonable. I quote from the article: the Social Democrats and the Red-Green Government chose not to invest in defence in their transitional budget, despite knowledge of the financial needs of the Swedish Armed Forces to maintain Swedish defence capabilities. An uncertain political situation and difficulties in forming a government cannot be an excuse to jeopardise the security of our country. ..................................................... In view of the regulatory framework that I know both Beatrice Ask and several other moderate and bourgeois Members of this House are behind, namely that a transitional government should be careful to put new proposals that cost money in the budget, is it reasonable to claim, as a moderate Member of Parliament, that the transitional government jeopardises Sweden's security? How does Beatrice Ask view that statement?
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-705	Madam President, I would like I am not going to stand in the speaker's chair and review any parliamentary committee whatsoever, whether they are moderates or anything else. There are many of us who should be careful with the words. I have respect for the fact that the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party are making a very formalistic interpretation of the rules. I also assume that it hurts pretty hard, because ClasGöran Carlsson and others still say that they want to see reinforcements. I regret that you did not draw the conclusion we reached, because postponing exercises will have serious consequences if you have difficulties in recruiting and do all these things that would be the consequence if the transitional budget were to apply. This represents a huge setback in the fragile work that is going on. I also know that in politics there are very few masters of nuances. I'd be happy to buy you to be careful with the words. I say myself nonsense between the shipyards in the heat of battle and when I feel very strong. It is important to see this. I also take ClasGöran Carlsson at the word when he says that the Social Democrats are prepared to ensure that we get reinforcements and an improvement. It will be necessary. I'm in the Defense Committee, as well as a lot of people in this room. We know what challenges there are and what needs to be addressed. It will not be easy, but I am absolutely sure that the means now available to the defence will be able to be used in a sensible way to something that was actually the intentions of the agreement we made in 2015. That's what matters to me.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-710	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Beatrice Ask – after all, I see it as a mark against that kind of statement. Again, my assessment is that we would probably have been very close to each other in the conclusions if we had not been sidelined by the regulatory framework surrounding the possibilities of the transitional government. I definitely believe that we would have found a much broader solution in committee also in terms of the allocation of appropriations. Having said that, I think it is important that we jointly ensure that we stay within measure and consistency with regard to statements on the security policy situation and the development of our common defence.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-713	Madam President, I would like Let me put it this way: this autumn has been nothing like anything else. It's very messy. In fact, we do not have much practical work to do. But we don't have a transitional holiday. I think we should train ourselves to test the muscles and actually do what is right. It will require many discussions across party boundaries, in parties and other things. It's awkward. It's very easy for us to get stuck in that we can't do this and let us wait and so on. But reality does not wait. Let's say it takes four or five months before we get a government in place. What do we do? In this Chamber, we need to consider what we can do with our mandate to bring things in order, and I say this with the long experience I have of parliamentary work. This is untested land. We haven't done it before. But if you have a safe ideological compass and know what you want, it usually can be handled. We'll have to keep working on the defense committee.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-716	Madam President, I would like As regards Category 6 Defence and society's emergency preparedness, we support the Moderates' and KD's draft budgets. We had another draft budget, with more than 28 billion in the next three years and 7 1⁄2 billion in 2019. But at least there will be an increase of more than 3.8 billion, which is what the Swedish Armed Forces are asking for next year. That is why it became natural to support this. It was a little troubling that the KD wanted to cut back on the defense before moving to share the Moderate view. So we wanted to cut back on the defence, which was very worrying. However, Caroline Nordengrip will talk more about the budget later; I will talk about some other areas that are rarely sufficiently clear. I have expressed my concern about the lack of officers and the so-called fast track, the new developments in training officers. I have spoken to Mr Oscarsson on a previous occasion and I think they are on the right track there. In other contexts, we will clarify this in more detail; above all, in the Defence Committee, we are submitting an ill-advised proposal setting out how we view this education. The fast track has become almost like a superacademic in the sense that those who have studied an academic education – for example, political science for two years, which is a number of points – should be able to take advantage of this. It's completely incomprehensible. The war science that you read for five years is about completely different things. The idea that you should be able to shorten the education by entering the profession with academic points in philosophical theory or something else is completely incomprehensible. I ask you all to read carefully about the way that many are advocating now, that is, the fast track. It's going to degrade the officers' skills. The most important thing for the officer is armed combat and nothing else. That's the most important thing. He will learn to lead, send people to death and die himself. That's the most important thing he's got to do with guns in hand. You don't learn that if you don't take these classes. We don't have anything against the academization, but it's supposed to be involved in war science. Another concern is that you try to package this. If you read some suggestions at the Swedish Defence University, you can see that you want to squeeze the education together. The officers' programmes have different abbreviations, and I choose to say a Karlberg of listeners then know what I'm talking about. Then you're supposed to push other higher education down there. So you squeeze this together and you graze the tactics, or the war science, and that's it. Shit, it's not an Excelark, this! Madam President, I would like Regardless of where the officer appears, training, leadership and planning are included. It also includes staff work, and staff work includes tactics. It must permeate this constantly. When you have done military service, you go into, for example, a platoon manager's training. Then you go to Karlberg, and there you can cut it down a year if you now take a platoon manager's education. You go Karlberg, and then you come back and practice. When you have good credentials from practicing in your unit, troop team, you go up and practice to company manager. That's when you go to Company Chief's class. Then you go back to the unit and practice in that position for one or two years. With good testimony, it will be battalion chief course – it has completely different abbreviations and designations than those I now use – and then you go down to the units. You practice in the combat units and practice in your role. All the time there is trooping and troop training in this – to lead and plan. It spins all the way. You can't take any of this. It is not possible to say, as some officers did, that the specialist officer should do the training. I don't want the officer to be able to train a squad. That's what the specialist officer does. If so, it's better that he's the platoon manager, isn't it? This is another system, not what is well-proven in Sweden during all these years. Since the 1960s, it has been considered a requirement that the officer who will study further at a higher operational course must have completed the battalion commander training with good credentials. That's something you're about to take away. It's been shut down. I just want to draw your attention to this, and the book I am holding up now – from profession to profession by Berndt Brehmer – should be read by everyone on the Committee on Defence. It's a Bible to read. It's important. I'm dropping that subject now and moving to the acquisition of medium-range anti-aircraft. There we have said, as you know, before that the purchase of Patriot is bad. There's a cuckoo in the defense, for which all of you here are responsible. Liberals are somewhat excluded, but otherwise you are responsible for this cuckoo. You have refused to allow others to come to the Committee on Defence and prefer alternative solutions. You will also have to assume budgetary responsibility for this; it will be a cuckoo. We have written a motion to investigate the possibility of interrupting this. How much is it? As long as this costs considerably less than buying a real anti-aircraft system, where Swedish radar systems can be involved – CAMM robots – we will continue to fight for this. We want to investigate this. That's what this exercise is about. Let's get to Iris-T-T. The Patriot system is not good enough, but now we need a new robot: Iris-T-T. But it's made for our JAS aircraft. Now we're going to rebuild them, put them on track wagons? Yes! But do you know how it works? All of us politicians must be better, more informed and be able to discuss all these billions of tax dollars. It is not possible to put this in the hands of officials alone. They may be right and I may be wrong, but I want to be a part of discussing your why – the holistic approach. Iris-T- yes, but what are we going to put on the corvettes then? What anti-aircraft system are we going to have on our warships? Have you thought about that? CAMM robots? What type? We all have to demand that things get better. With regard to the environmental permits for shooting fields, it is completely unreasonable for us to assign the task of forming combat groups on Gotland but that they may not fire as they wish. These are appeals for years and environmental permits. We need to get together here so that we can get to order. When they get the assignment to go to the shooting fields, they will of course be allowed to shoot. How hard can it be? We've had that up before, too. I would ask you to come back with another two minutes at the end of the debate.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-730	( THIRD VICE TALMANN: I would like to remind Members to use well-kept language and not to swear in the pulpit. )
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-731	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. This will be my fifth debate on defence economics in this House, in addition to those we have had in the past linked to the orientation decision. It is interesting to see where we are today, 2018, with a few weeks left until next year. One can think about how public activities plan in terms of finances and also about the authorities' ability to plan for the implementation of the economy the Riksdag decides. It is extremely important to take these issues very seriously – providing planning conditions and a horizon in both the short and long term. It is about giving the Armed Forces and other authorities involved in total defence activities the best possible conditions to dimension and implement the measures that are now required. About a year ago, in the Defence Committee, we presented the first interim report on civil preparedness and total defence. We could see that the challenges in our country are enormous when it comes to how this is dimensioned and organised. The parties' representatives in the Defence Committee gave a fairly coherent picture that illustrated what needs to be done in the next few years, but also for the next defense decision. Logistics, infrastructure, planning issues and dependence on imports of supplies, vaccines, medicines and, not least, food – there is much to reflect on, plan for and address in order to be much better prepared. Then a few months passed, and then came the drought, which lasted for much of the summer. We saw how this affected Swedish agriculture and food business but also forestry and forestry. Every week without rain, the problem gradually got worse and worse. To link this up: In December we presented the Defence Committee's report, and then we saw the challenges of the whole summer. One can problematize the whole of that report and think about how we manage to deal with society's crises, how robust the preparedness really is and how we interact militarily and civilly to meet the unexpected. We do not always look later so that we are ready. Not many were able to predict the summer. Let's talk about military planning for the next few years. What's in store? During my years in the Committee on Defence, I have learned a lot about the vulnerabilities, about how the security policy situation has deteriorated, about the unexpected that has happened and about how we have planned for something else. Now we are in a very delicate position. We are implementing the 2015 defence decision and we see that the resources are not sufficient. We have seen it after we have completed the decision twice. Now we need to supplement it further for the remaining two years, but also to lay the foundations for 2021 and beyond. Otherwise, the operational risk will be too great – the ability gap will increase, and the outside world will continue to be equipped. We see it in Russia; we see that it is long-term and purposeful and that it follows the plan. At the same time, we are discussing here not going all the way. We must now provide the necessary conditions for the Swedish Armed Forces to implement the agreed orientation decision. But we must also provide planning conditions for the next five years and years thereafter, because it takes time to regain and build capabilities when it comes to military issues. Therefore, it feels good that the Center Party has also proposed in its motion the resources presented by the Swedish Armed Forces, which are required for these three years, even with regard to the reduced funds. On the basis of the transitional budget's proposals, more needs to be added now than the Swedish Armed Forces requested in the spring. It is also interesting to note that the Swedish Democrats support a proposal which is considerably lower than what has been said before and also called for here in this House and this year, too, has been re-executed. It's interesting to see how fast it turns. Madam President, I would like We have a responsibility in the defence group and in the parties that have concluded the 2015 agreement. We agree to uphold that agreement. All parties – five at that time, and now four – have to follow up on the implementation. This requires resources. I can imagine that we will see new conditions in a few months' time when the conditions for 2020 are presented. This is also an experience we carry with us: how quickly it changes. We get the conditions in August, and then they change a few months later for the coming years. Therefore, the analysis and recommendations of the Swedish Financial Control Agency are also important to continue to work with, to see how we can best manage the funds allocated. The needs in the field of defence are very great. We need a staff recruitment and a staff supply that works over time. We need to ensure that the materials are in place, in the present organisation but also in a future larger one. The recruitment of officers is an extremely important issue to work on. We also need to look at the values that exist around the country in the form of infrastructure that has once been built for military purposes. These are extremely important resources that we can now take advantage of in future defence planning and use together in military – civil collaboration to further strengthen defence capabilities throughout the country. Not least, we see how developments in the Arctic require increased attention in our Chamber and in our parliamentary work in order to understand what is required in the next few years, when the climate changes up in the north. We have enormous needs on the army side – on the ground side. We in the Center Party stress in our draft budget that this requires an increase in capacity in all areas. Not least, we need to ensure that the Home Guard has the prerequisites for the daily, material, night vision and other necessary elements, but also a clear goal for the future. During these years we have contributed a little over 28 billion. We have chosen to remain at the table and negotiate and make deals. We see that it is extremely important for security work and the credibility of defence policy that we make broad agreements, even with a longer timeframe. We have seen that these additions have been important. It's not always you look beyond the horizon. We made our assessment in 2015, and then we have completed. Now we are making another assessment, and it feels good to be involved and contribute to providing the conditions for the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Armed Forces to further increase their overall capability when it comes to our country's defence. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by calling for the approval of reservation 4 in the report.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-749	Madam President, I would like First, I want to apologize if I swore. I am referring to the comment on why we supported the proposal. We had much higher demands. We did not get our own demands through – strangely enough, the House did not vote on our proposal. Then we had to take the second best option. This was the reason for it. I also note that this would not have gone through if the Centre Party and the Liberals had not abstained. It is easy to say: we have come forward with our own budget, but we are abstaining. You knew this budget would go through then. That's one thing. The second is, what does the Center say about the so-called fast track, which I just told you about? And what about the security policy situation? You write that it requires a structure of the defense. If things get calmer on the other side of the Baltic Sea, are you going to start decommissioning again? How do you view this?
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-753	Madam President, I would like Roger Richtoff still surprises me today, when he raises what has been written in his own party movement but still clearly supports a much lower amount. This is the first time we have been at the same level when it comes to defence appropriations in the years that I have been involved in debating defence issues. In the coming months, we in the Defense Committee will conduct a joint analysis of the security situation. We have deliberately waited until the end of the Swedish Defence Committee's work in order to get as updated and relevant a global picture as possible. A lot is done. We reached conclusions in the del report last December. There's nothing against that picture. The world situation is continuing to change. The war in Ukraine continues. Military armaments, not least in Russia, continue in the direction that has been decided. It is clear that the coming spring is important months in the Swedish Defence Committee's work in order to provide a basis for the right priorities in relation to the international situation and to be able to set a clear target for the defence's activities in 2021 – 2025, also for personnel recruitment, which Roger Richtoff addresses in his question. We need an officer's recruitment that both meets the needs and also works practically. We will also discuss this in the work of the Defence Committee in the coming months. There, both Roger Richtoff and the other members of the Defence Committee have the chance to make good proposals based on what we see needed to get the Swedish Armed Forces to grow in the coming years, because that needs to happen.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-758	Madam President, I would like I think the work of the Committee on Defence is doing very well. These are constructive and friendly conversations, I think. In this way, I am trying to stress some important points that I think you should take with you and think about. It's about the officers' recruitment, the fast tracks, the upcoming anti-aircraft systems, and so on, which you must, in your mind, take with you into the Defense Preparation, which will well start tomorrow morning again.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-759	Madam President, I would like The need for long-termness is also linked to the recruitment of officers and the models that we need to develop for this in Sweden. For the Center Party, we strive in the Swedish Defence Committee's work to land at least the Nordic average in terms of resources. We do this to enable us to train more, hire more officers and recruit more to the different parts of the Swedish Armed Forces. When it comes to the time perspective, we are absolutely prepared to review what needs to be done. Over the next few years, there is a vulnerability in terms of personnel recruitment and staffing. This must be present at the same pace as we are now changing up in terms of defence capabilities and also discussing what the organisation should look like in its entirety and in different parts. It can be about additions and perhaps also new establishments around the country to strengthen defence capabilities for the Swedish part in its entirety.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-762	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen, hello to those of you who listen and watch! We are now debating the part of the budget dealing with security, crisis preparedness and defence. Of course, it gives me a golden opportunity to say a few words about the Left Party's defence policy. For the Left Party, the freedom of military alliance and neutrality are by far the most important elements of defence and security policy. This is so important that I will repeat it every time I have the opportunity. The Left Party clearly rejects Swedish membership of NATO. We also believe that the host country agreement between Sweden and NATO should be demolished. Instead of approaching a nuclear alliance, Sweden should mark the importance of peace by signing the UN Convention against Nuclear Weapons. We will, together with the organisations that drive these issues, every time we have the opportunity to remind and demand that this agreement be signed. For the Left Party it is important that Sweden's defence has a strong popular base. Those who participate in the defence work must represent the entire population and have different backgrounds, knowledge and experiences. We all have a common responsibility to face all kinds of threats if they are climate-related, come from misinformation or from racism and extremism. In future, compulsory service should also include civilian elements and strengthen our preparedness for natural and environmental disasters. It is something that we know will become more prevalent in the wake of climate change. The Left Party is a feminist party. Women's rights and experience must always be given a great place in defence policy too. Women and children are the hardest hit during and after conflicts. It is therefore very gratifying to see and hear all the reports and discussions of the past month on women's rights in war and conflict on account of the very worthy recipients of the Nobel Peace Prize. Madam President, I would like Politics is about prioritising. On the basis of our different ideologies and the different positions we take, we give priority to spending differently in the budget we are now discussing. As a voter, it is then a matter of thinking about what is most important to yourself and then choosing a party based on it. The Left Party always prioritises equality in all decisions we make. Every time we make a budget, we think about how we can get the maximum of equality in Sweden. On the way there, we allocate resources and money from those who already have to those who need more. By each one according to his ability, each one ate as needed. The budget decided by Parliament last week is not a budget that provides greater equality. Instead, it is a budget that involves cuts in welfare, a drastic reduction in the environmental and climate budgets and tax cuts for those who already have a high income. Such a budget can never be supported by the Left Party. It matters how we prioritise spending when we draw up a budget. Instead, the Left Party supported the transitional budget presented by the transitional government. We see it as the most logical that the government that we will eventually have will also have to present a budget. The Left Party does not take part in the budget decision, as we believe that the budget should be seen as a whole. However, I would like the House to take note of our special opinion, which we have together with the Social Democrats and the Green Party, in which we explain our positions further. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to highlight and call for the approval of Amendment No 6 by the Left Party on the acquisition of medium-range anti-aircraft. The Left Party believes that we should delay this purchase so that a proper analysis of the purchase and its costs can be made. We are also concerned that a purchase of the Patriot system ties us closer to the USA and NATO, which we in the Left Party do not want.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-774	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling, like Beatrice Ask, for the draft budget of the Moderates and Christian Democrats to be approved. I would also like to call for the approval of reservation 7 concerning the broader role of the Armed Forces. What we are discussing today, the defence and our security, is very important, because what is ultimately about is being able to build a defence that can defend Sweden against external threats. There is an incredible amount of goodness in the world. But there is also evil, and Sweden needs a defence that can defend us. It is therefore very important to strengthen the defence. We have a special situation here in Parliament or, above all, in the case of the government which is a transitional government and which has presented a draft budget, just as it should. However, we can see that it lacks the important contributions that are needed. It is therefore gratifying that the Christian Democrats' and Moderates' draft budgets now provide the necessary input and meet the needs that the Armed Forces itself points to. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Armed Forces have told us what consequences it would have if they did not receive the necessary contributions, and that would have very significant consequences. It would have meant a substantial reduction in exercises, that they could not have obtained equipment, trucks, and that would have been negative for the fulfilment of bandages. That's why it's important that this money is now taken. We announce that the money required will come in both 2020 and 2021. We continue to have a serious situation. Excitement has increased. In 2008, Russia attacked Georgia, and two of its provinces are still occupied. The occupation of Crimea and the ongoing war of aggression against Ukraine show that Russia sees military force as an instrument for achieving political goals. We now see clearly that this is an even more tense and serious situation with the Russian blocking going on right now. Ukraine cannot enter and enter its ships, and there are crews still under arrest in Russia. Three Ukrainian ships with peaceful intentions were hindered by aggressive Russian military. The war in Ukraine is nothing new. Regularly people die in a war in Europe again. And the pro-Russian so-called separatists are nothing more than the Kremlin's extended arm. This conflict has been going on since 2014. So far, over 6 000 people have died in the middle of Europe. Ukraine's capital Kiev is only two hours away by air, and there is a government that has parts of the country in war. This has caused concern in the Baltics, but I think it also makes many Swedes feel that there are major shortcomings in our defence that need to be corrected. That is why it is so important that these supplements take place. Madam President, I would like It is worth recalling that the Christian Democrats want Sweden to join NATO. It is the defence community that is available and with which we work closely. We are partners, and that is good, but we should upgrade to a full member of NATO. This would strengthen security both for Sweden and for our neighbours. At the same time, we need to strengthen our own army. In ten years we want to see a doubling, going from today's two brigades to four. This requires an increase in the number of conscripts from today's 4 000 to at least 8 000. We expect a brigade to be established in Revinge in Skåne, one in Skövde and one in Boden. In addition, we want to see reinforced combat groups here in Stockholm and on Gotland. In addition, we see before us a brigade north of Dalälven with the task of working in upper Norrland or in the Stockholm area. As far as the marine sector is concerned, it is essential to create a presence on the west coast and to increase the number of vessels to allow operations on the east coast and the west coast at the same time. It is also important that today's ships are modernised so that they can appear in a modern combat environment. For example, the corvettes must be equipped with anti-aircraft missiles. The Air Force is of course of the utmost importance to Sweden. There is the most important thing that we can expand the base system so that our JAS planes can spread and thus not be combated from the ground. It also requires an expanded base organisation for the Air Force to use emergency airports. It is also important that the number of JAS Gripen aircraft does not decrease without maintaining the level of 100 planes. Then we need to use the JAS Gripen C/D planes we have for the foreseeable future. It is also important that the flight fleet is extended to four, which means that F 16 in Uppsala is developed into a complete flotilla. I would like to remind you of the civil defence which, of course, has great challenges. One of these is the self-sufficiency of food that is at the bottom level, below 50%. This means that here in Stockholm, for example, we manage for two days before the food items are out of shelves. In Sweden as a whole, we may last seven days. This compares with, for example, Finland where you can last for more than six months. Here there are major challenges that also apply to other policy areas such as agricultural policy. A viable farm must be created. But we also need to have a distribution that works in the event of a crisis or, at worst, a war, because it wants us to ensure that people do not starve to death without food available. Finally, on the question of a broader role for the Swedish Armed Forces, we point out the importance of the Swedish Armed Forces being able to help civil society when resources are insufficient. In the reservation, we particularly point to the importance of the Swedish Armed Forces being able to help in the event of fires.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-789	Madam President, I would like I share Mikael Oscarsson's commitment and ambitions to strengthen the conditions for Swedish total defence. I myself was part of the Defence Committee between 2010 and 2014 and was involved in strengthening the financial framework for the Swedish Armed Forces, among other things. I very much appreciate that the Christian Democrats were involved in meeting the broad defence agreement in 2015. What I do not understand, however, is developments over the past year. The Christian Democrats left the broad agreement in August 2017, and the party has since driven away somewhere completely elsewhere. In speech after speech and newspaper article after newspaper article, the message is that the defence must receive substantial contributions and that Sweden must reach the generally accepted and so often used level of 2% of bnp when it comes to the defence budget. Consider my surprise when, a few weeks ago, I took part in the Christian Democrats' Committee motion. The Swedish Armed Forces' desire for substantial contributions in 2019 – 2021 is met by the Christian Democrats with, believe it or not, 0.871 billion. I say again: 0.871 billion in 2019 – or 0.871 billion to add the more than 47 billion in the transitional government's draft budget for items 1.1, 1.2 and 1.3. Feel it! How do we interpret Christian-Democratic rhetoric? Does the Swedish Armed Forces need substantial contributions? And if so, how does Mikael Oscarsson define the Swedish Armed Forces' budget?
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-793	Madam President, I would like It is very nice to hear ClasGöran agree with commitment and that the Swedish Armed Forces need more money. I hope that we can exchange this commitment that is now in support of the proposal that lies with substantial contributions. The Christian Democrats had added 7.9 billion more in their draft budget than the transitional government in three years. At the same time, we were always prepared for this to be co-written with the Moderates – there could also have been more parties. We agreed on the need, namely for the Swedish Armed Forces to receive these 18 billions, which are more than the 7.9 billion that the Christian Democrats had first proposed. Our point of departure was that we should have a joint text, which is why I am glad that this substantial addition is now needed. At the same time, we see that we must continue up the stairs. This is an important step along the way, but we have to go up to 2%, like most of our neighbours who have already decided to get up there. It would be interesting to hear how ClasGöran and his party view the future. Are we to cross our arms at the level we have now, or are the Social Democrats also on the path that we need to reach a 2% level in order to make the necessary efforts on the army, the air force and the navy?
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-797	Madam President, I would like Mikael Oscarsson can be convinced that the Socialist Party Group here in Parliament has an ambition to strengthen the resources for defence. But it will be a little strange if one week Mikael Oscarsson thinks that 871 million is enough, and then he is satisfied when he gets the moderate help so that he can join 3,829 billion the week after. Explaining it that there would be some sort of conspiracy sounds a little strange. The Christian-Democratic rhetoric about considerably more resources for defence falls flat to the ground when you can cope with 0.871 billion.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-799	Madam President, I would like When it comes to falling flat to the ground, I think that ClasGöran will be responsible for not taking the chance when it is there to support a settlement and a proposal that actually adds to what we seem to have a fundamental consensus that they are needed. It is clear that the money is required, and I am delighted that we have been given the opportunity to add the necessary money so that we can correct the shortcomings pointed out by the Swedish Armed Forces and avoid the consequences that would otherwise have resulted. We are very pleased and pleased that the Swedish Armed Forces are receiving exactly the contributions that they have requested.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-801	Madam President, I would like Allow me to begin by commenting on ClasGöran Carlsson's claim that he and the Social Democrats were involved in pushing increases in defence spending between 2010 and 2014. We have allowed the parliamentary investigation service to compare the envelopes then presented by the opposition with that presented by the alliance government. Had the Social Democrats' budgets been passed in 2006 – 2014 the defense would have had 5 billion less to move around with. Madam President, I would like It is usually said that the defence budget in Sweden is always at 40 billion. After today, we can see that this is no longer the case. We will already be approaching 60 billion in 2019. I will gladly acknowledge to the Social Democrats that I am convinced that if it had not been part of a transitional government, significantly higher funding would have been considered for the Swedish Armed Forces. It is well even the case that in the talks that took place with the opposition representatives, the government wanted to go further in terms of defence, but that was not allowed. It's a message I trust. Madam President, I would like The Liberals wanted in their alternative budget to allocate 25.3 billion over the next three years and 4.2 billion already in 2019. This large, broad consensus that now exists on strengthening the Swedish defence economy is in a way very pleasing but also fundamentally frightening. It testifies to an environment that continues to deteriorate day by day. It has not been more than two hours since Moscow ordered more than ten fighter planes to the Crimea to deal with the expected provocation from Ukraine. I could continue to exemplify here in many ways, but I refrain from doing so. Madam President, I would like These are the reservations that normally appear in a report. I am standing here today without any reservations. I had planned to ask for the approval of two of these. The first was about paragraph 3, namely the government's willingness to get an in blanco mandate to sell of fully functioning, paid and proven JAS Gripen 39 C/ D. Doing so in the present world situation, in the midst of the country's being re-armed into a new fighter aircraft, would have been, to say the least, adventurous. Liberals do not say no to any kind of exports of second-hand defence equipment, but we believe that the government must explain to the committee in detail the reasons for this in the individual case. I am very pleased that the committee unanimously rejected this request for authorisation. The liberals had also exercised that the government should account for the life cycle cost of the anti-aircraft system Patriot. This, too, was the committee's approval. However, I am less satisfied with the descriptions made by the government in its letter which states that it fits within the framework but also adds that after 2021 we will need to prioritise to cope with updates to the system. By presenting a life cycle cost, we in the committee will be able to follow up on the acquisition, not only in the coming years but in the coming decades when the system will be operating in Sweden. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats want to spend even more money on the defense than the Liberals wanted. But it is worth noting that with the Swedish Democrats' defence budget there will be no NATO membership. In this way, any figure that the Swedish Democrats are calling for will be insufficient in relation to parties that recognise the obvious fact that we cannot meet the challenges of military superpowers on our own. Madam President, I would like It's close to Christmas. You should end with something positive. After reading the Swedish Democrats' motion, I can see that they no longer require exclusive male military service in this country. It is a gratifying event that we can see that there is also within the Swedish Democrats a movement towards a feminist defence policy. Madam President, I would like Our proposal has fallen. I therefore refrain from calling for our proposal to be approved. Instead, I refer to the specific opinion that we have submitted.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-812	Madam President, I would like I would like to comment on this with NATO. That pass comes every time. No, we don't want to be in NATO. We would like to move towards a defence alliance with Finland. As the very capable Minister for Defence of the Social Democrats has said, it is cooperation beyond peace-time conditions. That's where I got to say he's been a good defense minister. It is good that the Liberals commend SD for making some adjustments to our political opinion. I have a question for the Liberals. The EU has combat groups. The Swedish Democrats want to close them down. The reason is that what is not practiced will not work in wartime. If you want to keep them, you have to practice them. The first question is: What is the Liberals' view of maintaining the fighting groups? Do the Liberals think they'll work? The second issue is that we have strategic partners, including Brazil. I know that Linköping University also cooperates with the strategic partner on certain development issues. The signals that you can get in the newspapers I think a certain irritation in the strategic partner is that things are going rather slowly with the so-called counter-purchases. Now we are soon faced with the delivery of JAS again. I would like to have a comment on our strategic partner Brazil. How do the Liberals view counter-purchases? Should we have transport aircraft, for example? They also have excellent fire-extinguishing planes and so on. I would like a comment on that.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-818	Madam President, I would like It wasn't that little bit of this. These are very different areas. In the case of a defence alliance with Finland, it can be said that if Swedish and Finnish politicians were prepared to publicly eclude such a union – which I do not think at all – that volume is still too small, in terms of both conventional means and weapons of mass destruction. Russia and Russia's ambassadors are threatening nuclear attacks in various directions across Europe. How is it handled within the framework of a Defence Association with Finland? Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, we live in a world where NATO is necessary. Our dependence on NATO today is so strong that I dare to say that we can no longer use all our elements in military defence independently without NATO's assistance. This dependence now needs to be replaced by a similar influence as members of the alliance. As far as the EU's battle groups were concerned, we were enthusiastic when they were created in 2004-2005. We saw that there was a risk that instead of making efforts internationally, the village would take them towards a precious preparedness, and unfortunately it has become so. I do not think that we should give up hope for Europe as an international security policy player. I think you can find forms that are more cost-effective than those we have had in the past. Counter-purchase is something I genuinely dislike, Roger Richtoff. It's some kind of juste retour, something that reminds me of how to bake tenders in various more or less shady industries. When we buy from, for example, the United States, there is never any demand for counter-purchase at all. I think that's good. It's transparent, clean business where you know what you're paying and what you're getting.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-824	Madam President, I would like Counter-purchase is not something the Swedish democrats have come up with. It's been decided in connection with the deal. Did the honourable Member not know that we are obliged to buy from our strategic partner? Another issue concerns our anti-aircraft system. According to FOI, cruise missiles are the greatest threat. How do the Liberals view a Patriot system that can't handle cruise missiles?
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-826	Madam President, I would like It is true that when Sweden carries out exports, the industry concerned normally enters into a so-called counter-purchase agreement. It is not something that, by definition, benefits neither the Swedish defence industry nor our industry in general. I took this opportunity to express my scepticism against counter-purchase. I am pleased that within the European Union there are quite far-reaching attempts to tackle it in various contexts. Madam President, I would like As far as cruise missiles are concerned, I believe that the Patriot systems can fight both ballistic missiles and cruise missiles. And it is normally much easier to fight cruise missiles than ballistic missiles, which come down to our country at a speed of just over seven kilometers per second.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-829	Madam President, I would like Today is the 100th anniversary of democracy. You have heard this many times in this House. But it's a holiday. I am actually standing here in front of you because I am currently doing my democratic military service. For us to have a functioning democracy, we need to have a transparent agreed playing field followed by the parties involved. We humans have different opinions on many issues. That's what we're gonna have. That is the great development potential of democracy. But in order for it to be precisely a development potential and not a threat to democracy itself, it is extremely important that we who represent the Swedish people follow the agreements and rules that exist. Right now, we are in no-man's-land in terms of how the Riksdag should deal with a transitional government and a transitional budget bill. So we are creating this practice now that we are standing here and through how we have acted after the elections. Before I go into the defence budget specifically, I would like to briefly highlight some facts– you know it, but I would like to highlight it – about the transitional budget bill that the transitional government submitted to Parliament for decision and which Parliament voted down on Wednesday. There are provisions on what a transitional budget proposal should contain and not: A transitional government should only decide on current or urgent matters. It should not put forward proposals that are politically controversial or have a clear party political orientation. The Government Act states that the last budget to be adopted shall continue to apply in the event that the Riksdag has not decided on a new budget. Special principles have been developed for the formulation of the transitional budget bill following contacts with representatives of the government parties as well as the Moderates, the Center, the Christian Democrats, the Liberals and the Left Party. The transitional government has accordingly assessed that the transitional budget proposal for 2019 should be drawn up on the basis of the 2018 budget, listing what is required – pending the entry of a new government that can submit the proposals for changes resulting from that particular government's political orientation. A transitional budget proposal is therefore being made with the intention of giving room for the policy that is being chosen to sit at the helm and also to decide where we are going. At the same time, our authorities in the country will be given clarity in the best possible time to plan their activities for the coming year. That is the intention. Government first, budget see da n. And here we are today with something quite different. The fact that, on this first occasion, when the formation of a government drags on, we cannot agree on an orderly process for democracy to function even in challenging times is worrying. The fact that the financial framework was established on Wednesday, before the budgetary impact was clarified, seems to me to be a democratic loss. Madam President, I would like Certainly, the transitional budget proposal for Category 6 was worrying for the activities as our activities are in an expansion phase with strengthening the total defence – a reinforcement agreed by the government, the Moderates and the Center Party, which was included in the Government's draft budget for 2018. This amounted to SEK 2.7 billion annually from 2018 onwards for an increased operational capability in the armed forces and strengthened capabilities within the total defense that the government parties had agreed with the Moderates and Center Party. However, it was not included in the transitional budget proposal, since it should be attributed to party politics. Now these activities are calmer, as the M-KD budget has gone through where those reinforcements are included so that you can continue to build up total defence according to plans, which is both important and necessary. We think that's a good thing. But the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and county boards around the country are very worried, which is not at all good because everything goes together. Many jobs will disappear from these authorities. 40 per cent of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's total funding for working with climate, environment and nature will disappear, and this will be implemented in the activities over Christmas and New Year when peace and quiet will rest over us. Of course, so much cutbacks are also cutbacks on staff. Climate change poses major challenges and pressures on our society. Close at hand when we talk about climate change in defence is, of course, water and food security and the security of our civil society. The low groundwater levels in recent years provide a premonition of a future in which water scarcity and droughts are becoming more common. The Government therefore proposed in last year's budget efforts to restore and build wetlands, deepen the mapping of our groundwater resources and develop the county boards' work on the protection of drinking water. Wetlands are very important with their water-holding ability. The budget exercise that has now gone through cuts large sums of money in this particular area. The county boards, which are our extended arm down to the population, receive considerably less resources in general. Of course it has effects. Food security also depends on well-functioning associations, such as county administrative boards. Last summer the County Administrative Board of Halland was a crucial player to make it work in the drought with water for the animals, coordination for grazing and so on. I'm sure that's the way it was in the rest of the country, too. The cuts made to climate and the environment, cuts that have never been seen in scale, will also hit hard in areas for which our committee is responsible. For me, honesty is extremely important, as is politics. Democracy takes a beating if we lose that particular ingredient in what we say, write and do. Democracy is based on confidence that clear agreed rules of the game are in place and followed. It can't work otherwise. I am not taking part in the decision but refer to the transitional budget bill and the special opinion we have given from the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-848	Madam President, I would like Today, our democracy celebrates 100 years. The fact that Sweden has enjoyed this privilege is no coincidence, and if we are to experience another 100 years of freedom, it will probably not happen without continued ambitious efforts on our part. We all agree that Sweden needs a strong defence. However, we do not agree on the priorities and means of raising our defence to the level that we Swedish democrats consider necessary to safeguard our freedom over a long period of time. The security policy situation may change rapidly, as we have recently witnessed, but military capabilities are being built slowly and we should therefore be strongly equipped even under peace conditions. Sweden's defence is based on a declared popular will that Sweden should be an independent and free nation and on a defence force that can credibly assert the ability to protect the whole country through an organised total defence in collaboration with civil society. At the beginning of the 1980s, the share of defence in GDP was as much as 2.9 per cent and then gradually decreased to the current level of nearly 1 per cent. The whole arm of defence is threatened by not living up to the operational capability we have set ourselves, and this can happen in the space of just a few years. Unfortunately, however, we are seeing today a society that does not take peace and freedom very seriously, a society that has allowed defence to become a special interest with the ultimate decision-makers at the forefront of gradually cutting back on the funds needed to maintain the foundations of our independence. We are relieved that it is now decided to devote more resources to our defence, as we Swedish democrats have long been saying as necessary. We need to start over from scratch, to reintroduce emergency stocks of food, medicines and other basic products vital for society to be functional in the event of a crisis or war. We also need to strengthen civil defence with a clearer division of responsibilities and directives and follow-up during reconstruction. We need to train officers, crews and volunteers as well as expand them in numbers. The equipment order needs to take off, and you also need to ensure the availability of everything from shelters to exercise areas. Laws need to be adjusted to facilitate exercise activities, and further efforts will be needed to achieve increased knowledge to meet relatively new threats such as terrorism and cyber threats. Madam President, I would like I could continue to paint the image of the reinforcements that are urgently needed after the disarmament that has taken place for decades, but I now think it is more important to look forward. ambitious defence targets have been set, but the means have proved insufficient to ensure that they become a reality. We want to see a new way of thinking in which you put the budget after the assignments that have been given to the Swedish Armed Forces and not the other way around. Otherwise, it risks creating unreasonable expectations of the outcome of the funds allocated, and there may be a persistent lack of sufficient funds for the given task. In order to guarantee national security and independence, disarmament must be brought to an immediate end. The countries in our absolute vicinity have defence appropriations of almost 2% of GDP or have taken the decision that this is a path that economic policy around defence must now take. We, too, should move in this direction and ensure by law that the funds remain at the level that is necessary. Initially, we may need to go beyond 2% temporarily, because the construction of our defence will be very costly, and then to level out around 2%, i.e. if the situation in the outside world has not deteriorated further. It is important that we give the military and civilian parts of the defence the opportunity to work long-term, and we therefore consider it necessary that the Constitution be amended in order not to allow governments to re-use the defence as a budgetary regulator in the future. Madam President, I would like We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of the reservations of the Swedish Democrats Nos 3 and 7.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-861	Madam President, I would like In my speech, I would like to return to the reason why we need a strong defence. What is the threat of security policy that we have heard so much about? Madam President, I would like Let me give you a concrete example. Almost all the cities of the former Soviet Union have an Ulitsa Lenina, a street in the center named after Vladimir Lenin. I've been walking on several of those myself. I have also walked on it that the following event took place. In the centre of the city of Kertj on Crimea, Ukraine, on March 3, 2014, men dressed in combat without a designation of nationality appeared right there and began to block military units. Almost at the same time busloads of more men dressed in war began arriving with weapons that they hid in Russian Orthodox churches. Madam President, I would like During the plenary session of the Swedish Parliament this seems to be a description in a bad detective. It wasn't. On 5 March, all Ukrainian television channels in Crimea were shut down. Instead, only Russian channels were broadcast. Some month later, a so-called referendum was held, and Crimea actually became part of Russia. Russia had carried out an illegal annexation of a territory of another European country through military aggression. A few weeks later, Russia started a war in eastern Ukraine that claimed the lives of more than 10,000 people. It's a war that's still going on. We often and rather casually talk about freedom, not least in the party to which I belong. But what is freedom? Freedom is to be able to control your life independently. Olga, Andrej and Tanja were deprived of that freedom on March 3, 2014. Instead of continuing their lives in Crimea, they now live as internally displaced persons. Madam President, I would like This is not a story about Kertj on Crimea in Ukraine. This is the story of when the security policy situation changed forever in Europe. This is the story of why Sweden needs a strong defence. Russia has established itself as a military superior power in the Baltic Sea region. Should a conflict arise, Sweden will suffer directly or indirectly. In an interview in Svenska Dagbladet, Säpo director noted that he was particularly concerned about the extensive espionage and intelligence threat from Russia that Sweden is exposed to. The aim is to destabilise Sweden. For the Liberals, it is clear that defence capabilities need to be increased in several ways. The defence of Sweden is the main task of the Swedish Armed Forces. This defense is not free. We need to increase the budget to 2% of GDP. The Liberals have in their budget motion a clear roadmap for achieving this. The defense must cost. Unfortunately, the problem is that no matter how much money the Swedish Armed Forces receive, Sweden cannot match a military superpower. It is therefore important to strengthen and develop international cooperation. The government must apply for NATO membership immediately. Madam President, I would like My party partner has already declared our pleas. Our proposal has fallen, and we therefore support our particular opinion.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-872	Madam President, I would like Let me start by referring to and supporting Beatrice Ask's motion. The main focus of defence policy must be to increase the operational capacity of the armed forces here and now and step up the work on total defence. The reason for this is ultimately that the development of security policy in our neighbourhood continues to deteriorate. Unfortunately, the risk of an armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. Having said that, I think it is urgent that we manage to keep two thoughts in mind at the same time when we are discussing the future direction of defence policy. At the same time as we are strengthening operational capabilities here and now by adding more material and creating the conditions for more practice activities within the Swedish Armed Forces, we also need to follow and take in the rapid technological development that we see taking place in our surrounding world. This technology development is strongly characterized by increased automation, robotics and artificial intelligence. It will change the way we live our lives over the next few decades. But it will also fundamentally change the modern battlefield. This will lead to greater use of drones, autonomous systems in all arenas, better remote combat capabilities and increasingly advanced cyber attacks. All of this must be raised as we now try to balance objectives and resources in the defence budget. There is a risk that Europe and Sweden will fall back in the field of military technology. Within the EU, investment in defence research has fallen by 40% over the last decade. During the same period, the Swedish Armed Forces' funding for research and technology development has also decreased by 70 per cent from 2 billion down to approximately 600 million per year. This is linked to certain security policy risks, as military activities are, as is well known, highly technology intensive. Madam President, I would like The budget that we are debating today comes with three urgent comments in this area. Firstly, it is good that the Swedish Armed Forces' funding for research and technology development is now being strengthened. You can still say it's a trend break. This happens for the first time in almost 20 years. Secondly, it is a good thing that more funds are provided to the Swedish Defence Research Institute. Thirdly, it is fundamentally positive that the EU is now increasing its ambitions in this area, including the creation of a defence fund. Properly designed, the Defence Fund can help to better coordinate European efforts in this area and also strengthen Swedish defence capabilities. But then we need to have a proactive and influential government that can protect Sweden's interests in Brussels. In this respect, some criticism should be levelled at the government's passive and relatively low level of ambition in terms of participation in Pesco projects. Madam President, I would like I have spent a lot of time with the future battlefield and technology development. Traditionally, it is usually divided into land, air and sea, but more and more we are also talking about the cyber arena as the fourth arena of modern warfare. It is an area where Sweden is suffering from major problems. In international measurements of countries' cyber security, Sweden usually comes a long way down when our overall capabilities are evaluated. The problems in the cyber area in Sweden are both organisational and legal and are also about a lack of resources. The Moderates have therefore put forward a number of sharp proposals to improve the overall grip on cyber defence capabilities in Sweden. Among other things, we want to establish a cyber coordination function in the Government Office. We have also proposed the creation of a cyber-operation centre under the headship of the FRA. The draft budget being debated today also provides for increased funding for strengthening cyber defence work by Must and the FRA. This is absolutely essential if we are to be better equipped in the future in this arena too.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-887	Madam President, I would like With the Moderates' and Christian Democrats' proposals for the budget, there will be increased funding for the defence – yes, in fact, for the entire total defence. It is important, and I am proud as a moderate that we have made this important priority. Because it's needed. If we do not do this priority now, it will cost even more later without getting more for the money. A delay in defence efforts would thus be a cost. And that, Madam President and honourable Members, is unnecessary. We all know that the security situation in our neighbourhood has deteriorated in recent years. The Baltic Sea region is again in focus. We can only see in Ukraine, as many people have been talking about here today, that Russia does not shy away from using military means against its neighbours. Sweden would inevitably be affected in the event of an armed conflict in the Baltic Sea region. We must all take this seriously. In the short term, the Swedish Armed Forces must complete the decided war organisation. However, great importance also needs to be attached to strengthening the capacity to mobilise the entire war organisation in the event of increased preparedness. It is of course important here that the objectives set for the provision of human resources are met. For the marine forces, the presence in the Baltic Sea is of particular importance. We also see that the marines are facing major challenges in the coming years. There we need good planning but of course also good cost control, traceability and follow-up, just as in the entire defence. It's not a small investment we talk about when we talk about submarines, for example. MSB receives increased resources in our budget to strengthen the work of building civil defence. That's very good. I have written a letter this year where I have said that I hope that a crisis package will be this year's Christmas present. It's a Christmas present that you wouldn't actually have to open but which is so important. Certainly, Madam President, it would be a good Christmas present! It is not only the increased uncertainty in the world that poses a threat that we must be prepared for. These include forest fires, floods and cyber attacks. We ourselves – each individual – must take responsibility. But MSB has the task of developing the ability of society as a whole to prevent and manage accidents and crises. Here, we Moderates think it is important to strengthen the work of building civil defence. These include, for example, support for contingency planning, development of civil protection in the event of increased preparedness and health care security in crisis and war. Earlier in this House, we have debated the Swedish National Audit Office's review of food and pharmaceutical supplies, and we have all seen major shortcomings. It simply needs to be improved. The draft budget presented by Mr M and Mr KD offers these possibilities. It is with pride that I stand here today and put forward the same motion that Beatrice Ask made just recently to get a really good budget for Sweden's total defence.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-897	Madam President, I would like I would just like to make a brief comment on the Patriot system. It is claimed that it can fight cruise missiles. It has a radar that covers 120 degrees. They shot that system off during the Aurora drill. That's the system we're talking about. The cruise missile should come from the right direction. I don't have to say more than that. You can also buy many extras. You have a data link in. You cut it, you don't have a system at all. Now we're talking about expanding to multiple data links. I was just going to add a little splasher about a coming thing that I think one could somehow touch on in this context. It's a matter of community emergency preparedness. I have spoken many times in this House about the greatest threat to our way of life and our freedom. Is it directed from outside towards Sweden, or is it within Sweden's borders? Does the development we see in the country have anything to do with society's emergency preparedness? Yeah, we think so. I believe that we must pay attention to this and include it in our thoughts as regards the development that is taking place. There are bombs, killings, rapes, robberies and an increasingly escalating spiral of violence within the borders of the country. Does it have anything to do with society's emergency preparedness? Are we ever going to touch on this? Yeah, we think so. I will come back to this. Do we soon have some form of low-intensity civil war in the country? These are important issues to discuss. I just wanted to warn you that I will deal with this in a longer debate at a later date. Thank you for the debate.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-902	Madam President, I would like It is quite correct that the sensors in the Patriot system cover only 120 degrees, not 360, which would be the whole yard around. This is precisely why you choose to buy several sensors for the firing units. You do it to get just a coverage around the entire horizon. That's how simple that explanation is. I do not know whether to get involved in what Roger Richtoff says about an escalation of crime in Sweden and whether it is a matter for our civilian crisis management or our civil defence. Now Roger Richtoff promised to come back to this on occasion. Perhaps we should take that discussion then, but it is clear that different phenomena within the borders of the country can be described in different ways as uncertainties in terms of the survival and stability of our society. I can note that when it comes to the view of Russia, the Swedish Democrats have not always been in agreement with the other political parties. Or I can quote Roger Richtoff's party leader from the election movement: Macron or Putin – passport.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-905	Madam President, I would like Macron has some problems himself. He was in Sweden a while ago and criticized us – my party. He has great problems himself in his country today. I do not attach much value to him, I have to say, in the general political debate. I think the story will soon be over. As far as internal politics is concerned, I said I would come back. I believe in some way that we cannot set a clear limit at the escalating spiral of violence in Sweden and say that it has nothing to do with society's crisis preparedness. We should, I think, take heights for this in some form of discussion in the future, perhaps not here and now. Then there's the Patriot system. Yes, you buy two more radar systems with links. Now millions are starting to roll in these systems. Other countries have these systems – Poland and Germany to some extent. If you read those newspapers, you can see that they have expressed that they have difficulties with maintenance. Very much in these systems is classified. And there's a lot of criticism about how it works. It has evolved since I participated in various forms during the Gulf War in 1991. You can't really compare it, but I guess that hit about one in three. It has evolved, so that comparison limps substantially. But it's not a system that we can apply to our warships. We need protection, and we need a coherent system. I think that within the framework of Pesco we should have a defence cooperation when we are there, for example in this area, which benefits the Swedish defence industry increasingly.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-910	Madam President, I would like I am pleased to hear that Mr Richtoff expresses his appreciation for Pesco. It is, of course, an important mechanism within the European Union aimed at improving common security. This is good to hear. At the same time, it's a little surprising. With regard to the Patriot system, I have to say that I share the concern about the costs that will be required in terms of updating the system. I once again regret that the government has chosen to laconically state that it fits within the framework, at least until 2021.
i-UMijHh9x6uBgkepGjkvV2o	Madam President, I would like Today, we are debating the Defence Committee's report No 3, the establishment of the armaments staff. We think that Moderates are a proposal in the right direction. Not only does it give greater responsibility in the defence organisation, but it also increases the robustness of our defence capabilities. It also creates better conditions to scale up our ability in the long term. It is clear today that organisation, governance and follow-up within the Ministry of Defence and within the defence authorities are not working optimally. A number of problems have been highlighted from different directions. This includes, for example, an asymmetrical relationship and a lack of dialogue between the ministry and the authority, as well as between the authority and the authority, excessive detail management by the authority on less important issues, a lack of traceability of decisions and, in some cases, substandard evidence. On the basis that the defence will grow and the defence budget will increase, these shortcomings need to be addressed. In this context, the establishment of defence staff is, as I said, a proposal in the right direction, but more changes are needed. The Defense Committee proposes that the department currently in place at the Ministry of Justice, which is responsible for civil defence, be transferred to the Ministry of Defence and form its own department that has gathered responsibility for total defence planning. The Moderates believe that the Fortifications Agency should also be transferred to the Ministry of Defence in order for it to become a total defence department. The Alliance's joint proposal for enhanced civilian preparedness also proposes that the Coast Guard be transferred to the Ministry of Defence. With regard to the Swedish Armed Forces, there is a need to strengthen the role of the Director General and the financial steering function. The defence committee's proposal for an independent authority for monitoring and evaluating total defence is an important step in improving long-term building of capabilities and cost control. In the previous case, concerning Category 6, it was a unanimous committee that supported both the moderate proposal to revise the investment plan for the Swedish Armed Forces and the Liberals' proposal on life cycle cost accounting for medium-range air defence. Both of these proposals are about getting better cost control but also ensuring the Swedish Armed Forces' ability. Last week we decided to increase the framework for the Swedish Armed Forces by over 3 billion. That's a lot of money. The problem is that it is far from enough. It will have to be pushed much more if we are to strengthen our defence capabilities. In this context, it is well-provoked that ten months ago the Minister of Defence commissioned the Swedish Financial Control Agency to analyse and assess whether the financial data from the Swedish Armed Forces are appropriate as a basis for the budget process. ESV's conclusions are that there are significant shortcomings not only within the Swedish Armed Forces and FMV but also in the Government Office. If these shortcomings persist, we risk literally throwing the money into the lake. For this reason, there should be a clear focus on correcting the deficiencies and ensuring in every decision we take that measures are taken continuously to ensure that the deficiencies disappear. I find it rather remarkable that the whole committee does not support the Liberals' motion on this matter. Of course, we Moderates are in favour of the reservation under paragraph 2.
i-B3tt8goQp8e4tA582yNkdF	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the establishment of defence staffs. I would like to begin by calling for the reservation in paragraph 2 to be accepted. It is about ongoing advice and evaluation before and during the Swedish Armed Forces' reorganisation and relocation. The motion has been awakened by Allan Widman. The relocation is a very good thing. The army will be led from Enköping, the Navy from Muskö in Haninge and the Air Force from Uppsala. This is something that is basically good and positive. However, as it says in the motion brought by Allan Widman, and which we support, we need to ensure that there is no cost or delay. During the past year, Statskontoret, assisted by the Swedish Financial Control Agency, has supported the Swedish Armed Forces in terms of the effectiveness of the Swedish Armed Forces' financial documentation. It is important to ensure that this is followed in the reorganisation process. We propose a special system of ongoing advice and evaluation during the reorganisation to ensure that costs are not deducted.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-922	Madam President, I would like I suspect that the purpose of the mission that was given this spring to ESV and Statskontoret when it came to checking the effectiveness of the Swedish Armed Forces' financial planning might not be that ESV would come back and say that there is a further 29 billion missing in the current material plan. But who knows? Maybe that was the purpose. You should be careful in politics when you decide what you want. Because it is very possible to get it. What we have on the table today is the result of what the ÖB said almost three years ago, namely that it is not wise to have all the eggs in one basket. We have previously discussed both ballistic missiles and cruise missiles and the enormous range they have, as well as the high precision these weapons also possess. It is important that we do not become an easy target for any opponent, and by locating our forces of defence this risk is significantly reduced. Liberals therefore have no problem at all with the basic idea behind this proposal. However, we must also recognise that there are a wide range of risks associated with this kind of reorganisation. An important such risk is that many employees in the Swedish Armed Forces will soon be changing workplaces. This does not mean changing from one block to another block on Östermalm, but it can suddenly be 50, 60 or 70 kilometres to the workplace. When these are implemented, we know from experience that there is a risk of skills losses, i.e. drop-outs. Nor can it be overlooked that, when the central armed forces are being re-run, there is, at least during the process of relocation and perhaps some time after, a risk of a loss of command. Depending on the world situation, it is more or less bad. Madam President, I would like What strikes you when you read the bill is above all the financial risks. The government has not endeavoured to make any financial assessment of the costs in this case, but is content to say that initially there will be high costs and that, as we say, it will be self-financing, over time. How long that time is does not know the Swedish parliament, nor does the government. Nor do we know how high the initial costs are. This can at best be likened to hope, and that is not good enough, Madam President. We are talking about a reorganisation and a relocation which, in my opinion, concerns quite a few hundred million SEK. It is not a two-roomer at Södermalm that is to be moved, but we are talking about the management structure, infrastructure, technical solutions and systems – and a large number of employees. For this reason, we proposed having specific ongoing advice and evaluation during the process of relocation. Experience has shown that this can be very wise, Madam President. I'm in favour of the reservation.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-930	Madam President, I would like Today's a big day. On 17 December 1918, a historic decision was made that women should also have the right to vote in Sweden. It is also celebrated here in Parliament today; the opening of the parliamentary democracy anniversary is under way. We have had 100 years of democracy, and the day in honour of which has been introduced a temporary general flag day precisely to mark this day and this important decision. That is why it actually feels extra solemn to be standing in this speaker's seat today. Madam President, I would like It is an important issue that we are now debating in the report – the establishment of defence staffs. An important part of the Swedish Armed Forces' role is to protect and protect our democracy. This is extremely important as our security situation and the development of the world around us have deteriorated over time. Madam President, I would like The Parliament has decided that the goal of the military defence from 2016 onwards shall be to defend Sweden and promote our security individually and together with others, within and outside the country, by: 中 asserting Sweden's sovereignty and safeguarding sovereign rights and national interests Prevention and management of conflicts and wars Protect Sweden's freedom of action in the event of political, military or other pressure and, if necessary, defend Sweden against incidents and armed attacks Protect society and its functionality in the form of support to civil authorities. Madam President, I would like The single most important thing during the defence orientation period 2016 – 2020 is to increase the operational capability of the military units and ensure the overall capability of the total defence. In the budget base for 2019, the Swedish Armed Forces requested the establishment of defence staff with location to Enköping, Haninge and Uppsala. Defence design should be based primarily on the ability to face an armed attack and must allow political and military freedom of action and have an inherent flexibility to deal with the changing nature of challenges and threats. The current leadership of the Swedish Armed Forces has long been based on centralised governance of the agency's tasks. The centralisation of the management capacity to Stockholm's inner city creates an increased vulnerability in the changing world situation, which many have touched upon. Therefore, it is now important that the establishment and location of the defence armaments staff take place, which according to the Swedish Armed Forces is motivated, among other things, by the deteriorating development of the surrounding world. The purpose of setting up the teams, like the rest of you, is to increase the robustness of the management organisation by increasing geographical spread. The Government shares the Swedish Armed Forces' assessment that the said organisational units should be set up and considers it urgent that this can be done as soon as possible. Having said that, Madam President, I support the proposal contained in the report.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-941	Madam President, I would like We are in favour of this. We have been for a long time – for years. We believe that it is absolutely necessary to do this. Having heard Mr Widman from the Liberals, I can say that I share the view that this will cost money. It will be really expensive, I think – considerably more expensive than what is said. Nevertheless, we think it is urgent and justified. There are a lot of built security systems on the bases you have chosen. Muskö and Enköping have built up via the signal regiment, and it is also available in Uppsala. The real costs should therefore be limited. Nor do I think that the correct calculation is made if you think that the costs are reduced when you move out of a headquarters. No, they don't. The rent's still there. It's a little cold, if you don't fill them with other staff. But as long as you stay in this building, which costs a lot of money, while the government has unfortunately made demands to take out higher rents in practice – you will increase the requirements for renting, and it landed at the Armed Forces with increased rents – it will be more expensive. Despite this, it is very important that you move the staff out, for safety reasons. You can't put all the eggs in a basket. If the Armed Forces then come back and think it cost 100 million or 200 million – yes, that's it. It will be interesting to see what it lands on, but I think it will land at around 200 million in the end. I think so. I hope I'm wrong. We have heard the figure of 50 million – good! But I still think this should be done. We cannot have the joint defence forces sitting in one place, especially if they are to be protected by a Patriot system. Someone mentioned here that skills can be lost and officers stop. Today, we lose about 25 to 30 percent of those who leave Karlberg. Why? Well, you read the academic part, and it doesn't cost money. You also study other academic educations. I think the supply of skills starts early. As we have said, it starts with military service, and then it goes up all the time: troop team training from the regiment, back to the regiment, and practice there. Then you get a feeling for the squad. Now you come in from many different places, without the feeling of the dressing needed. The officers who work with these parts in Stockholm – if what they have investigated now is correct – will essentially remain. If that's true or not, we don't know, but that's the signal we're getting. A certain skill gap I think will also happen, but the overall thing is to move the staff out. I think the government is doing the right thing, and we support this.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-947	Madam President, I would like When I listen to Roger Richtoff, I wonder if he has understood what is proposed in the Liberals' motion. We fully agree that this move should be carried out, but we are concerned that the Armed Forces may need support – not only in financial calculations but also by expert authorities to limit the risks involved. So, as far as the basic proposal is concerned, everyone in this Chamber seems to be in complete agreement. However, I get a little conjured when I hear Roger Richtoff say: Yes, it will probably cost a lot more money than you have planned, and it will take a lot longer. Clearly, we should accept this without trying in any way to limit such harmful consequences. It is difficult for me to understand that we in here, which actually have the right to allocate all the funds to the state, can reason in such an easy way– yes, it will probably be more expensive and take longer, and we may also lose the skills – but in no way be prepared to relate to that risk or act to reduce it.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-949	Madam President, I would like As Mrs Caroline has just said, we have as a principle the assignment of tasks to the Armed Forces that it carries out. Then you talk about what it costs, but you will implement them. You have a completely different principle. First, you're gonna hand over a bag of money and discuss whether or not to move. But the Swedish Armed Forces are working on this now, and on the costs. The task to be solved is to relocate this, and you work with it. Then you come back, and will we say no? No, we won't. There is a difference if the Swedish Armed Forces say: We do this ourselves; we will not reconnect with how much it costs. You don't do that. So what's the point of saying this? Should we put them in more work and send further signals to the Swedish Armed Forces? Now sit down and start planning again! They are obliged to – and say that they will – return with what money is required to solve the task that we are telling them to solve.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-952	Madam President, I would like I am beginning to sense that the Swedish Democrats are in on a new, revolutionary budgetary technique, which means that we are handing out tasks in this House and then afterwards, when they reconnect, as Mr Richtoff says, see what it has cost and what has been achieved for that cost. Madam President, I would like I am, as the English say, still confused but on a higher level. I do not understand why we should not act to minimise the economic and other risks that we already see in advance, but wait for the blow afterwards.
i-f2a285f473cb94d1-954	Madam President, I would like If I interpret the Liberals correctly, you are counting on a saving on the relocation. You were already counting on savings last year. Isn't that right? In any case, we differ. We in the Swedish Democrats believe that one has a task – for example, we should have three, four or five brigades, to be deployed according to the Swedish Armed Forces' directive. Then they come back to us and tell us that these goals, to defend the whole country, cost this many billions. We need submarines to do this, and we need an anti-aircraft system. We tell them to get an anti-aircraft system, and they're asking for money for it. Liberals' thoughts and ideas are that we should first distribute tasks to them. Then over the years we will have a dialogue, and then they will have a bag of money. That's exactly what you've done before. Then we start constantly to reduce this, and then we have to change the objectives of the defence. We have to decide whether to make demands on the Armed Forces to do certain things. You're supposed to defend the whole country? Then come back and tell us what resources are needed. Either we distribute money for the goals we set, or we have to change the defence objectives. Now you're moving out! Yes, they say, and so they sit and count and return to where they need to reinforce the budget. Then we'll give them that money, after a careful account. Does anyone here want to back down, if they say 50 million? Then you want to back off and tell them to stay on? It's the Liberal idea, but we don't have that idea. That's how we get divorced.
