i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-1	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Environment and Agriculture Committee's report 8 on hunting and game conservation. The report comes from the general period of exercise. Most of the requests have been dealt with in the House in the past and are therefore now being simplified because nothing new has happened, nor has the government done anything special in this area recently. Madam President, I would like It is clear that the Social Democrats do not think hunting and game conservation is particularly important as it is evident in the debate that the governance of these issues has been handed over to the Green Party in the government. This is serious, and that is also why we are going wrong on certain issues right now. Madam President, I would like The efforts of hunters are of paramount importance for Swedish wildlife conservation. Thanks to the hunters' efforts, we have a very good game management and viable game tribes in the country. The hunters contribute with everything from the reporting of game, game counting and the search for traffic-damaged game to support feeding, regulating our game strains, and more. The Moderates wish to emphasise the importance of safeguarding the interests of hunters, both at national and EU level. Among other things, recent year's planned changes to the EU arms directive can be mentioned. At EU level, the government's handling of the issue was very unclear and risked the weapons of Sweden's hunters and shooters. Only under pressure from a clear majority in the Riksdag did the government start to work clearly that the proposed changes would not affect the hunters. Since then, the government has carried out an investigation into the implementation of the Weapons Directive in Sweden, which seeks once again to impair the country's hunters, shooters and arms collectors, but we Moderates will stand up for these. Sweden has among the hardest educations and demands in Europe to buy and use weapons, and it is not our hunters and shooters who commit terrorist and weapon crimes in this country. However, we must actively work to remove the illegal weapons that have been smuggled in and are still being smuggled into Sweden. Here the government and the police should put their resources to reduce the weapons crimes in Sweden. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Hunter Association's work according to the general mandate works well and is carried out in a both efficient and responsible manner. The general mission is a good example of good cooperation between civil society and authorities. Through the general assignment, the state has access to the network that the Swedish Hunter Association has and thus reaches a large part of hunters in a cost-effective way. It is therefore unfortunate that the government, by reviewing the general mission, is opening up to change the order that has ensured for a long time both popular anchoring and proper game management. We believe that the Swedish Hunter Association should continue to have intact responsibility for the general mission. Madam President, I would like The rapid emergence of the wild boar strain in Sweden has brought with it widespread problems. For farmers, it is about broken crops, fields and grasslands and thus reduced harvests. For car drivers, it is about thousands of traffic accidents per year with wild boars. Thanks to the rate of reproduction of wild boars, there are great opportunities to increase the displacement of the animals and bring more meat to the market, but then we need to make it easier. It has to pay to trap wild boars and sell their meat. We want to facilitate the handling of wild boar meat and that the meat after Trichinella control should be handled like any other game meat, i.e. the requirement is that it be tested for Trichinella in the same way as hunters today do for self-consumption and that the hunters who sell meat can present certificates that the meat has been tested for Trichinella. This will facilitate the management of wild boar meat and increase interest in hunting wild boar. We also want game meat to increase in our public kitchens. Today, about 4.5 million meals are served in health care, school, and care. If municipalities and county councils procured more game meat, in particular wild boar meat, demand would increase, which in turn would mean that hunters could get better paid for the meat and that the interest in wild boar hunting would probably increase. We would like to see more municipalities and county councils procure wild meat for the public kitchens and therefore make an effort to do just that. Madam President, I would like A functioning hunting and game conservation in Sweden also requires a functioning handling of legal weapons. Today, the processing times for arms licences are too long, and the Police Authority has been severely criticised by, among others, the Parliamentary Ombudsmen for these long processing times. Hunting and target shooting are deeply rooted in Swedish society and part of our popular movement. For many people, hunting is a lifestyle and often determines the choice of place of residence. It is important to have both clear and clear rules and to make a proper trial of those seeking arms licences. At the same time, it is important that society does not put unnecessary obstacles in the way of careful hunters and shooters. Madam President, I would like Arms case handling needs to be speeded up and arms legislation needs to be clarified in order to reduce processing times. A review of the overall regulatory framework for licensing and possession of legal weapons is needed to create a regulatory framework that does not make it difficult for the country's hunters and sportsmen. In the context of a review of arms legislation, it should also be possible to allow hunters and shooters to hold more weapons for their hunting and shooting. Madam President, I would like In 2012, we introduced a new elk administration in the country. In the report, we want a review and an evaluation of the elk management and game management delegations, but this too has been voted down by the government and the Green Party. We want to look at what works well and what could work better in these delegations. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to endorse reservation No 1 on cloven-hoofed game, reservation No 4 on the general mandate and reservation No 5 on evaluation of the elk administration.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-16	Madam President, I would like The Swedish democrats are of course behind all their reservations, but for the winning time we only ask for reservation 3 on hunting agents. Sweden is a large and vast country with large forests and a countryside that was only a few generations ago the home of most Swedes. This is where the old culture of allmuge and tradition persist to a large extent. Many generations have lived and worked in harmony with nature, cultivated the land and lived from what the forest has given in the form of wood, wood, berries and mushrooms. The Swedish Democrats have a positive attitude towards Sweden's hunting corps, which to a large extent owns and carries on knowledge of animals, nature and culture. Hunting is generally high, and game management generally works well. However, the game administration has a number of unsolved knots, and the Swedish Democrats have expressed their ambition to be a constructive force in making this policy area work better than it does today. Madam President, I would like The policy of the Swedish Democrats is to strive for reduced conflicts and problems between predators and people in rural areas. All the large predators must be managed responsibly, and the combined predatory pressure must be maintained at reasonable levels throughout the country. The management aims to keep the numbers of predators at an appropriate level, when too large strains ultimately strike back at the predators themselves. The concentration of predators is troubling in some parts of the country, not least in western Svealand and southern Norrland. In many cases, where hunting, outdoor activities and animal husbandry have been possible, one can no longer feel the sense of security and freedom that one once felt when living in the countryside. In order to maintain the acceptance of predators, policies need to take greater account of regional conditions when granting permits for licence or protection hunting. We are now seeing greater activity from so-called fighter opponents and animal rights activists, who often have their political residence in anarchist or socialist groupings with little or no respect for democracy, property rights or the purpose of the hunt. Recently, several hunters have been subjected to threats, persecution and vandalism from these masked activists in connection with the hunting of wolves. Even hunters and organizers of hunting dog competitions have been affected by the ravages of animal rights activists. In this respect, the police and the judiciary must step up their efforts to ensure that citizens can trust the justice system. Otherwise, the risk is that we will see an escalating situation with the risk that humans and animals will be seriously harmed. Madam President, I would like There are examples of how environmental organisations receive grants to actively discourage government decisions. The Swedish Democrats believe this is an unreasonable order. For example, the Nature Protection Association receives annual contributions from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to process wolf hunting in court and to pursue the issue in the EU. We believe that this is an order that must cease. According to the Environmental Code, non-profit associations are granted the right to appeal against certain judgments and decisions related to the Environmental Code. These associations are usually ideologically carried and may have a certain ideological list in their direction. The law and its interpretation are problematic and have a major impact on the opportunities for healthy hunting and game conservation. We therefore believe that the government should clearly investigate the consequences and come back with proposals on how to improve legislation and enforcement. Madam President, I would like The wild boar strain grows strongly in some parts of Sweden and is at the same time a game that is laborious to manage as it is a nocturnal and shy animal. I have never seen a wild boar in the wild in Värmland, for example. But maybe I'm not out at night. In some places wild boars cause costly damage to the agricultural industry. Therefore, there are good reasons to simplify administration by having a more permissive regulatory framework in force. Good wild boar management must be done in agreement with the hunting corps. More means should be allowed without bureaucraticly cumbersome exemptions, for example in relation to e-mail cameras and night visions. Furthermore, more approved wild boar traps need to be developed. We also think that today's demands for permission for camera monitoring at baits should be removed. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Hunter Association has for many years – in fact since 1938 – a general mission to care for parts of hunting and game conservation in Sweden. The Swedish Democrats see in the League an invaluable competence with high credibility, and the League has strong ties with the hunting corps. This means that the importance of the general mission for hunting and game conservation in Sweden cannot be overestimated. The hunters' hunting card fee will continue to enter the game conservation fund and will then be distributed to different types of activities. We think that's a good thing. Madam President, I would like For the Swedish Democrats, it is important that the game administration functions satisfactorily, not least in order to minimise road accidents and injuries to agricultural industries, but also in order for the game strains to be healthy and strong. In fact, it is a prerequisite for long-term sustainable hunting that provides values in the form of game meat, contact with nature and outdoor life.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-32	Madam President, I would like I think it's fun and good that we have strong strains of different game species in our country. But I can also note that these large tribes sometimes create problems – sometimes for people, sometimes for industries and activities, and too often for us who are in the traffic environment. A clear example of this is the explosion of wild boar in our country. Then a well-functioning and well-organised game management is a necessity. On the whole, I actually think that we have it in our country, and we should take care of the organisation that we have and develop it. It is not only the wild boars that are often talked about in this House that can pose problems in traffic for people and problems for businesses, such as agriculture and forestry. You can also mention the crown game and the moose in this context. Then I think it is on the verge of rude that the government does not come back with a proposal on how we can address these problems. The government made it very easy, in my opinion, when it presented a proposal in 2016 that allowed a total ban on feeding our game strains. This proposal, which the House, as we know, subsequently rejected, took absolutely no account of the fact that some feeding may actually be an important tool for reducing the damage suffered by people and activities and that, moreover, support feeding may be a necessity for the survival of a deer strain during the winter months. I therefore believe that the government should urgently come back with a new proposal that limits the damage that strong game strains can bring, so that the damage can be limited for people, for agriculture and for forestry, but also to limit any damage that occurs in the traffic environment. Madam President, I would like It is also appropriate that the government now, after five years, makes an evaluation of the elk management that I think works well overall. In fact, it is customary, after a period of time, to carry out an evaluation of regulations and legislation introduced in our country. One thing I think it is very important to look at is the cost development of the administration that is in place. In fact, one of the intentions of the administration was that costs should be kept down. It can be noted that in some counties costs have not been kept down, but instead increased. I think it is strange, Madam President, given everything – and I mean, with emphasis, everything – the non-profit work that goes into care areas in moose management areas. For these reasons, Madam President, I would therefore like to endorse reservations 1 and 5.
i-W4ExyoupqbwTEX6keHME62	Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservations 2 and 3. The wild boar strain is growing extremely rapidly in Sweden. The problems are now so big and costly for society that we politicians cannot stand with our hands in our pockets and say: What can we do about the problem? It takes a lot of grip to reduce the wild boar strain. Some 110,000 wild boars are shot. It's a lot of pigs, but it's still not enough. I hosted a seminar last year, and there was a problem. The expert who participated agreed that an almost twice as large a shift is needed to achieve some sort of balance on this problem. The costs are soaring, and there are calculations showing that the costs to farmers now exceed 1 billion. During my visit to the field of some farmers in Finspång, Östergötland, they told me how immensely difficult it is to protect crops from destruction. We visited fields that were completely destroyed, and in the meadows and in the pastures we saw that the stones were completely veiled. When I was in Aneby last Monday, the farmers there told me that they expect wild boars to destroy for about SEK 600 per hectare each year. So these are enormous costs. Wherever I visit farms and farmers you say the same thing: Do something now! If we also count on all traffic accidents and destroyed gardens, we may understand the scope. We really need to do something about this great concern quickly. Madam President, I would like Is there anything we can do? Yes, we certainly can, and we have to do it. We in the Christian Democrats believe that all obstacles to more wild boar being pushed must be removed. Our absolute best friends in this fight are the hunters. Among other things, we want it to be easier to use camera at baits. It must also be easier to use night vision and silencers. We also believe that once the boar is shot, it must be easier to sell the meat in different markets, to restaurants and shops, etc. We also believe that the government should offer the Trichinella test. It is an important signal that the cost will be reduced for the individual hunter. We also think that the proposal made by the LRF to condition feeding is a step towards stopping the worst feeding. It is very positive that the hunting teams in different parts of Sweden are helping each other to reduce the wild boar strain. I think it's amazing to see how they help out and that a larger number of wild boars are then shot. I would like to say a big thank you to all the hunters who spend their time and effort helping each other. A major problem that has arisen and which is very worrying for the hunters concerns the hunters. They are truly heroes, perhaps going out at night to try to find a run - over animal, and they are now being hunted by wrongdoers. This is very serious, and something must be done to protect these hunters. It is important that they receive the same protection as the police. This Parliament made an important decision before the summer, namely the food strategy. It talks about increasing Swedish food production, increasing self-sufficiency and so on. As it is now, my friends, it is impossible to achieve the objectives of the food strategy. We need to take a concerted approach to change.
i-FREEk1GwSUcdTSUTs9BzSd	Madam President, I would like We are debating today's report MjU8 Hunting and game conservation. I support the committee's proposal as a whole. The report deals with the feeding of cloven-hoofed game, the means of hunting, the responsibility for the general mission and certain other hunting issues. Hunting is taking place in rural areas, and we Social Democrats are making and have made huge investments in rural areas. We have here in Parliament decided on a food strategy where the overall goal is to increase our production of food, and game meat is a food. For example, the government is adding extra money to game-handling facilities, and what we can see is that the number of active establishments is actually increasing. We also want to increase the demand for wild game meat. There is also a need for more opportunities for the marketing of wild game meat. Wild game management should aim to increase the supply of wild game food in both restaurants and farm shops, within the framework of sustainable management of domestic production and exports. The Rural Development Programme allocates 6 million to pilot and collaborative projects that promote Swedish game as a local food resource and also strengthen the game chain from nature to consumer. The Finnish Food Safety Authority shall also review the system of fees for controls for slaughterhouses and game handling establishments. The Social Democratic-led government wanted to regulate the feeding of game and put forward a proposal in the bill Wild boar and game damage. The reason was that wild game causes great damage in agriculture and forestry and that a proposal for a ban was requested. However, only a year ago the Parliament rejected the proposal, on the grounds that it was not good to have a general ban and that the proposal was too far-reaching and was in danger of creating problems for large parts of wildlife conservation. It was only wrong and excessive feeding of cloven-hoofed game that should be regulated. I think everyone can understand that it is perhaps not the easiest thing to define what is wrong and excessive feeding. What is excessive feeding, and what is wrong feeding? Yeah, when you drive a truckload of beets out into the woods, I think it's excessive feeding. But if I drive out a silage ball with peas when it is very snow and cold for a long time, is it wrong or excessive? What do you think? Sometimes you make it easy by saying it's too little or too late- or, as in this case, too much. Madam President, I would like What I can see is that wild boars are causing great damage to our farmers, and that is why the government put forward a proposal to ban feeding. But it wasn't that absolute ban. Today, no authority has the authority to decide on a ban, which is a pity for Sweden's farmers and forest owners. At home in my area – Älmhult, Eneryda and Föshult, the village where I live – it is a big problem with wild boar injuries in some places. Wild boar is also a very hard hunted game. At home we expect to spend about 20 man-hours on a precipitated boar. I find it very difficult to see that special hunting agents such as facilitating the use of mobile lighting and night vision would solve the problem of wild boar. We must also use this today. In my hunting acquaintances I have never heard that there is a problem; none of my hunting buddies have ever brought it up. What's going to be done to reduce the strain is more man-hours and that we become better at hunting the game. Kronoberg County is a good example of this – where we reduced the wild boar strain by more hunting. The general mission, which the Hunters' Union has and has had since 1938, is important. You get money from the Wildlife Fund paid by the hunters. The Hunters' Association is also doing a very important volunteer work in the mission it has received from the government. On this issue, the EU also has its views. There is a review of whether we need to procure the mission or continue as we do today. It is a very high priority. We don't think you should procure. This would have a major impact on Swedish policy, including in other policy areas. The Social Democrats want to strengthen the Swedish model through the non-profit sector, just as we do with outdoor life and study associations. Here the construction with hunting cards has a special position, because the hunters pay themselves through the hunting card. Madam President, I would like The government has also improved the possibility of providing financial support for measures to prevent and compensate damage to agriculture. We have increased the aid from 37 million to 52 million. It will also be easier to get support. At the same time, the Hunters' Association has been tasked with continuing to discourage the feeding of cloven-hoofed game and to develop a long-term model for limiting cloven-hoofed game injuries. In the investigation on camera surveillance, the investigation proposes that there should be no authorisation or notification requirement for camera surveillance in agriculture or forestry or game, for example in the case of baits. The reason for this is that it will be easier, and that is good. The government reviews the cross-country driving law, where it wants a general permit for off-road driving for people with functional variations in hunting. The government is also preparing a proposal to remove the requirement for a licence for silencers on hunting weapons, which will make it easier for hunters who come from other countries where they do not have a licence. I cannot help commenting on Moderate Cecilia Widegren's motion, which states that the elk hunting premiere should be moved from a Monday to a Saturday, so that the moose hunters can complete the work line. There may be a reason to move the elk hunting premiere, but it should not be done to complete the work line. I assume that the Moderates like freedom of choice, and then they should think it's good to choose when the moose hunt begins. If anyone wants to spend their holiday days on moose hunting, I think it's okay. If I have understood correctly, we are in complete agreement here in Parliament that we should have a regional elk administration in which they decide at regional level. The Moderates of MJU also want local and regional influence to increase. You can think about whether the Moderates really are on pace. If hunters want to start on a Saturday rather than on a Monday, this is quite possible – they decide for themselves. The current government has also arranged for the licensing of predators. Today, regional decisions are taken early so that the legal process can be completed before the hunt begins. This has proved to be a good thing – we have a functioning licence hunt today. In the last three years, 83 wolves have been shot. A number of wolves have also been shot after a protective hunt has been decided. During the time of the Alliance, three wolves were shot in the same period of time. Then, of course, we will always have a discussion about the number to be postponed on license, how many there are and how many we should have. The government has also made a decision to change the mountain hunting. The hunt will primarily be opened to hunters living in Sweden. So a lot has happened in the area of hunting and game conservation. But, as I said, there is much more to be done, and at least we seem to agree on this.
i-KpUbxtvdfhtSHFc3R6ojrd	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Monica Haider, for the post! We can begin with the question of whether it is the Moderates or the Social Democrats who are moving in step. I can recite some of the motions in this report that come from Socialist Members but which the Social Democrats have rejected. As for who is on pace or not, during the general exercise period people write motions and try to influence, and then it is up to the committees to evaluate this and move on. It is public order here in Parliament, and it is no wonder in itself. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Monica Haider: when will the new proposal on wild nutrition come? We have been clear from Parliament and from the committee that we want a new proposal, but the Ministry of Industry's preliminary assessment is that the proposal cannot be implemented. When are you going to come up with a new proposal? Will it be before the elections, or will you skip this and hand it over to the new alliance government? It could be a good thing to get answers. Another question to which I would like answers relates to the general mission. Just as Monica Haider said, Madam President, the hunters' money is used. It was very quick to look at how this could be distributed in a different way. What new organizations does Monica Haider think should receive the hunters' money? There must be a purpose in the mission to review this. Which new organizations is Monica Haider expecting to use the hunters' money? My last question concerns the evaluation of the game missions and the elk administration – why can't it be carried out after five years of applying this decision?
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-79	Madam President, I would like That's a lot of questions. As Sten Bergheden says, we have the order to reject most of the motions in reports, no matter who they come from. As for the general mission and who would receive money, this is being prepared in the Government Office. Today we do not have any proposals for more people who would receive money. Today it is probably the Nature Conservation Association, which receives 400 000, so it is not about any big money. The hunters' union receives most of the money the hunters pay in – I think they receive 52 million in the general mission. There has already been an evaluation of the moose administration, and Sten Bergheden and the rest of the colleagues here in Parliament know that. I do not know if such a thing is currently being prepared in the Government Office.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-84	Madam President, I would like It was very quick to decide to increase the number of places in the game delegations – it was done without any kind of analysis or thought-out action. More power was transferred from landowners and hunters to organisations and other interests in the game missions. This evaluation and this effort took place very quickly. To review the overall functioning of elk management and game missions is not interested in, but to transfer power and influence to others than hunters and landowners is this government very fast with. As far as the general mission is concerned, it is clear that it is a concession to the Green Party, just as I said at the outset. You had to look at whether there were other organisations to enter and take some of the hunters' money into their businesses. This was a concession for you to remain in power. It is irresponsible to use the hunters' money to ensure that you can remain in government and appease the Green Party on these issues. I think this is an irresponsible way of dealing with the hunters' money. Monica Haider is obviously trying to slip away from this issue as much as possible, because it is embarrassing that a government behaves in this way. I also have to ask one last question, because I did not get all the answers. The number in the Swedish wolf tribe is over 400, which affects our game strain. We have made a decision in Parliament of 170 – 270 wolves. Does Monica Haider think that we have too little wolf in Sweden or that we should follow Parliament's decision of 170 – 270 wolves? Should we follow the decision that has been made, or should we have a greater wolf tribe than we have decided on?
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-91	Madam President, I would like I think it is remarkable for Sten Bergheden to say in the speaker's chair that it is irresponsible for us to use the hunters' money to other organisations. There is no such proposal. I don't know what he's talking about. None of the people he refers to other than the Nature Conservation Association get any money. I think that's pretty cool. Sten Bergheden also brought up the wolf. The parliamentary decision of 170 to 270 wolves concerned a reference value. I believe that the conservation status of wolf is favourable today, and that is why we can have a licence hunt. Sten Bergheden knows, as I do, that the hunt for wolves is not uncontroversial either here in Sweden or in the EU. We have very many outstanding questions from the European Union in this. The general mission is also an EU issue. Actually, they're the ones who're messing with us. So this is not just from the government. For the rest, Sten Bergheden knows that one cooperates and compromises in a government. You were four parties, which was quite noticeable in politics. There was little progress in this policy area, because you too had to compromise.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-94	Madam President, I would like I agree with a lot of what Monica Haider has said and also in the past. It is no problem to settle these issues with Social Democrats who know the questions. The problem for the Social Democrats is the company they have in the government. Let me turn to my questions. How much extra money has the current government spent on game handling facilities? Who introduced the aid for the construction of game-handling facilities to their current level? I would like an answer to that. I would also like to make a statement in this line-up. The Government proposal on feeding allowed for a total ban on feeding. This does not mention Monica Haider. I am strongly opposed to this because it is a restriction of property rights in our country, a right which I hold dear. It refrains from making a proposal that Parliament can accept. Such a proposal could, for example, mean that things that are not common in the area where feeding takes place may not be fed. That would make feeding with sugar beet impossible in your home country and in my home country. It is very easy to introduce such a provision if there is a will, but it does seem to be lacking.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-98	Madam President, I would like In my speech I tried to describe the issue of the ban on feeding, Eskil. This is not simply the case, and so the government put forward a proposal for a feed ban to which an exemption could then be requested. This was largely due to law; it was difficult to define the whole thing. This is what I said in my speech. In your proposal, you are writing about excessive feeding. It is very difficult to define it legally, which is why we tabled the proposal that we made. It seems that the opposition – the Alliance – has a different view on the matter. This was a problem even during your time, and one might wonder why you did not put forward a proposal regarding the ban on feeding. The question is not new. If I remember correctly, Eskil, I think we are spending 15 million extra on wildlife management facilities. But I give you the confession that it was you who introduced them. On these issues, we are quite in agreement. Of course, we think that the Alliance government did good things-- if you think we're doing good things. We also like our company in the government. We like each other.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-102	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Monica, for the confession that has been made here! I note that there is no ambition of the current government to do anything in the field of feeding, which is sad. It is sad for all of us who are now and then in traffic, and it is sad for those who are engaged in agriculture and forestry. It is also sad for people who sometimes have concerns about the different kinds of game strains being too strong. Let me turn to my third question. Why are the costs of the moose administration not being reviewed? They have risen quite sharply in some areas. It has been said to me that it has sometimes led to refraining from decimating the elk calf strain because the cost is relatively high in relation to the exchange that can be obtained from it.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-105	Madam President, I would like I actually think it's kind of fun that Eskil wants us to investigate the costs of the moose administration. I thought we were in agreement here in Parliament and liked that the administration was regional and that the regional actors should decide on this. That's how it works today. It is the Wildlife Management Delegations that decide on the fine and the size of the budget. At least we do that in Kronoberg County. I did not think you wanted us to have more central governance, but this would be decided locally and regionally. This is a little bit of fun. It is, moreover, very sad, Mr Eskil, that you rejected the part of the proposal that concerns the ban on feeding. Now the whole Alliance is holding back the fact that farmers have problems with injuries. In fact, it was you who rejected the proposal, not us. We made a proposal, which you did not do during your time in government.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-108	Madam President, I would like A major problem today, Monica Haider, is the current organisational requirements for environmental organisations' rights of appeal. Today, there are only 100 members of an association required for it to have the right of appeal against an official decision. Today, not only the Swedish Wildlife Society and the Swedish Wildlife Association can appeal, but also small organisations such as Nordulv and Wolf Association Sweden. Even Facebook groups have had to appeal without having an organisation number, which is otherwise prescribed that you must have to be considered an association. This is strange. This is all happening while the wolf is increasing the problems of the local population in the countryside. Do you think that organisations that don't have the slightest foundation in a district should be allowed to appeal just because they call themselves an association because it is often really questionable if they are an association? Should you be allowed to appeal when you are a hundred miles away from the place where the hunt is to be conducted? We think this is strange. You're on your knees on the Green Party, so you're in a very difficult position in government. But what do you think? Should government decisions be delayed and prevented by so-called association without a business report or company registration number – in some cases with fictitious member lists, as has been revealed – in Stockholm or a hundred miles from the district where hunting is to be conducted? Is it possible to delay, prevent and block government decisions in this way? We think that the organisational requirements that exist are a major problem. Shouldn't they change? I would like an answer to that.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-113	Madam President, I would like I think we've got it sorted out for the license hunt for predators. Today, decisions are taken in good time so that the legal process is completed before it is time to start hunting. I think it has been decided this year that 22 wolves may be shot in the licence hunt. The appeal proceedings will be completed before the hunt begins. I think this is a good order. I think that all of us who sit here in Parliament should comply with the laws, rules and conventions to which Sweden is committed. Among other things, the Aarhus Convention governs this. It is not we in Sweden who are in charge of this ourselves. I think we should comply with the convention.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-115	Madam President, I would like I thank Monica Haider for her reply. Yes, 22 wolves were to be shot, it was decided. This may seem to be disappearing a little, given that in some areas, such as Värmland, there is an enormous amount of wolf. 22 wolves – in Värmland you think it might have had to be almost double just in Värmland, because there is a lot of wolf there. Of these 22 wolves, 6 are to be shot in Värmland. It's very cheap. Why does the government want to jeopardise the general mission of the Hunter League since 1938? Who can that mission and the parts of hunting and game conservation that it affects better than the Hunters' Association and the associated hunters? There are none that could match the job they do and the knowledge and experience they have. I wonder how that could happen. Your friends in the Green Party even want the mission to be procured publicly, even though the money to the Hunters' Association is not tax money but money from the Wildlife Fund, which is financed by the hunters themselves through the hunting card fees. You are now saying that you do not want to procure, but why were you in favour of a review? What's not good? I know it was the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates who voted against the review in this House last year. Does the Green Party really govern the government's hunting and game policy? I'd like to know. I may not get an answer, but it's a question.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-118	Madam President, I would like No, we don't want to jeopardize the general mission. We think the general mission is good. Then there are reasons for us to review it. I explained this in my main speech. The number of wolves you have to shoot is determined by the regional administration, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and so on. We have an order for this. However, if the hunt for predators had been orderly last term, it would not have been three years when only three wolves were shot. This also determines how many wolves we have today. But what we can see is that we have a favourable conservation status for wolves and a functioning hunting licence on wolves. I'm quite pleased with that. Then we will always discuss the number, as I said in my main speech. We do not agree on this, and I do not think we will get any further on this, Mr Runar.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-120	Madam President, I would like I thank the committee for the debate. We are here to debate the report on hunting and game conservation. I support the proposal in the report. As usual, this is a subject that engages the committee, and the debate is high. In today's report we find, among other things, motions on feeding cloven-hoofed game. We have already talked about this quite a lot. But it is remarkable: last year, the government produced a bill in which we looked at how to deal with the problem. Most people seemed to think this was a very good thing. There were many LRF visits, for example, where there were positive comments. Unfortunately, the alliance parties fell under the pressure of the landowners and dropped the proposal at the end. As Monica Haider said, it was thought that it should be changed and that it was about wrong or excessive feeding. How it was to be formulated was difficult to see. You still have the problems. There is a healthy exercise about having to deal with this. Some people want stricter rules, others don't. It's hard to really know what you want. What can be said is that the government has not stood still on this matter. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency was commissioned to investigate and review the feeding and how it should be done. It was found that something that many argue is a good thing, diverting support feed, does not seem to work. However, it is seen that feeding often leads to unexpected and unwanted effects. Direct effects are shown: where there is feeding, there is a high concentration of cloven-hoofed game around feeding stations, which is quite obvious. More young animals survive. Of course, you also get an increased load capacity in the ground. So you can keep more wild than the ground without feeding. Then you also see an increased grazing of vegetation nearby. There is also a high concentration of other game, omnivores drawn to feeding places, which also leads, for example, to easier transmission of infection. This is not good. We need to get rid of the feeding. I regret that the bill put on Parliament's table did not go through. But I promise the government will do what it can to overcome this. We have to regulate it. We can't have what it is today. It cannot be that what benefits one side, in this case usually moose hunting, is bad for agriculture and forestry. We must live side by side and have as much wild as the ground can stand. In addition to exercise on feeding, there are exercises on moving lighting, night vision, the general mission, which has already been in the debate here, hunting times, prices for hunting cards, follow-up catches and a little more. Most of it is about making hunting easier and cheaper. As has also been noted, there is a motion to move the elk hunting premiere to a Saturday to facilitate the work line. But it is not so that the game exists for us 2.7 percent that defines us as hunters in Swedish society. We cannot adapt nature to fit our calendars. Nature and game belong to all of us. The game is someone's only when it's down. The basis of Swedish hunting legislation is that the game is protected, as it says in Section 3 of the Hunting Act. It may be hunted with special exceptions. It's about the same as with the bill on wild feeding, if you remember. The same law provides for the care of the game in order to preserve the species of game belonging to the country's wild game population and the species of birds naturally present in the country for certain parts of the year or for the whole year. The government may make regulations regarding the different times when different wild game may be hunted. You might need a license hunt. Hunting may be needed to regulate damage or if we receive, for example, species that do not belong to the Swedish fauna, which in turn can cause damage. Hunting times and planning of our hunting in Sweden are about good management. It is important not to disturb the game when it has young and to ensure reproduction, so that we have good, strong and viable strains. It's not about making it comfortable for hunters, although I myself may find it quite nice to have a fire on the pass. Thus, the laws should not be reviewed. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's Strategy for Swedish Wildlife Management states that the administration should be adaptive. So it's supposed to be learning. We are constantly gaining new knowledge, and it will be implemented in the game management. For example, hunting times could be a good idea to review. This has not happened in 18 years, but a lot has happened in 18 years. We have even got a warmer climate in Sweden, which means that oestrous times and breeding times have changed. Knowledge of species biology has improved. The game damage has increased in some places. Some populations have drawn away and become larger. When you look at what the hunt should look like, you should learn from what it looks like and bring in new knowledge. Hunting and hunting times should be based on the current knowledge we have about species biology, stock development and the development of wildlife damage, not on when humans can take vacations. Overall, the Green Party believes that game conservation and hunting must be seen from an ecosystem perspective and that we should manage it and our game together. We also prefer to see multi-stakeholder management rather than one-kind management at a time. Species interact with each other and interact with each other. We need an administration that takes into account all animals, including predators. We have already talked about elk management in this House. It is not true that there has not been a review. The new rules were reviewed in 2015. The regulation letter to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency states that the comments received will be followed up in 2018. So what is being said in this House is not true. There's a change. I hope, however, that we will go even further and in some places have a cloven-hoofed game management and then come to a multi-stakeholder administration. We need to see the whole picture and talk about game farming and wild areas. It shall be an ecosystem-based game management that takes into account soil viability, the species present there and how they interact with each other. An administration that goes along with today's knowledge creates acceptance and harmonises with society. I think that's the key to a modern hunt.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-134	Madam President, I would like However, since it is the Green Party that governs these issues in the government, I expect to receive clear and clear answers here from Emma Nohrén, the representative of the Green Party. The first question is: what do you want to change in the general mission as you set up the review? What's the purpose of that whole piece? There must be a reason why this work should be started. It tries to blame the EU. We know that you in the Green Party pushed this issue hard. There are many of your representatives who have been out on this issue and want to see a review of the general mission. Why? You must have a simple and clear message to the country's hunters why you think it needs to be reviewed. The second question is even simpler. When will the feeding proposal that the Alliance discussed come up with when you came up with your second proposal that we could not accept? When is this proposal coming? Some form of active activity must nevertheless take place at the Government Office to work on the issue, and then you should have a timetable for when the new proposal will come. Instead, perhaps I can get answers from Emma Nohrén when I did not receive it earlier from the representative of the Social Democrats. The third question concerns the wolf. We have a decision of 170 – 270 wolves. Today it is over 400, and I have heard representatives of various parties say how many wolves there might be to be shot in Värmland. Does the Green Party think that we have too few or too many wolves in Sweden today? Is the level reasonable? Or should we try to follow the benchmark that Parliament tried to set a few years ago? I would like to start with the three questions to Emma Nohrén. I hope for clear answers to the country's hunters.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-139	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions, Sten Bergheden! I'll try to respond to the short time we have. First of all, I would like to say that you are always speaking for Sweden's hunters. I'm a hunter myself, and you don't really speak for me. We have different views on a lot of this. When it comes to the general mission, the EU looks at the matter and has said that we probably need to change the structure of what it looks like. Then it is true that the Green Party thinks that it might have looked different. This has been done for the most part to the Swedish Hunter Association. We can't tell you how we want it to go out. However, an investigation that follows current legislation in the EU must be the basic level. We cannot have a special system here that allows us to have infringement cases in the European Union. The second question was about wolves. The bill adopted on predatory policy stated that the tribe should achieve favourable conservation status. What the favourable conservation status looks like depends on how many wolves immigrants and what the population looks like. There is talk here of a reference value of 170 – 270 wolves. There's no ceiling in it. It's about what we need in a buffer in order to have a strain. It is also a question of having immigrant wolves to do this. I'll stay there. You'll have to repeat the last question.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-143	Madam President, I would like I'll start by reminding you of it. When is the feeding proposal coming? Emma Nohrén can take note of that and provide an answer. I assume that there is some kind of activity in the Government Office on this issue. I asked about the decision of 170 - 270 wolves. The answer here is that we can have almost as many as we like. My question was: Do you think it is reasonable that today there are over 400 wolves when Parliament has said that a reasonable level might need to be 170 – 270, Emma Nohrén? Do you think the countryside should tolerate 400? The spirit of your answer is that we can have even more if needed. Is it a reasonable level to set the goal that a favourable conservation status can mean in principle as much as any wolf in Sweden? That's implied. What is the maximum limit for what the countryside should really tolerate when it comes to wolf? I asked for a review of the mission. There was a spirit when you started the investigation, but you have no idea what it's supposed to be like. Why do you start an investigation and a review but have no idea what you really want to achieve? It's a bit like shooting from the hip in these contexts to have no idea when you start it. You hand it over, and it can land anywhere. It seems to be a little ill thought out if there was no idea. There was no purpose on the part of the Green Party when you started it.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-147	Madam President, I would like When it comes to feeding, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has been working on it. We hope that we can implement rules and get a sustainable proposal. The best thing would have been if the bill that was worked through and also worked legally had gone through. But it's been dropped, and now you get to round it. The proposal made by the alliance parties for improper or unauthorised feeding cannot be implemented in this way. Then we'll have to try to fix the situation. The cleared way forward was voted down, and then you have to round it as best you can. We need to get things right; that's the way it is. As far as wolf is concerned, we shall achieve favourable conservation status. That has been decided by the House. We have different investigations. After the decision was taken, new facts have emerged that we may have to have a minimum of 300 wolves. If we are to have a minimum level, we must have more to cover if, for example, puppy sickness or something else strikes. We must also have genetically healthy wolves as immigrants in order to have a favourable conservation status. There's not the wolf tribe today. We cannot say that we should have 170 wolves because that is what the countryside can tolerate. We must have a favourable conservation status in an animal species, just as our laws and regulations state that we should have.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-150	Madam President, I would like I wanted to ask Emma Nohrén a question about a problem which I tried to raise during my speech. There are many who are hunters who feel threatened. We all know that animal rights activists are now destroying for some hunters. The hunters are simply being hunted. We know the hunters are heroes. They are the ones who pick up when, for example, I hit a wild boar, or vice versa: The wild boar hit me, it felt like. Or it could be some other animal. They go out at night with the dog. Then they're gonna do the amazing job they're doing to see if the game is so bad that it has to be shot. Here we see that the hunters are being hunted. The same is true of hunters in Värmland, for example, who hunt for protection on wolves. The hunters are no longer afraid because they are hunted by animal rights activists. My question to you is what do you think you should do? What is there that you see that you could do to prevent it?
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-153	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. The short answer is that if illegal things are happening, of course, you should call the police. It is unacceptable for people to violate regulations and do things in this way. I totally agree that our hunters are amazing. They are out in the rain and in all weather, and they have dogs that can do this. I have two dogs myself that I practice search with. I know how many training hours it takes and what it takes to keep them in order, and then maybe get woken up at 2 a.m. and run out and get ready to take care of the traffic damage wild. We should be proud of the arrangements for wild traffic injuries with hunters in Sweden. Few countries have such a system. This system is good both for the sake of what has happened and, above all, for the sake of game. We don't want injured animals out there. The hunters are doing an incredibly good job there, and we are absolutely going to protect that. I find it hard to see that this could be handled differently. With regard to those who behave badly against legal hunting, I would say that if it is criminal, it is criminal. We cannot do much about that; it is about explaining and so on. It is not possible to defend the fact that someone is committing criminal acts.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-157	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Emma Nohrén, for your answer! One suggestion that has come up is that you should be able to give the same protection as a police officer or security guard has to the hunters because it could be a threat to a civil servant. Something could be done here. It is therefore a proposal that has been put forward, and I think it is something that the government should take on board and do something about. This is a huge and serious concern, which I think we need to address. We've talked a lot about boars. There has been some of the common thread in the debate so far. We agree that this is a concern; we have heard that. I think it is good that we agree that this is a concern. Because it's a big worry, not a big deal about it. It costs huge sums for the whole of our country. We have agreed both from the Alliance and from the government that we see a little differently how the management has become. However, I have a question and an appeal to the government and to Emma that you are indeed now making a proposal so that we can come to a conclusion on this issue and move forward. My question is: will we see a proposal before the summer?
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-160	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions. As far as further protection for hunters is concerned, this is the first time I have heard this. I'm not a team expert, but it sounds a little strange to be able to provide such protection. We'll have to talk about that another time when we have the question on the table or hand it over to the Justice Department. As far as the feeding or feeding of wild game is concerned, as I have said, there was one way to go about this so that it was a rigorous and good proposal. It was on Parliament's table, but it was voted down. After that, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has taken care of it. Probably we will see small changes in regulations, but I cannot say when, where and how they come. But it works on it – absolutely.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-162	Madam President, I would like Hunting can fulfil several important social functions, such as maintaining biodiversity. That hunting can have a game management task, we have talked about here before. Hunting can ensure that some populations do not grow too large at the expense of others. Hunting can also contribute to great natural experiences, community, excitement, etc. The hunt in Sweden is not conducted by a small upper class, but it is almost 300 000 people who hunt in Sweden. Hunting is therefore an important issue, and it is good that we have the opportunity to discuss it here today. However, the hunt conducted in Sweden is also large-scale in such a way that there are very many animals that are killed each year. More than 1 million animals are shot every year in hunting in Sweden: about 200 000 deer, almost 100 000 elk, 25 000 hares and hundreds of thousands of birds. It is no wonder that there may be some conflict of interest in the forest between hunters and those who, for example, want to be out picking berries, taking a walk with the dog or jogging and who may not find it so pleasant that there are groups that are heavily armed and are out hunting animals. You're afraid they're gonna hit the wrong one with their shots. There may be conflicts of interest between, on the one hand, those who want viable predator strains – which is something we are actually behind in all the parties in this House – and, on the other hand, hunters who want to keep predators down. Then it is important that we have a hunt that is conducted properly and that we have ecosystem-based predator management. It is also important that hunting is conducted in an open and democratic manner. I would say that is the background to the general mission, where the money from the hunting license goes to a state wildlife conservation fund from which funds are distributed to organisations and also to authorities that are active precisely in the field of game conservation. From my point of view, it is perfectly reasonable for environmental organisations to be able to benefit more from the funding from the Wildlife Fund. Today, hunters' organisations receive more than 100 times as much money from the Wildlife Fund as the Wildlife Protection Society receives. I think that the debate that has taken place here in the past seems a little disproportionate in this perspective. It is also important that the hunt is organised in such a way that the illegal hunt must be fought vigorously. It may be that the main reason why wolves die in Sweden is precisely the illegal hunt. At least we know that we are dealing with dozens of wolves who are convicted every year because of illegal hunting. We know that, according to estimates, every ten eagles have hail in their bodies when they are discovered. We also know that the judicial system is rather the case in the face of the illegal hunt. I would say that this is a crime that is not a priority of the judiciary. This has to change. It cannot be that we only have barely one conviction per year for serious hunting crimes in Sweden when we know that this is a business that is much more extensive than that. However, in order to combat illegal hunting, I believe more in preventive and preventive work, namely that we must have more people out in the forests. For example, we must have more nature guardians, hunting supervisors and hunting supervision women who are out in our forests and ensure that things are right. Several counties in Sweden do not even have a single hunting supervisor. There are simply dark fields on the map. This cannot be reasonable. There are also a few other varieties that we need to deal with. I think of such a thing as the hunting of goods. What is the social benefit of raising hundreds of thousands of ducks, pheasants and other birds just so that directors and other wealthy people can get there and shoot at them? No, this is a hunting form that we should be able to ban here and now. I also think that we should be able to regulate or ban lead hail much more clearly, which spreads in nature and causes great damage. This also applies to pot hunting, which is a stressful hunting form. Bow hunting should not be allowed, nor should trapping, for example, foxes and badgers. Madam President, I would like In other words, if the hunt is to be conducted in exactly the way we want it to be, we need to deal with a lot of things. With this in mind, I would like to call for the committee's proposal in its entirety and for the reservations to be rejected.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-174	Madam President, I would like I want to ask you a question, Jens Holm. You brought up how many moose, how many deer and how many hares are shot. On the other hand, you missed the boars. But it's 110,000. Do you think it is a concern that there are so many animals being shot in Sweden? I would also like to ask you about animal rights activists who hunt hunters, which I also asked Emma Nohrén about. I mean, hunters are heroes. They try to find animals that have been injured, for example by cars. These hunters feel chased by animal rights activists. This also applies to hunters, in Värmland, for example, who engage in protective hunting and will shoot wolves. They are no longer afraid because they are being hunted by animal rights activists. What do you think of that?
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-176	Madam President, I would like I agree that the boar population in Sweden is far too large, and it is a big problem as it looks now. Hunting is one way to keep the population down. But large-scale feeding of wild boar, for example, is not a good idea. However, there are some other species that I think are under pressure. And on our predators, not least the wolf, I don't think there should be any license hunt at all. So you get to look at the species by species, if that's what you want, Magnus Oscarsson. My point with the list of animals killed in hunting in Sweden is to show that it is a large-scale operation, and on large-scale operations we have every right to make demands. Just as Emma Nohrén said in her speech earlier, it is worth remembering that according to the hunting law everything is wildly protected. That's the point of departure. It must therefore be handled with greater care than it is today. With regard to conflicts between hunters and hunters, I am the first to regret that this is happening. But I would like a little more balance from Oscarsson's side. There are abuses and wrong actions on both sides. But you can't stop people from being out in the woods. That is everyone's right; we have every man's right. Therefore, a great responsibility rests on the hunters to pursue the right hunting.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-181	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Jens Holm! You used to pick up the hunt and the hunters and say it was no longer a rich man's hunt or anything like that. That's interesting. Hunting is a popular movement. We are talking about hundreds of thousands of hunters, who are doing a fantastic job of keeping down the size of the tribes. I'm talking about elk as well as deer and wild boar and more. This is important because these animals cause enormous damage, for example in traffic. If we didn't keep the tribes down, there would be even more accidents. We who live outside Stockholm, Jens Holm, know how worrying it can be. We know the damage and the costs. So it is important that we work with our hunters and actually see them as the best friends. They're the ones who keep this in check. It is interesting that you are not quite clear precisely about animal rights activists and their misery. We have to make something up. It is important to send a message to the government – it was given to Emma before – that something must be done to protect the hunters, so that they do not stop. It would be a disaster for us if they were to say: Our cars are being smashed, and we are being threatened in different ways. ..................................................... Here, together, politically, we must take a firm stand and say: that is enough. We need to get a law in place to protect the hunters who help us.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-186	Madam President, I would like I don't quite understand that, but we'll have to take it in another debate, Magnus Oscarsson. So we're going to have a separate law to protect hunters? I am the first to agree that every time any kind of attack occurs, whether it is against hunters or other people who are out in the woods, it is totally reprehensible. It is good if it is prosecuted and it leads to conviction. But having separate laws for certain categories of hunters seems a little strange to say the least. We should remember that there are many of us who will live on this surface that we call Sweden. We are 10 million people, but we are talking about hundreds of thousands of animals, millions if we count birds and fish etc. We cannot always rely solely on human interests. Sometimes we may have to build infrastructure taking into account the wild animals that exist. Sometimes we may not have to build infrastructure, because we take into account the fact that there are wild animals in the forest. Maybe the forest should stay there instead. There are a number of such conflicts of interest. That is what I was trying to illustrate in my brief speech. Sometimes it sounds like all Swedes are hunters. But that's not the way it is. After all, hunters are a minority in Sweden. The hunt must therefore be conducted in a responsible manner, and transparency and democratic anchoring of the hunt are important. I think there is more to be done about that.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-191	Madam President, I would like This report deals with a rather limited selection of issues relating to hunting and game conservation. But it is gratifying to see the involvement in the debate and that there are some hooks outside those very issues. I'd be happy to do it that way. The Liberals have no reservations in the report, but I still have some points of view and would like to explain some of the Liberals' starting points. Liberals want to be clear that we are protecting biodiversity and therefore viable game tribes. This is largely about knowledge-based management. And in game management, hunting is a natural part. There are clear conflicts of objectives between different stakeholders. And predator management, not least, has been up for discussion many times in this House. Liberals believe that it is vital to have a broad base, especially among residents in predatory areas. Just now, illegal hunting was discussed. We are convinced that dialogue and acceptance are good ways of preventing it. That is why we believe that protection hunting and selective licensing should be possible, in order to prevent unacceptable predatory damage to domestic animals, among other things. Then we Liberals also think that it is important that we live up to the European commitments we have to protect endangered animal strains, that is, much of what is in the Species and Habitats Directive. Now that issue has somehow been resolved, with the Commission saying that it does not intend to revise that part of the Nature Conservation Directive. Nevertheless, we would like to draw attention to what the Commission said, that it would make better use of national space. So there was such a space that the states had not used. In doing so, we need to look further at the management of predators. As far as possible, it should be at national and regional level. When it comes to hunting and hunters, it feels like someone stands up for the hunters, someone stands up for the animals and someone stands up for the hunt. This is a strange relationship. Of course, you have to move in step. There is no contradiction in this. I am not a hunter myself, but I understand that hunting can mean a great experience with both excitement and nature experience. We think you should encourage more people to become hunters. This applies especially to young and women, who are under-represented in the group of hunters. It would be good if there were a wider movement. Trade in game meat has been addressed. They want it to be sold as a consumer product. Here we have a resource in Sweden that we will take advantage of. I would say that this is quite a climate-smart meat. Then the regulatory framework should not prevent the meat from entering the market. It is also one of the obstacles to reaching the market that has been highlighted, that the desire to hunt and reduce the strain is becoming less. Then, on behalf of the Liberals, I would like to say that it is a good thing that there has been a legal process that apparently works. Of course we will have to follow this, but we can see that the licence hunt that is taking place has been carried out in due time. Madam President, I would like Then I would like to say a few words about the debate on the feeding of cloven-hoofed game, and that is also included in today's report. We have no reservation, but for us Liberals – and I hope for the government too – the announcement of autumn 2016 that a new proposal would come back with a new one does not mean a general ban still applies. Instead, it should be a more precise legislative proposal which allows the prohibition of feeding cloven-hoofed game when other solutions have proved impossible and it is possible to demonstrate significant damage. In the past, there was some doubt as to what the Alliance's proposal meant. Emma Nohrén also did not bring paper on what the proposal means. In addition, we also want the ban to be limited to one area and for a certain period of time. Nevertheless, I think it is a step forward. I would like to quote the Socialist Member from the parliamentary debate that we had in autumn 2016. He called this discussion stupid and ugly. I think we have moved a little further in the debate here today. I see – and I believe that the government is doing so too – it is positive that both voluntary and other measures are now being taken in this area that raise the issue further. It is, of course, about the Jägar eförbundet, which has a priority task of disseminating information about the consequences of feeding. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is also working on the issue. Now we are just waiting for the government's bill based on the announcement. After all, the report refers to further preparation. If that preparation does not mean that there is a bill, then you can wonder what you think about. What does that preparation mean? Is that just an empty word? For me and the Liberals, it feels like this has become a political game where you say that since you did not get through your bill in the Riksdag you should certainly not make any proposal at all. We can do that here, but that doesn't help. As a complement to the measures now being taken, it is important that there be legal regulation in this area.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-208	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 3 and 4. The Swedish democrats have more reservations in the report, but for time to come, I only call for approval of these two reservations. The Constitutional Committee is best known – at least in the media – for its review of the duties of the Ministers of State. Then the minister may be pricked and get a remark from the committee for his faults and faults. Although the review is the backbone of the Constitutional Committee, we also deal with other issues in addition to the review. Like other committees, we also have political issues on our table. One of these issues concerns public access, confidentiality and integrity, and these are the issues that we are going to debate today. Madam President, I would like It is usually the case that the first speaker also gives an account of the report as a whole and of the proposals which the committee has dealt with. In brief, the report deals with a number of motions, i.e. proposals from both parties and individual Members of Parliament. The concepts range from data collection on the internet, the Swedish Data Protection Authority's mission and digitalisation in the public sector to a review of the Public Access and Confidentiality Act. Today we are also doing something relatively unusual. We support, albeit in part, an independent motion by an individual Member of Parliament. In this case, it is a motion by Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell from the Christian Democrats that concerns the confidentiality of interpreters. In short, the committee's proposal means that the Parliament asks the government to review the rules of confidentiality for interpreters. The reason for this is, inter alia, that, unlike authorised interpreters in certain situations, unauthorised interpreters are not covered by the obligation of professional secrecy even though they carry out tasks of a similar nature. The Swedish Democrats have several reservations in the report. I shall then turn to explaining these reservations in turn. Our first reservation is about quality tools on websites. The reservation, which SD and KD have in common, means that we support the proposal to commission the Swedish Data Protection Authority to develop a quality tool for websites and internet services that takes personal privacy very seriously. There are examples of such services in other countries. Websites that meet certain criteria can through them get a special stamp on their website, which makes it visible to the user that there is a site that takes the privacy of users very seriously. For the Swedish Democrats, this is one of several ways to strengthen and protect the privacy of users online. We therefore believe that such a quality label would be desirable here in Sweden as well. The next reservation is about privacy breach regulations for SOS Alarm. Today's rules of confidentiality and order for emergency calls to SOS Alarm mean that the police are at risk of receiving information later than other rescue agents. This leads to unnecessary duplication of efforts and delays in police action, which in turn could lead to risky calls and difficult police work. It is therefore necessary, in our opinion, for the rules on confidentiality to be amended so that the police receive information on urgent matters while the other emergency services receive them. When a person today calls SOS Alarm to announce an emergency, the call follows a certain order. First, the operator asks a series of questions to find out what happened. They are written down and sent to emergency services and ambulances that are immediately sent to the site. The operator on SOS Alarm then connects the call to the County Communications Centre of the police. The police are then again asked a number of questions to the ringer to find out what has happened and note this in their system so that they can send police patrols there. For a shocked and stressed caller, this is often very confusing. The LKC operators often spend time explaining why they have to ask about the same questions that the caller has just answered. This delaying duplication of efforts leads to the police receiving information on the matter later than the other rescue operations, which gives the police an emergency delay. The negative thing in the order I have just described is obvious, but in short it is about unnecessarily long lead times, delayed calls, fewer saved lives and, by extension, fewer arrested perpetrators. The next reservation I want to talk about is public access to schools with individual principals. The provisions of the Public Access to Information and Secrecy Act do not currently apply to independent schooling, schoolchildren's care and pre-school activities. Free schools therefore do not have to disclose documents to the same extent as municipal schools even though they are publicly funded. Thus, municipal and independent schools do not operate under equal conditions. The same principles of public access to documents relating to the activity shall apply to all forms of school regardless of the principal. We therefore believe that the government should return to Parliament with a proposal that corrects this. Finally, Madam President, I would like to mention a reservation which we share with the Left Party and which aims to overcome the cheating on how private companies in some cases deal with state aid for employment. Over the past five years, more than SEK 75 billion have been paid out in state employment aid to private companies. Information on the companies that have benefited from the grants and the amount of money received by the respective companies is currently classified with regard to the business interests of the companies. The current regime makes it difficult for authorities and almost impossible for journalists and the public to examine which companies receive government wage subsidies and whether there is over-utilisation, undue payments or other irregularities. Public scrutiny of the use of tax funds should, in this case, outweigh the business interests of the individual entrepreneur. The government should therefore, in our opinion and in the opinion of the Left Party, allow authorities and journalists to examine which companies receive government wage subsidies so that cheating can be curbed while safeguarding the protection of individual privacy.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-236	Madam President, I would like So we are now dealing with the KU38, a motion report with a variety of motions that affect public access, confidentiality and integrity in different ways. In the report we have a unanimous declaration that the government should review the rules on the confidentiality of interpreters. Interpreters are widely used and needed. Unfortunately, we have a lack of interpreters. This in itself is a problem that should be addressed. Among the interpreters we have there are both authorised interpreters and other professional interpreters, and for them different rules apply. It may be the case that an unauthorised interpreter is not covered by the obligation of professional secrecy to which an authorised interpreter would be subject in the same situation. We think this is unfortunate and should be reviewed. The rest of the report has eight different reservations. It's a lot with KU measurements measured, but it's pretty little compared to others. This may be because it is a motion report and we often highlight our own motions. The Left Party has two reservations in favour of the motions we have tabled. Our first reservation is that it should be possible to examine how government wage subsidies are used in private operations. Today is not possible. There are quite large amounts of money being paid out – over the last five years, 75 billion have been paid out by the state as employment aid to private companies. It is not often in the KU that we discuss companies, employment subsidies and these kinds of labour market issues, but this is part of a larger exercise on order and order in the labour market that the Left Party has put forward. This money is paid out, among other things, for internships and various forms of employment support for people who would otherwise find it difficult to get a job. Thus, there is information on how much money it is in its entirety, but which companies receive support and how much support they receive is confidential with regard to business interests. The view of the Left Party is that it is important that it is actually possible to examine how government wage subsidies are used. It must be made easier for authorities and journalists to examine which companies have government wage subsidies for their employees and whether there is over-exploitation, undue payments or other irregularities. I think there are quite a few of us who in different ways have come into contact with companies that have many employees with this type of support without it having been possible to examine on what grounds and how much, companies where internships have been stacked on internships. Of course, this transparency must be designed to protect the integrity of individual employees. Our view is that the government should return to the Riksdag with proposals that allow journalists and authorities to review this while maintaining the integrity of individual employees. The second reservation by the Left Party concerns the need to set up a network ombudsman. No person should be subjected to slander, threats or other serious violations. Yet it is largely done online and in social media. That is why a function in society is needed that can provide support and help to victims. We think it is good that the government has announced that the Swedish Data Protection Authority will become a central supervisory authority in this area and that it will be given a partial change of mandate and change its name to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. However, despite the fact that the new Privacy Protection Authority is given some new tasks, it is basically a supervisory authority. Nor do we know what its mission and activities will be like. Therefore, we still argue that there is a need for an online ombudsman to be given the tools and conditions to help vulnerable people with advice and support. It should be an instance where it is easy to turn and get help when exposed to threats and hate online. The Network Ombudsman can also play an important role in the provision of information to raise awareness and awareness of online hate speech. I therefore support Amendment No 7.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-252	Madam President, I would like Issues of public access, confidentiality and integrity are as broad as they are important. For time to come, I will focus here on those issues where the Liberals object and want more than the government or other parties. I request the approval of reservations 6 and 8. As consumers, we are making an increasing share of our online purchases. Online shopping brings great benefits, but the rapidly increasing share of online purchases also means that we as consumers are giving away more and more data about ourselves, our lives and our consumption patterns. These data are highly sought-after information for companies. An extensive resale of such information takes place between companies in a way that is impossible for ourselves to review. It gives this information very great opportunities to map each of our lives. Liberals therefore believe that the consumer's online privacy protection needs to be strengthened. Of course, companies need to be able to save data on their customers, but much stronger protection is needed as regards the type of data that may be saved and how long they may be saved without the consumer renewing their consent. Consumers also need to be more transparent about what data are stored and how they are used, as well as better opportunities for erasure. The committee already stated in 2016 that the ongoing investigation and preparation of proposals within the Government Office should not be pre-empted. Exercises were therefore rejected. This year you do the same. I find this regrettable because the importance of this issue has in no way diminished for each of us individual citizens, but is constantly increasing in line with our changing purchasing behaviour. Madam President, I would like The current governance structure in the area of privacy is out of date. It's obsolete. Supervision in the area of privacy needs to be strengthened. Liberals have been exercising for many years about a single privacy authority and that the Swedish Data Protection Authority should be replaced by a privacy inspection with a general mandate to monitor the state of the framework for privacy protection in the work of the authorities. We have also requested that the Government report developments regarding the protection of personal privacy in an annual letter to the Riksdag. It is therefore gratifying that we can now note that the Government has announced that the Swedish Data Protection Authority will become the central supervisory authority in the area of privacy and that it will change its name to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. We believe that this should be a first step towards the proposal for an expanded mandate for the Swedish Data Protection Authority set out in the Privacy Committee's interim report. Until we see that this is the case, and until we have an annual follow-up, however, the Liberals' reservation remains on this point. Madam President, I would like I am a liberal and therefore a strong supporter of the European Union, and I think it is of the utmost importance that Sweden is a strong voice in the European Union, including because we have strong trust in transparency and transparency. When EU cooperation and the fundamental principles of mobility, trade and diversity for which it stands are called into question, it is all the more important that we strengthen trans parency and openness within the EU, including through a principle of public access that should be introduced throughout the Union's work. Increased transparency in the votes and working groups of the Council of Ministers, for example, also increases the accountability of citizens, which is important for democratic control and legitimacy. Furthermore, we believe that whistleblowers should be protected by freedom of communication according to the Swedish model. That is why Sweden's voice is important in the EU, and we believe that the government should work for this. Madam President, I would like In fact, I had relied on one of my colleagues to take up the important announcement that the committee is also putting forward, and Mia Sydow Mölleby rightly referred to this. We therefore finally support a review of the rules on the confidentiality of interpreters and announce this to the government. That is why I have already voted in favour of my reservation.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-264	Madam President, I would like In today's report we deal with 25 different demands for exercise, and one might wonder if it is such a big idea to exercise in the Swedish Parliament. Yes, before I sit down, many of the audience will think it's an idea. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2 under paragraph 2, Madam President. In reservation 2 the Christian Democrats have exercised and also reserved for a quality tool for websites. We know that online hatred and threats affect young people, journalists, opinion leaders and politicians. Violations online must be taken seriously and preventive measures are needed, among other things, which lead to fewer net violations. The Constitutional Committee has worked on, and is still working on, this in many different ways. But the Christian Democrats want to add another dimension. The government should, we believe, commission the Swedish Data Protection Authority to develop a quality tool for sites with high privacy standards and then consider whether a quality tool for internet services should be developed in relation to personal privacy. There are such sites, such as threste.com, which involve the labelling of sites with high privacy standards. This could be a way of rewarding those sites and services that work consciously against online infringements. This is a typical example of a motion which an individual, not too large, party has tabled and which has been followed by someone else, in this case the Swedish Democrats. Then you can imagine that it was a funeral in silence. But you don't know that. It may well, especially in the Constitutional Committee, mean keeping the thoughts going and trying this out, and eventually something can come out of these ideas. This has actually happened – and now I am moving on in my thinking, Madam President – with an individual motion. Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell in the Christian Democrats has for a number of years been exercising on the confidentiality of interpreters. He has to excuse me when I say that the exercise was not completely correct in all parts. Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell had not had access to all the expertise of the Ministry of Justice, and the exercise was therefore flawed, especially as regards the designation of the legal rooms. Nor had it been lifted up to a committee motion or a party motion by the Christian Democrats, and I had not signed it. Yet we see in the Constitutional Committee, when we read it together and examine the issue, that there is a point on the issue that an individual exerciser has raised. There is a need for confidentiality for interpreters, and there is a flaw. In the motion Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell asks for an investigation into the need for a single piece of legislation to clarify and strengthen confidentiality for interpreters. We note in committee that an interpreter or translator subject to the provisions of the OSL in the individual case has the same freedom of expression and professional secrecy as an official of the relevant authority. We take the following position: A consequence of the current rules on professional secrecy for interpreters is, among other things, the following: that, unlike authorised interpreters, unauthorised interpreters in certain situations are not covered by the obligation of professional secrecy even though they carry out tasks of the same or similar nature as authorised interpreters. As far as professional interpreters are concerned, in the Committee's view, it is questionable whether such a difference in professional secrecy is justified. Extending criminal confidentiality for interpreters involves a series of complex positions that require careful consideration, not least in the case of individuals who interpret for example friends or family members in different contexts. In this context, the committee also notes that clergymen and other representatives of religious communities are not covered by any statutory obligation of professional secrecy. Instead, you lose your job, you lose your job if you break confidentiality, but it is not a civil offence. The committee believes that a review of the current regulatory framework should be carried out in order to further examine the need and conditions for a possible extension of the obligation of professional secrecy for interpreters. This should be made known to the government by the Riksdag as its opinion. The exercise is therefore partially supported. ..................................................... This shows that, as an individual exerciser, one can get through a point that may not have been perfectly formulated in all parts but still had a point. The members of the Constitutional Committee, from right to left, experienced and totally inexperienced, said that this is a point; we want to continue to follow up on this. I think that is a good sign of the way the Constitutional Committee works, but also of the motion institute itself. It is worthwhile to exercise, because together we see more than we see as individuals.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-276	Madam President, I would like The principle of public access is a fundamental principle for Sweden and our governance. It has helped to build our country strong and successful. The principle means, among other things, that the activities of the government and other authorities should be transparent as far as possible. The public and the media should be able to access information on various issues, regardless of what the public sector itself chooses to inform. Publicity and transparency are the cornerstones of democracy. It is necessary for the accountability of us politically elected representatives and for a well-functioning administration. The Swedish principle of public access is known far beyond the borders of our country. It has inspired others in their work for greater transparency. We'll be proud of that. We'll protect it. Madam President, I would like Secrecy rules also play an important role in society. This may, for example, be about protecting individual citizens or the privacy of the individual. It can also be a matter of national security or of effectively preventing and prosecuting crime and crime. We are therefore dealing with issues where broad political majorities are valuable. It is important that we agree on the foundations of our democracy. We therefore welcome the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the KU38. It reflects the broad consensus we have on many of these issues, and we call for the committee's proposal to be approved. We would also like to take this opportunity to thank the other parties for their good discussions and discussions in committee. I will be speaking almost about one of the issues that we are dealing with in this report, namely the importance of everyone understanding what is being said and decided here in the country. Madam President, I would like Here in Sweden, it is of crucial importance that you know Swedish. It is important for us to be able to get jobs, support ourselves, participate in society and understand what is happening and happening around us. It is simply necessary to be a fully involved citizen. Now that we have many new residents in this country, it is important that everyone learns Swedish and that we continue to invest heavily in this very thing. Learning a new language, however, is not something you do overnight. We all know that. All of us who have tangled German prepositions or Russian tenses. It also takes time to understand the nuances of a language. Therefore, interpreters are and remain an integral part of a modern society – interpreters who can, for example, interpret legal proceedings in courts, in schools or in health care. Interpreters are important for integration. Should the people who are new in this country understand what applies here, and thus be able to feel at home, well, then they must understand what is said and what our rules mean. We must understand each other even before people can fully-fledged Swedish. We can also recall what Sweden's former Prime Minister, Social Democrat Per Albin Hansson, said:.The most patriotic act is to create a country where everyone feels at home. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like To create a country where everyone can feel at home, we need to understand each other and that everyone understands what applies. Although the number of asylum seekers and new arrivals has decreased since 2015, the need for interpreting services will be high in both the short and long term. That is why we need to have a regulatory framework that is appropriate, modern and up-to-date. That is a question that we in the KU have looked at in greater detail. We have drawn attention to this on the occasion of a motion by Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell, in the light of the fact that the trained and authorized interpreters today are too few. One consequence of the current rules for interpreters is that, in certain situations, unauthorised interpreters are not covered by the obligation of professional secrecy, unlike authorised interpreters, even though they carry out tasks of the same or similar nature as authorised interpreters. This means that there are situations where authorised interpreters are subject to criminal confidentiality, while unauthorised interpreters are not covered. In the case of professional interpreters, it is questionable whether such a difference in professional secrecy is justified. However, extending the criminal confidentiality of interpreters involves a number of complex positions. This requires careful consideration, not least in the case of individuals who may interpret for friends or family members. Therefore, a review of the current regulatory framework should be carried out in order to further examine the need for and the conditions for the possible extension of the confidentiality of interpreters. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs therefore believes that Parliament should make this known to the government. Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to point out that we Social Democrats have previously drawn attention to the current lack of authorised interpreters, and the government has acted to secure the provision of the community's interpreters. Last autumn, Minister Anna Ekström presented a comprehensive package of measures. In short, it consists of four steps: Important efforts have also been made in the past. For example, the initial education places of adult education were almost tripled into contact interpreters in 2016. Madam President, I would like The position of the Constitutional Committee is in line with this work. A review of the current regulatory framework enables the current regulatory framework to be updated, improved and adapted to the reality we are in. Madam President, I would like The language and that we should be able to understand each other is about that everyone can feel at home. Sweden is our home. Previously, I quoted our former Prime Minister, Social Democrat Per Albin Hansson. In his home address, he explained the characteristics of a good home. In fact, the other week it was 90 years since he gave that speech here in Parliament, and I would therefore like to take this opportunity to quote a part of the speech: The foundation of the home is commonness and common sense. The good home knows no privileged or retiring, no pet and no stepchildren. There the one doesn't look down on the other. There no one tries to gain advantage at the expense of others, the strong one does not push down and plunder the weak. In the good home there is equality, kindness, cooperation, helpfulness. .....................................................
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-296	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the KU38, Publicity, Confidentiality and Integrity, a report based on motions and demands for exercise from the general period of exercise. I would like to begin by agreeing with much of what Mrs Naraghi has said. The report sets out a large part of the solid work that the government is now doing to strengthen its integrity. Referring to the extensive work done by the majority of exercise requests. However, there is one exception, and it is a question of calling on the government to review the complex cases of an interpreter who is not authorised and who already has confidentiality. It is a question of whether it is possible to demand confidentiality for others as well. Our constitutions have different ages. The past year, for example, celebrated our Freedom of the Press Regulation, the world's oldest, 250 years. The Freedom of Expression Law is the newest, and it dates from 1991. It applies to radio, television, film, sound and image recordings, video, CDs and websites. As more and more of our information has moved from printed media to online, and as more and more new services develop, information about us is increasingly gathered. The environmental party in the European Parliament and in the Swedish Parliament has been a major driver in bringing about stronger legislation for increased online privacy. One result of this is many of the rather powerful wordings that now come into the General Data Protection Regulation during the spring. This is good, I think. I myself, along with some other members of the KU, have been involved in the Privacy Investigation. In an extensive survey, we described the integrity of school, health care, care, working life, insurance, etc. We pointed out a lot of flaws. For example, there are many schools that produce good teaching apps, because it is so simple, however, where much material about students can gather for a long time. Here you need to make big changes. These are major changes that schools, organisations and business will now have to make as the General Data Protection Regulation enters into force this spring. What has also happened is, as many people in this House have mentioned, that the Swedish Data Protection Authority will receive significant additional resources from the end of the year. It will also be renamed the Privacy Protection Authority. In addition, it will have a significantly increased area of responsibility as the General Data Protection Regulation enters Swedish legislation. There are a lot of laws that we will have to come back to in the spring – these are laws that will change. The regulation will replace the Personal Data Act. In particular, there will be much stricter requirements on how personal data may generally be handled and stored. I am convinced that the protection of personal privacy is an issue that we will have to return to quite a few times. This legislation is simply not yet ready. Today, however, I am in favour of the committee's proposal.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-304	Madam President, I would like I would like to say a few words on the issue of the confidentiality of interpreters, which all the speakers have commented on today. I have exercised the right to investigate the matter with a view to clarifying and strengthening the confidentiality of interpreters. Now, a united constitutional committee for e has suggested that the Riksdag should support what the committee says that the government should review the rules on the confidentiality of interpreters and announce this to the government. The motion is partly approved. As Tuve Skånberg pointed out, the motion contains a task that claims that priests and pastors have absolute secrecy. The report states that it does not look like that today. They have no legal confidentiality. This is something that most of the clergy graduates learn that they have. They think they do. This is something that is also being revealed now, because everyone has given me that information. It is believed that there is such confidentiality. Last Monday, there was a priest who pointed this out to me: we actually have absolute secrecy. It's a little unique. But at least I'm very happy that the exercise is answered in this way. Five years ago I was contacted by some sign - language interpreters who pointed out just the shortcomings I have raised in this exercise. They said that there is actually a lack of confidentiality for this type of interpreter. That's why I started working on the question. What, then, is the current situation in the field of interpreters? According to Kammarkollegiet, there were yesterday, January 30, 2018, a total of 1,049 authorised interpreters, of which 225 are sign language interpreters and 824 are interpreters for foreign languages. Of these, 242 are legal interpreters and 172 are medical interpreters. It goes without saying that these are not enough for the needs that exist, as we heard earlier. There is a need for considerably more authorised interpreters, who can interpret in a legal and professional way. In fact, the number of applicants has doubled in recent years. However, the number of authorised interpreters is not increasing, mainly because applicants have difficulties in reaching the right level of knowledge and passing the tests. It is important that it is a high level. In Sweden there are currently 120 to 150 foreign languages, depending on how you count. There are interpreters for 39 languages. So the width also needs to be increased. Many of the 39 languages are of course common, but there are also some odd languages. The authorisation is valid for five years. Then it must be renewed. It's good from a quality point of view. The problem is clear from both my motion and the report. If an interpreter is not authorised by Kammarkollegiet, the interpreter is excluded from the scope of the law if a person, organisation or company hires an interpreter who is not authorised by Kammarkollegiet. It is true that an oral or written contract of professional secrecy can be drawn up, but there cannot be criminal liability if such an agreement is broken. If, for example, a priest or pastor in a soul - care conversation takes the help of an interpreter who is not authorized, the confidentiality of the matter is totally lacking in legal support. In addition, it is quite common to get help from an individual member who knows sign language or who knows a foreign language when you need help with interpretation. It is, of course, a cost issue, but I think it is also a question of authorised interpreters being scarce. That is why, Madam President, it is urgent that the inquiry be launched as soon as possible in order to clarify and strengthen the confidentiality of interpreters, so that it becomes a general rule and that they have the necessary legal support as an unauthorised interpreter. I support the committee's proposal in the report. I also support the Christian Democrats' reservation No 2 on quality tools for websites.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-315	Madam President, I would like Tina Acketoft said here that the Liberals want more than the government in terms of privacy and consumer protection and in terms of greater transparency and openness in the EU. So does the Center Party. Unfortunately, however, neither I nor anyone else from the Center Party was present when this matter was adjusted in the KU on 18 January. That is why, in the course of the preparatory work in the KU, the Liberals did not express their joint reservations in the KU decision. During the preparation in KU, together with Tina Acketoft from the Liberals, in section 1 on privacy and consumer protection, I had requested the approval of motions 3579 by Robert Hannah and several and 3756 by Ola Johansson and others on certain claims. During the course of the preparatory work in KU, together with Tina Acketoft, during the section on increased transparency and openness in the EU, I had also requested the approval of motions 3194 by Jan Björklund and others, motion 18, and 3684 a v Annie Lööf and others, motion 7. To ensure that these claims by the Center Party do not go away, I now call for the Liberals' reservations No 1 on privacy and consumer protection and No 8 on increased transparency and openness in the European Union.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-316	Madam President, I would like We are now going to debate the report by the Constitutional Committee, the KU11, on the official report of the Parliamentary Ombudsmen of Justice. So we are talking about the small report that I am holding here. We get it once every year. When I was new to the KU, one of my predecessors said: This is one of the best receipts you can get on how society works. I really think that's a really nice description. When authorities or other things don't work, you can actually, as an individual, file a JO notification, just to review how things work. On this basis, the committee proposes that the Parliamentary Parliament should include the Parliamentary Ombudsman's report for the period 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017. The Ombudsmen of Justice provided oral information on their activities on 7 December 2017 at an open meeting of the Committee, and on 14 December 2017. In connection with the committee's preparation of the official report, our committee went to the Ombudsman's office, where the office's older matters were examined, which have not yet been settled. The committee's office then took note of diaries, minutes and other documents. There have been no follow-up movements from this point of view. The Chief Parliamentary Ombudsman, Elisabet Fura, was dismissed at his request on 1 August 2016. The Riksdag elected Elisabeth Rynning as the new Chief Parliamentary Ombudsman. She took up her duties on 5 September 2016. On 17 May 2017, the Riksdag elected Cecilia Renfors as Ombudsman of Justice for the period from 1 September 2017 until the new elections were held during the fourth year thereafter. Unfortunately, the Deputy Ombudsman, Hans Ragnemalm, died at the beginning of the year, and the Ombudsman, Stefan Holgersson, requested at the end of the year to be dismissed from office. It is also clear that during the year, Deputy Ombudsmen of Justice Hans Ragnemalm, Cecilia Nordenfelt and Lilian Wiklund served to a certain extent with the handling and decision of supervisory matters. The report further shows that the instruction was amended on 1 January 2017 as a result of the entry into force of a new law on the budget and financial administration of the Riksdag authorities. It is also stated that the JO's Rules of Procedure were amended at one time during the financial year. The change was prompted by Elisabeth Rynning's taking up office as Chief Parliamentary Ombudsman. After the open hearings, I do not think anyone in committee has been left untouched by the stories we have heard. It is rather hideous stories that meet us, and it is also a receipt of why the Ombudsmen's mission is so incredibly important. The committee also has a position on this. The committee notes that the ombudsmen also report observations on serious shortcomings and problems with long processing times and with the application and handling of cases by certain authorities. It is of course unsatisfactory that authorities lack legal enforcement or have insufficient resources, faulty organisation or lack of competence. The findings of the ombudsmen and the need for changes and necessary measures identified shall be of great importance. The committee also assumes that the government and the authorities will take the necessary measures to remedy the errors and shortcomings identified. The committee agrees with the remarks made by the Chief Parliamentary Ombudsman on the importance of the application of the fundamental principles of the rule of law also in relation to persons detained as a result of a crime. The committee also considers it necessary to reiterate that it is a central issue of the rule of law that no one is in detention without a legal basis. The principles of legality, proportionality, purpose and need must, of course, be respected in all forms of coercive measures taken by authorities against individuals. The official record also shows that the application of the rules on disclosure of public documents continues to cause great concern in many places. As the committee has said before, it is a fundamental requirement for authorities and municipalities to fulfil their obligations under the principle of public access to documents in a timely manner and in accordance with the rules in force. The committee would like to emphasise once again the importance of a functioning regular supervisory activity. The proper functioning of ordinary supervision provides better conditions for the Ombudsmen to carry out their extraordinary supervision. The report also contains a number of cases in which ombudsmen have found serious shortcomings linked to the response of the authorities to individuals, and that is also where the members of the committee have been rather badly affected. In the light of what has been said, the committee considers it appropriate to emphasise respect for the dignity of the individual in public activities. The respect of citizens' rights and integrity by the authorities is an integral part of the rule of law. The committee therefore stresses the need for the authorities to work continuously on questions of response and fundamental legal principles, which are defined, among other things, in the state values. It is based on six points that sum up laws and regulations in a very good way. In the official report, ombudsmen also describe a number of measures they have taken to further develop their activities. It is also clear that there is currently an internal review of JO's Opcat business. As the committee said earlier, there may be reason to carry out a broader review of the JO office, not least in view of the fact that the last major review of the JO office was carried out more than 30 years ago, 1983. Over time, the activities of the JO and its conditions have changed in several areas, including organisation, case flow and working methods. The committee may in future initiate such an investigation. With this, the committee proposes that the Parliament should add the official report to the record.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-331	Madam President, I would like I think we all agree that the official report from the JO is Parliament's most exciting reading, because, as Veronica said, it is a receipt of what the authorities have done. Have they complied with existing directives and laws? We have found that things are going well most of the time, but sometimes things are not quite right. There were 700 more new cases this year than last year, mostly social security and foreign affairs. It's a very mixed compote, and the JO makes impact, some random and some predestined. For example, the JO always looks at the court's activities and has seen that in custody cases you sometimes don't follow the law but look at what's best for the children. That is the explanation that has been. But then Lars Lindström, who was the JO who looked over this, says something that I think is very good said: ..................................................... It is vitally important to be allowed to think, and there is a lot of emotion in such goals, but you still have to follow the law. When the JO visited us, it was also noted that what happened in 2015 has meant that we have needed a lot of new staff in almost every place in the country, and you have not had time to train as you should. These are both staff shortages and skills shortages. Sometimes empathy is lacking, and sometimes common sense is lacking. Nothing happens enough of unwillingness, but it's gone too fast and you don't have enough on your feet. A terrible example to which I think we all reacted was the pregnant woman from Hinseberg who was going into childbirth. She'll have to leave Hinseberg with three guards. She's handcuffed. She's in waistcuffs. Even if you haven't given birth, you can easily imagine what it's like to wear a waist cuff when you're in labor. What do the guards think? Is she going to run out into the woods between the contractions? I feel that it is completely lost at such times. Then these three are even inside the delivery room. Surely it is even more unlikely that someone would say sorry, now I run away! This common sense, then, sometimes leaves a few things to be desired, and the JO will obviously follow up on this. I have also, really by chance, looked a little at the libraries and how arbitrarily they buy in books. On some occasions, the Library Act or the Government's demands for objectivity have not been complied with when a loan request has been received. The assessment of what should be purchased in the library should be objective and impartial and not impose restrictions on religious, political or ideological starting points. You should refrain from buying if the content of the book is criminal but not because you yourself do not like what is in the book. There's freedom of speech. If the book is purchased, those with a different view may respond to the content. We have a free right of expression. The library should not engage in its own censorship. Some books have been on the wallpaper. In Botkyrka and Ekerö they have replied that they do not buy the book Mass Challenge because it is based on selectively selected statistics. The statistics in the book come from Eurostat, SCB, OECD, government investigations, research, police reports and journalistic reports. They have no bearing on things I have mentioned before. In Ekerö's library, they do not buy books that support racism, call for persecution or otherwise violate human rights. However, Mein Kampf is available for lending. There we are back to Go. Think before you do anything. I support the committee's proposal that the Parliamentary Parliament should add to the record of the Parliamentary Assembly's official record.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-343	Madam President, I would like I would also like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal that the Parliamentary Committee's report be added to the record. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats tend to point out the importance of giving the JO the good conditions necessary to protect citizens' rights in the best possible way. I think that the Parliamentary Parliamentary Assembly's annual report is a useful reminder for us Members of Parliament of what is going on outside the sheltered workshop that Parliament is after all. Official activism is a reprehensible phenomenon. Officials recruited to manage our common financial resources and our common property and to enforce the law, but who take it into their own hands and thus take over the citizens are among the worst things I know. It is then fortunate that we have the JO, who can intervene when something goes wrong or when someone does wrong. Madam President, I would like This year we have been able to read about how a power-full school management set itself above the Constitution and banned the use of the Swedish flag. This was communicated, among other things, via a porridge-authorised message, which wrote the following: It is positive and bright emotions that are to be highlighted. Furthermore, with this rule we can help someone not to violate another person, not to commit a crime that is referred to as incitement to ethnic groups or not to violate the rules for the use of the Swedish flag or so is happiness double. ..................................................... Of course, this is a completely headless statement, and the school management received criticism from the JO. Although in this particular case the flag had been used in a directly inappropriate way, it can never ever be used as an excuse to ban the Swedish flag or to restrict pupils' right to freedom of expression. On the subject of activist officials there are many things to say in this year's report. There is also an example, which was also mentioned by the previous speaker, of a library here in Stockholm's neighbourhood that has failed to purchase certain literature because it is contrary to the library's intercultural action plan. This goes against the principle of objectivity in the Constitution, and the library is also criticised by the JO. The Culture and Leisure Board in Falköping has refused to buy or even interlibrary loan immigration critical literature because it conflicts with the library's media plan, where – hold on now – values are one of the most important factors in assessing whether or not to buy a book. Examples of such values to be taken into account are gender roles, racism and xenophobia. In addition, with a view to developing the evaluation aspect, it is stated that the library is unable to provide the media glorifying or propagating media for things that are contrary to the UN Declaration of Human Rights. With those criteria when the hell of the Bible would survive in view of the violent messages that can be found in certain parts, such as the Old Testament. The Culture and Leisure Board in Falköping believes that a borrower should feel confident about not having his human rights violated by reading borrowed literature. To censor books, or to remove them because they certainly express legal opinions but, nevertheless, opinions that run counter to the approved opinion corridor, are such more authoritarian regimes. The JO thus comes to the perfectly reasonable conclusion that the constitutional principle of freedom of expression means that opinions may not be expressed in any kind of media as long as these statements are not criminal. One may even go so far as to bring forward statements that can hurt individuals without these in the legal sense violating any human rights. The provision of books and other media with such content in a public library cannot be considered to violate the human rights of borrowers or others. If you have a different view from those presented in some literature, you can choose to respond to them, or if you are easily restricted, you can simply refrain from reading them from the beginning. Thus, in this case too, the JO was rightfully criticised by the Board. Madam President, I would like I hope that we never again need to read about similar cases in Sweden.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-359	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the KU11 Ombudsman's report. I, too, support the committee's proposal. We in the Constitutional Committee get a thick book every year with many of the most interesting cases of the JO's reviews. That's where the case of principle ends up. Often, like Veronica Lindholm, the book can really be a sort of value indicator of how Sweden is doing, especially how the situation is for many vulnerable groups. For example, the Parliamentary Ombudsmen tend to highlight the situation in detention centres, detention centres, forced arrests, and long processing times, etc. Every year, the committee holds a special hearing of the Ombudsmen of Justice, which is broadcast on television or online television. In our report, we then make a few comments. What the KU has done in recent years in particular is to make it clear that matters that have been passed on to the government are being followed up to see if the government is taking care of them. Since many of my colleagues in the KU have already mentioned some comments and observations – the committee also has a basically unanimous report – I have planned to make a small digression to my municipality of residence Kungsbacka, which the JO visited in February 2016. The report from the visit strongly criticises several points regarding the work of the Buildings Board. For example, the JO concluded that 8 300 building cases were pending in the board's diarium. Some cases had simply stopped in the absence of necessary decisions. Some cases had been closed but in a wrong way. It was discovered during the visit and was also mentioned during the hearing that the Board kept around 290 not yet started supervisory matters in a sheet metal cabinet in the archive. These cases were mainly received by the Board in the form of notifications from individuals from 2007 onwards. No official had immediate responsibility for the vast majority of matters. The JO states that it was a startling disorder that testifies that the Board did not understand the meaning of its mission. The board received serious criticism. You can read several comments where the JO states that you cannot refer to resource problems and so on. He also writes that although cases must take a certain amount of time depending on their nature and the need for investigation, complete inaction in a case is never acceptable. Since then, a great deal has happened. I follow local media and go to meetings sometimes and meet colleagues, and I understand that this has been a pretty useful wake-up call for the municipality and the building board. New staff and a lawyer have been hired, and the Board receives continuous feedback on the case balance. I believe that overall this has been positive for the board and, above all, for the citizens of the Kungsbacka municipality, but it was really a tough journey to receive the rather harsh words. With this, I call for the KU's proposal to be approved.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-371	Madam President, I would like I would like to highlight some horizontal information on the activities of the Ombudsmen and to make impact in some cases where the Ombudsmen have criticised the authorities for mishandling cases. During the 2016/17 financial year, 8 748 cases were registered with JO. This was an increase of almost 10 per cent compared to the previous year, and the majority were complaints. During the financial year, 8 300 cases were closed and this represents a slight increase. Nevertheless, there is an increase in the balance of 225 complaints, and it is of course a problem for the Parliamentary Ombudsmen that it has become so. In order to remedy this, the JO has requested an increase in the number of administrators. I'm going to make a few crackdowns on criticism. As regards the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten, JO Lars Lindström notes that the influx of complaints against the authority has increased in recent years, and he considers that the authority has problems. This concerns the management of the influenced agents by the Authority. According to Lars Lindström, the enforcement officer has often made incorrect payments of the funds involved and not within a reasonable time made a correct payment to those who should have the money. Chefs-JO Elisabeth Rynning highlights serious criticism of how the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has acted. There are lengthy processing times at the Office's review units, and she believes that the lengthy review process has made the individual's right of access to justice a serious problem of legal certainty. There is therefore a serious concern at Försäkringskassan. Elisabeth Rynning also highlights cases concerning LSS, which are mainly handled by the municipalities and where there are a lot of errors in the handling. JO Stefan Holgersson points out that there is a need to improve social services' knowledge of the handling of matters relating to forced care. It is essentially municipal activities that are not doing this well. Justice Ombudsman Cecilia Renfors points to the long processing times of the Migration Agency and sees them as a serious problem. She writes in her office's report that she will continue to monitor the application within the Finnish Immigration Service regarding the provisions on age decisions concerning young asylum seekers. Madam President, I would like I want the Parliamentary Parliament to add the JO's office's report to the record.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-379	Madam President, I would like Like many others, I choose to bring the little brick up into the speaker's chair. It may not look much to the world and may not look insanely funny or interesting and does not have a cover for the most exciting book, I think, but it is actually extremely good reading. It is interesting, easy to read and very good when you want a picture of what is happening in Sweden. Many have raised several important issues, and there is little more to say than that this should be added to the documents. However, there are a few things I would like to comment on. One thing that is constantly recurring, which puzzles me, is the long processing times. I would have thought that the digital development and the ability to use tools, aids and computers would make it easier for authorities to do things a little fast and fast. Maybe that's the way it is, and then maybe you've gotten rid of people. The problem is that many things require an individual assessment, and in these cases cases are really taking time. It's a big problem for people. One example is Försäkringskassan, where the review cases take a really long time. In the meantime, people live in a vacuum. They are not reimbursed by sickness benefit because it is under review, but they are not able to pursue the matter further in a legal process. It is totally unacceptable that matters to be reconsidered concerning people's ability to make a living during a sick leave or illness period where they cannot work cannot be dealt with within a reasonable period of time. It is excellent that the Ombudsman for Justice raises this type of issue, and we in committee assume that the government and the authorities look at the things that do not work, come back and take action. Another point that many have highlighted is the treatment of people. I find the view that some government officials seem to have on their fellow human beings – people for whom they have a responsibility – quite regrettable. It is primarily in the police, prisons, the Prison Service and the Kronofogden – authorities that have power over individuals – that people are treated in a completely unworthy way. To even think of a person suspected of a crime being interrogated in underpants alone-- how is that possible? This is not because of a lack of resources, but because of a pure lack of respect in the view of fellow humans. If you consider even the people you work with as human beings, you might wonder. How can you think that a person should be arrested and not have access to a blanket? This is totally unacceptable. The police and the correctional services have a big job to do when it comes to ensuring that the staff behave like people. It is very good that there is a body where individuals can turn when they are mistreated by the authorities. It's an excellent book. Add it to the file, but read it first!
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-388	Madam President, I would like With regard to this report of office – the grace of this democracy, one might say – I fully agree with the previous speaker. Add it to the file, but read it and act on it. Madam President, I would like While newly registered cases, mainly complaints in social security and foreign affairs, continue to increase, the number of new inspection or other initiatives is decreasing. That's something you need to think about. What is the effect of JO reducing its proactivity, while the reactive part, complaint handling, is constantly increasing as well as the balance of cases? This is despite the fact that the JO has developed its procedures and working methods in order to be able to meet the large flow of cases. For us politicians, the question is: Does the JO need more resources? Do you need new instructions? Do you need another organization, or do other authorities need it? Probably all of this is needed. The examination of complaints by individuals must be given priority, as has been made clear here, while there is a great need for inspection activities as well as for a broader review of the entire JO office, as the committee rightly points out. That is also why we Liberals continue our efforts to step up efforts at the JO. The JO is the watchdog of the citizens and as such an incredibly important part of our democratic society. The committee notes that this report also presents serious shortcomings and problems with long processing times and the application and handling of cases by certain authorities. This is something that, for the individual, can significantly interfere with their everyday lives. The application of the rules on the disclosure of public documents also remains a matter of concern. How hard can it be? We agree with the remarks made by the Chief Parliamentary Officer on the importance of the application of the fundamental principles of the rule of law also in relation to persons detained as a result of a crime. It is people like us who deserve exactly the same respect and proper handling. Once again, therefore, we remind you that it is a central issue of the rule of law that no one is in detention without a legal basis. The report also contains a number of cases in which the Parliamentary Ombudsmen have found serious shortcomings in the treatment of individuals by the authorities, including in the case of detentions, as we have just heard, and when authorities take other coercive measures against individuals. Respect for the dignity of every human being in public activities cannot be emphasised enough. The respect of citizens' rights and integrity by the authorities is an obvious feature of the rule of law, and it is therefore essential that the authorities work continuously on issues of respect and value. This is something for which we, as elected representatives, go out into Europe and constantly propagate. Have we not done our own homework here at home, what credibility do we have? Madam President, I would like Much is said about this gracious lunta, which deserves much more reading than it is likely to get. Since 1809, there has also been reason to come back to the matter of the work of the JO and the official account. For this year of office, too, I propose that the Parliament add it to the record. Like I said, read it, act and think.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-395	Madam President, I would like A book of 660 pages brings to mind classics such as Victor Hugo's Society's accident child or Charles Dickens Oliver Twist. Unfortunately, however, the similarities do not stop there. These books were written a couple of hundred years ago, and they painted the backs of society at that time. But this book paints the back pages of our time. My colleagues have read out individual examples. You might wonder why. Well, it is because you should give people who have had their rights trampled on and denied redress. The book is full of examples, which are more or less crude. I would also like to mention, for this redress, what is particularly upsetting. This is about a tenant-owner who stands in the kitchen wearing only one diaper at an executive sale of the apartment. It's upsetting. It's about a woman from Hinseberg who's going to have an abortion and another woman from Hinseberg who's going to have a baby. They're taken to the hospital in handcuffs and waist cuffs. It is so upsetting, and the only purpose of highlighting this here is to restore these women. I don't want this to happen. With regard to the social security system with its review units and processing times, the statistics contain individuals who have not had their rights satisfied when they have been affected by the long processing times of the Social Insurance Agency – up to 25 weeks. For this there are criticisms. Of course, these people are not mentioned by name, but they are people whose entire livelihood and income depend on these systems. And it'll be 25 weeks. It's about officials at the Swedish Maritime Administration and the Ministry of Enterprise. The notifier was informed by the Swedish Maritime Administration that the authority had been in an exceptional situation where the principle of public access was directly counterproductive. The Constitutional Committee is appointed by the House to uphold precisely the principle of public access. Then we can read about a government official who says it is counterproductive. I'm not commenting on it any more. This is about a Vice-Chancellor's decision to ban the use of the Swedish flag, the flag that hangs in this Chamber and that I lift in front of the summer house. And we are also celebrating the Swedish flag's day. The banning of the Swedish flag in a school is outrageous. The Swedish flag is our common symbol for the Sweden we love. Worse still, it is what you can read about the one who froze and didn't get a blanket and who was interrogated in only underpants. The text brings to mind the Sermon on the Mount in the Bible. There must not be examples in Sweden where someone is deprived of a blanket when you freeze – not in the name of the state. One can also read about the library, where zealous officials thought that supply would be restricted from their ideological, political or religious standpoints. We can't have this. And what is the guarantee that this will not pass by quietly? Well, that's the official story of the Ombudsman for Justice. Madam President, I would like We add this report not only to the documents but as a building block in the building for a better Sweden.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-407	Madam President, I would like At the end of this parliamentary term, many things in this and other reports have already been up for debate both once and twice before. Although I would not like to call it old cabinet food, I realise that I will probably repeat at least some of what I have said earlier from this speaker's seat. But we see it as a small summary, and, after all, repetition is the mother of learning. Only the other week, we debated the follow-up to Parliament's application of the principle of subsidiarity. At that time we spoke of Swedish democrats, taking into account what supranational and undemocratic monster the EU has become, how important it is to follow up that the principle of subsidiarity is indeed respected, but also that greater focus should be placed on checking that the proposals for EU legislation are proportionate. As I explained at the time, Parliament is one of the few parliaments that actually examines all the draft legislative acts. Thus, here we can help both ourselves and others with valuable input into how these proposals relate to key principles of citizens' self-determination, so that Europe is not allowed to take too large or far-reaching liberties. Two of these key principles are therefore precisely the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. We have also been able to see that there are more and more objections from Members of Parliament who feel that all or part of the EU's proposals go too far and try to regulate things that are best dealt with by the Member States themselves. Thus, there is obviously both a need and a desire among our elected representatives to express these views. I believe that it would be too evasive and fatal to say, as the majority of the committees here in the KU, that what the opinions of the national parliaments should include should be decided within the EU. I do not know what it is like for the President, but if anyone asks me to deliver an opinion, I shall in fact reserve the right to formulate that opinion just as I myself please. What the recipient of my opinion then does with the information contained in it is another issue that can be discussed, but I am formulating my own opinion. Not least because the EU's own regulatory framework emphasises that draft legislative acts should be justified with regard to both the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, we believe that Parliament should be able to give its opinion on the relationship between a legislative proposal and both of these principles. In addition, each opinion should include an indication of the financial consequences of a draft and the administrative responsibilities of national governments and authorities. In addition, we may, of course, have to make considerably higher demands on the government, both in terms of including a well-examined proportionality assessment in their factual memos and, of course, in terms of how best to defend our national interests in the further negotiations and the continued management in the Council of Ministers. I therefore propose that reservation 2 be approved. Madam President, I would like We also have a number of specific opinions in this report, and I will repeat something about them. So, as the rules stand today, a Member can sign an equal fee regardless of whether he or she actively participates in parliamentary and committee work or plays Pokémon Go all day long. Now maybe there's no one playing it any more – I don't know what's inside today – but the principle is the same after all. One way to overcome this could be to produce a standardised description of what is reasonable to expect from a Member of Parliament. The description can then be linked to a replacement staircase with different remuneration levels. If it turns out that a Member does not meet the requirements as described, the compensation could be adjusted accordingly. In any case, we would not have to pay fees to people who are not here, and we would avoid unnecessary debates about timeouts and school dropouts. As we have stated in another context, the Swedish Parliament Administration, in consultation with, among other things, the Swedish Parliament's Board of Fees, should be able to produce such documentation relatively easily, so that it becomes clear and predictable for everyone what applies. Last but not least, Madam President, next to me is a Swedish flag and an EU flag. The latter certainly does not belong here in the fortress of Swedish democracy and should be taken down immediately. However, since it is the President's special privilege to decide on the flag and the like in this House, we have chosen, out of respect for the office, not to reserve ourselves and to force a vote. Instead, we express our strong disapproval in a separate opinion.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-418	Madam President, I would like So we are dealing with the KU27 report, which is another motion report with all sorts of different proposals on how the work here in Parliament should or should not change. Here it is usually the case, that is to say that all requests for exercise are proposed to be rejected. It is, of course, one of the exceptions that we are doing as we did with the previous report we were talking about, on which we jointly proposed partial approval of a motion. This report proposes rejecting all of them. We in the Left Party have a reservation that one of the motions should be approved. It is reservation No 1, which I hereby support. Our view is that the Riksdag Board should investigate and come back with proposals for changes to the members' remuneration, that is, the members' fees. We think it is a problem that the fee is so much higher than what an average Swedish person earns. We see that there is a risk of creating a confidence gap between us elected representatives and those we are actually supposed to represent. However, there are still strong arguments for the fee to be relatively high. It is supposed to be a fee that allows many people to take a commission in the Riksdag and manage regardless of what they have done before. So we should have a fee that still allows many people to accept the assignment – and which also means that we are not dependent on others being able to contribute money. We're not going to be muttered. It's important that we take care of ourselves. However, we still earn far more than the average, and one thing we could do is limit the fee to the price base amount, for example. This is a proposal that we think should be examined. The Swedish Parliament should look at it. We also think that this should be looked at with additional Members' allowances. We work a lot, and I think few of us spend less than 40 hours a week on this mission. Rather, this mission requires double. But it is also true that it applies to everyone – and yet we have different compensations. We have additional allowances for various things, such as commission chairing or group chairing. In fact, we could look at it differently. We are all Members, we all have the same responsibility to the voters and we are all elected by the voters. How we then distribute our work internally is in fact another matter; then we will have to look at how we distribute the data. However, we have the same responsibility towards the voters, because we are all elected to Parliament. We think that this should also be looked at, and I therefore call for the approval of Amendment No 1.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-423	Madam President, I would like The KU27 report deals with some fifty requests from the general period of exercise last autumn. These are mainly known positions described in the exercise. I therefore feel that this year too, I should like to speak on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Being a Member of Parliament is not a job, but a job of trust. It's a mission we have every day of the year and every hour of the day. Confidence is given to us by our party and by the electorate. If confidence fails, it is a concern for the party and for the voters, but it is not clear that it is a concern for the parliament as an institution. The Riksdag is not our client, but the Riksdag is all our support functions. It is our tool for moving from politics to action and enforcement. Therefore, it is an important and delicate task that the parties' election preparations have when drawing up lists. It is one of the most important elements of parliamentary democracy. As SD proposes, therefore, letting the Riksdag bear responsibility for large mistakes in that job is something the rest of us cannot do. Then there will always be elements in our way of working that need to be adjusted during a term of office, and that is why we have the Council of Members and the Riksdag Board, group leaders meetings and so on. Several motions deal with the way in which work is done in relation to the EU. I note that our joint investigation was only adjusted last week. Commissioner Timmermans will work on the issue of subsidiarity and proportionality in the spring, and Cosac will set up a working group to represent the KU. It is my firm conviction that we will have reason to come back to this issue. Madam President, I would like It is clear that we should celebrate the introduction of universal suffrage. There is a working group in which all parties are represented under the leadership of the Speaker who works to develop everything from good school presentation packages to exhibitions and activities both inside and outside the walls of the Riksdag. Anyone who makes sure to be re-elected has exciting years to look forward to, for this is something to be celebrated for several years. Since we are a country in Europe, the European flag should, of course, hang here in our Chamber. It is the symbol of the rule of law, human rights and democracy. The European Convention is part of our constitution. The Swedish democrats seem to be against it, but we are very much in favour of it. I support the committee's proposal.
i-36VkTWYdbD5dkpyEHuu5yD	Madam President, I would like The Constitutional Committee's report No 32 is also a motion report, in which Members have raised various motions during the general period of exercise last autumn. In this report, 29 exercises are being dealt with. It also contains four reservations and an announcement, to which I shall return. It addresses issues relating to work against anti-Semitism and anti-Ziganism, Roma inclusion, measures on national minorities and minority languages, a Commission of Truth and an official excuse for the Sami people, increased autonomy of the Sami people, natural resource policy, a comprehensive Sami policy, the status of the river valley and sign language as a minority language. It's a mixed compote. I am not going to go into all of these, but I am going to deal mainly with three subjects. Madam President, I would like I will start by saying a few words about the Left Party in particular, which has been exercising on the Sami question, including the right to its own country and the right to hunting and fishing. This is a very interesting question. It is also particularly topical, given the judgment of the Court of Appeal last week concerning the rights of the Girja and the Sami – according to them – to land. This issue is, of course, very controversial, because in this area there are also people who are not of Sami origin and who also use the land, who are also state-based. Of course, we who work with these issues follow this with interest. The government set up an investigation, which was also extended at the initiative of the Constitutional Committee, to review minority issues – including the Sami question. This study, which we have reason to come back to in the Constitutional Committee, addresses issues relating to languages and the importance of languages. This is especially true of Sami in getting teachers for teaching, in order to carry the language on. The questions also apply to the Sameting. The Left Party takes up its dual importance – it is both a parliament and an authority. This is a tricky issue, which we definitely have reason to come back to. There is also a need to review the administrative municipalities, i.e. the municipalities that have committed themselves to providing, for our five minorities, inter alia, letters of authority in their respective languages. As I said, we will come back again on these issues. As work is under way, we do not support these very motions, but of course we do not think too much about this work. Madam President, I would like The second thing I will mention is about our Roma minority. There is an alliance reservation here – more specifically, reservation 1 on Roma inclusion and a national language and cultural institution – to which I call for approval. Here, too, work is under way in terms of participation and consultation. The government has proposed the establishment of a Roma centre. One might wonder why we from the bourgeois parties insist on our reservation, which deals with some of these things. We are doing this for the simple reason that there is an uprising against the way in which the government is dealing with this issue. You don't feel represented or involved. Roma representatives do not feel that they have sufficient resources or opportunities to participate in the various meetings called for by the government, sometimes with only a few days' notice. You will then travel from northern Sweden here to Stockholm for a few hours meeting. It shows a lack of respect, and I fully understand the storm of protest against the government's way of dealing with the issue. We can do it in a much better way – that thing is clear. If, on the part of Parliament and the Government, we are now committed to dealing with our minorities and to giving them special rights, this must be done properly. As I have said, I would like to express my support for reservation 1. The third issue I will raise concerns our Jewish minority. Here the Committee on Constitutional Affairs addresses an announcement to the government and has supported a motion by the bourgeois parties that more needs to be done. It cannot be much clearer — we have a situation in which congregations are closed down because of lack of security and where, for security reasons, one does not dare to bear the mark of belonging to the Jewish faith. It is totally unacceptable that this should happen when we write in 2018. Work is being done in this area. The Crime Prevention Council has been assigned the task of conducting an in-depth study on the Jewish question, to be presented on 1 June 2019. The current government intends to organise an international conference on these issues in 2020. But we need to do things right now. It's already gone way too far. Madam President, I would like The Constitutional Committee has jointly visited and is conducting a dialogue with the Jewish Assembly here in Stockholm. We alliance parties have been to Gothenburg and met the parish there. There are also several of us who have visited the Jewish congregation in Malmö. We are appalled by the fact that, in order to visit a synagogue or similar institutions, guards must pass behind bulletproof glass. There's camera surveillance, and you get a very nasty feeling when you step inside these doors. We have also met representatives who tell us that they have even had armed guards outside the synagogue and outside the Jewish school here in Stockholm. This is totally unacceptable. Of course, safety work involves costs, which the congregations themselves have had to bear. It is, of course, great that the government is providing funds, but that is insufficient, as a single constitutional committee thinks. Finally, I want to be a little personal. As many of you may know, I'm Hungarian. My father came from Hungary. He was born and raised in Budapest during World War II. He was young then. He was born in 1929, so he was a teenager throughout World War II and was in Budapest during the fighting that was going on there. He was also there when the deportations of Jews and Roma took place. He was very secretive about this time. Of course, as a curious child, I asked many questions, since he had experienced this on site. He had a very hard time telling me about this, especially and most of all it was about the deportations. It was about powerlessness. Many of those who were deported were his neighbors, whom he played with when they were young. They lived side by side, and one day they just disappeared. It was really only on certain occasions, when he had relaxed and maybe had a couple of glasses of wine inside the vest, that he told us about this. It didn't get me past how much he was touched by this. In the same country, persecution is taking place today, even fatally, in Roma camps. Leagues go through Roma camps, and it will be fatal when families and children are killed. We're writing the 21st century. This happened only a few years ago. Why am I bringing this up? Yes, because we must never forget! We must not stop talking about this. This is a growing problem, a growing starve, in our society. We should have learned long ago what the consequences would be if we did not stop this in time. I think it is important, as everyone in the KU supports, that the problem should be raised in terms of safety. This is an unacceptable relationship. It is therefore extremely important that the trips made by confirmation groups and school classes to former extermination camps in Poland, among others, be allowed to continue and receive adequate funding. This and future generations have such a responsibility. I apologise for having oversold my speaking time, but this has to be said. We must never forget. I am very pleased that we in the Constitutional Committee, the right hand of democracy, are so agreed on this.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-460	Madam President, I would like On this issue of minority issues on which we have worked in the Constitutional Committee, there is paragraph 1, Work against anti-Semitism, a motion by the alliance parties. We in the Center Party are, of course, pleased that the motion receives support from the other parties in the committee and that it has led to a proposal from the KU for an announcement to the government to spread knowledge of anti-Semitism and persecution of Jews. The exercise and the announcement also highlight the safety of Jewish synagogues, events and meeting places. It also addresses the need for a better dialogue with representatives of Jewish civil society. A background to the motion is the visits made by the KU Alliance Group to the Jewish congregation in Gothenburg and the KU's visit to the Jewish congregation in Stockholm. On the issue of minority issues, there is also a motion by Mr Peter Helander from Mora and by me. It is about the status of the river valley as a minority and country language. Representatives of the association Ulum Dalska and Älvdalen municipality have for a long time stated that the river valley should be recognised as a minority and regional language in Sweden. Many language experts believe that the river valley should be considered its own language. There are also similarities with other languages in the world that are small and endangered. If nothing is done, the river valley risks not being preserved. We therefore believe that the government should investigate the possibility of recognising the river valley as a minority and regional language in Sweden under the Treaty of the Council of Europe. This should be done in order to receive support to save the river valley as a language. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, Peter Helander and I have not received support in the KU, more than by the Christian Democrats, for our motion on the recognition of the river valley. I therefore call for the approval of reservation 5 in the Constitutional Committee's report.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-465	Madam President, I would like Last year came the movie Sameblood. At the recent Guldbaggegalan, it was praised and received, among other things, the viewers' prize, in addition to other awards. The film describes a dark part of Swedish history. These are not the things that took place 2,000 years ago, during the dark Middle Ages or 1,000 years ago, but what happened less than 100 years ago. Although these abuses have taken place so recently, and are still in the fresh memory of many people, this is part of history that is unknown to very many. The rights of the Sami have been strengthened in recent decades, but the abuses and discrimination suffered by the Swedish state and which are still ongoing are often unknown to both decision-makers and the general public. The UN and the Council of Europe repeatedly point out shortcomings in how Sweden respects the rights of the Sami people as indigenous peoples and how discrimination affects the situation of the Sami people today. The discrimination ombudsman and the Sameting have pointed out the need for change and have called for measures that reject and break with the colonial heritage and the discrimination that is going on in the discriminatory structures that are still in existence. We should therefore set up a Commission of Truth to compile and look at the abuses that have been and are being committed. In Canada, for example, a Truth Commission has worked to highlight the abuses that have taken place against the country's indigenous people. There is a lot to learn from that work. Among other things, we can let the individual sufferers tell their stories and listen to them and take on board their experiences and suggestions for action. If what has not happened comes to light and is seen, old ideas of Sami will remain. That is why we need a forward-looking Truth Commission that can work with an independent mandate and also make clear proposals. It is also time for the Sami to receive an official apology. I therefore request the approval of Amendment No 3. Annicka Engblom raised the issue of self-government, natural resource policy and a comprehensive Sami policy. Yes, it is true that things are happening, but not enough is happening. As mentioned, we have had the case with Girja's Girja village, which has been at the Court of Appeal. The legal process is not finished, but the whole thing will be appealed. Let's see what happens there. However, we need to continue working on a comprehensive Sami policy, look at the Sami dual tasks and move on to the issues of self-government. This is also something that the UN Human Rights Council points out. Sweden supports the indigenous declaration but does not apply the rights it entails in Sweden. It is therefore important that we continue to work, and it is good that the funding for the Sameting is increased. It is part of the budget that we in the Left Party have been involved in working out. Still, more things need to be done. That is why we have two reservations, but, as I said, I only support reservation No 3.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-473	Madam President, I would like I support reservation 1 on Roma inclusion and reservation 2 on national minorities. I am particularly pleased that the committee supports the alliance motion on anti-Semitism that we launched last year. It is gratifying that we have a united committee behind this. Last Saturday was the Holocaust Memorial Day. Why is this necessary? I have been asked that question a number of times. Unfortunately, the answer is short: Just look around! In my beloved Skåne, in Malmö, I have friends and acquaintances who for fear of being subjected to violence do not dare wear David's star or kippa. And it's not an unwarranted fear. We have schools, synagogues and cemeteries that need guarding for the protection of property and life. There are regular acts of terrorism around us aimed at the Jewish population. The persecutions of the Jewish population did not begin with World War II. Nor did they end World War II, even though we know that this was the most extensive genocide mankind has ever seen. We must remember this, not just on 27 January of each year, but every day of every year. That is why it is so good that the committee has now agreed on the announcement to the government that together we say that a great deal of important efforts have been made to combat anti-Semitism but that more needs to be done. We stress that it is urgent that there is continuous work to spread knowledge about the persecution of Jews throughout history and up to our day, and that this work is carried out in a way that allows knowledge to reach all parts of the Swedish population. We write that it is important that investments in safety are evaluated and that the security situation is continuously monitored. We need to talk about this. We must act together. Every generation must be won in this struggle. Therefore, it cannot be stressed enough how important it is to all these trips that schools do to see for themselves what was going on. I see it as nothing more than a direct investment in the society that we here together want to see. Madam President, I would like Although the Roma have existed in Sweden since the 16th century, and although it is one of our national minorities, they are still subject to discrimination. If no other group, I have heard parliamentarians speak as exclusive, extreme and ill as if the Roma themselves. Many Roma experience a cemented exclusion, and many Roma have living conditions that are much worse than for the rest of the population in Sweden and in Europe. Is this self-choice, do we think? If we are to be able to do something about this, the work to make the treatment of Roma and travellers visible must continue. The White Paper, which was produced in 2014, highlights the abuse and abuse of Roma during the 20th century in Sweden, is an important tool that must be made available to all. The mapping of Roma, which has continued into our day, sterilisation, child care, entry bans and limited access to housing, education and work – we must also tell you about this. The development work in progress within public authorities and municipalities needs to be spread. Real conditions need to be created to enable Roma civil society to get involved in the work. The government, together with Roma civil society, should review the establishment of a national knowledge and education institution with a clear mission on Roma culture, history and language. In particular, the gender dimension needs to be included in all Roma inclusion measures. Madam President, I would like The other week, I, too, saw the movie Sameblood. I had deliberately delayed it, because I knew how bad I would feel from the film, which shows a piece of modern Swedish history that will forever humble me. In its eagerness to create a homogeneous Swedish people, the majority society took the right to commit tremendous abuse of its own population in modern times. People were reduced and pointed out as less intelligent and inferior. The wisdom of that oppression has forever vaccinateed me against that kind of thinking. I will always fight against any political expression that makes a difference between peoples and peoples, no matter how benevolent it may be packaged. The national minorities Sami, Swedish Finns, Roma, Jews and tornadoes have a long history in our country and have all been subjected to assimilation policies that meant that they were not allowed to speak their language or practice their culture. This is the basis for the need for a specific policy for national minorities at all times. Knowledge of national minorities has improved in the administrative areas, but knowledge outside the administrative areas remains very low. Therefore, further information work is needed in the public sector, but also in society as a whole. The school must provide all students with knowledge of our national minorities and minority languages. How else can you understand your own country? More efforts are also needed to increase access to care for the elderly and childcare facilities in minority languages. We probably need more stringent legislation to make clearer demands on the municipalities in order for this to happen. Madam President, I would like I myself regularly listen to Sisuradio's news. It's my way of training the little Finnish I remember from my childhood. Public service activities are important to keep the languages of minorities alive and out of time. This applies in particular to programmes aimed at children and young people. Without a living language, culture dies, and without culture, man is not complete.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-484	Madam President, I would like Swedish minority policy has developed strongly in recent decades. Long lived the image of the ethnically unified country with a religion. In what Finnish historian Matti Klinge calls it Bernadotte Lill-Sweden – after 1809 – it was part of the story of the new smaller country that it had a unified people. That Finnish had been spoken in Sweden since the foundation of the Empire was suppressed. National minorities were to be assimilated, and they were subjected to widespread oppression. When you meet older Sami or toredal finns and hear their stories about schooling, you don't get proud. Everyone who has seen the film Sameblood has indeed received a testimony about the extent of oppression. Many are those of Finnish origin who have been deprived of their mother tongue during a period when Finnish would not be visible in the country. Many Roma have not been allowed, able to go to school, partly because of their own oppression in the group, partly because of society's oppression. Many Jews face old prejudices in everyday life. In time, the realization arose that Sweden had long held national minorities that had lived and survived for hundreds of years in the country. Suddenly it was seen that this did not make the country poorer and more problematic, but that it made the country and the individuals richer. The rescheduling of minority policy has resulted in several advances, but much work remains to be done. The government has therefore appointed an investigation under the leadership of former popularist politician Lennart Rohdin, who worked on these issues during his term of office. The study proposes a number of measures that will strengthen the position of minorities. In view of the importance of the parliamentary consensus and of the unity of the view of anti-Semitism, we Social Democrats are in favour of what is stated in the bourgeois motion for action against anti-Semitism, although I will admit that it would normally have been a crystal clear rejection matter on our part. Very much that is cited in the motion is the work that the investigation has dealt with and measures that are ongoing and being prepared within the Government Office. But there is an intrinsic value in the fact that the Swedish Parliament marks a strong rejection of anti-Semitism and stresses the importance of measures against anti-Semitism. As far as the other motions are concerned, we would like to call for their rejection with reference to the investigation that has just been completed. The reason for doing extensive investigations is to gather questions and deal with them. A little out of respect for the fact that the investigation work will be allowed to land before further demands for change are made, I am in favour of the Constitutional Committee's proposal.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-489	Madam President, I would like We are now debating KU32 Minority issues, which are a purely exercise report with 29 requests from the general period of exercise. Many have made very interesting and thought-provoking contributions. There are many examples of why minority policy is really needed. I can broadly agree with all the previous speakers. Nevertheless, I would like to insist that the committee's proposal for a decision and the other reservations be rejected. I would also like to remind you that the government is doing a great deal in this area. At the moment, the proposals put forward by the inquiry into the national minority law are being prepared. There I hope for good cooperation from the committee. The Government has also given impetus to Sami policy with a Nordic Sami Convention and proposals for consultation between the state and the Sami. In addition, increased funding has been provided for Sami culture, the culture of national minorities and the Sami Parliament. There is also a strengthening of efforts on the security of minorities. From this autumn there is a searchable grant for organisations or communities that need security measures. It was previously a grant that only religious communities could apply for. So to the very announcement that you need to do more against anti-Semitism and develop an action plan. That's good. More needs to be done. But here, too, I would like to remind you of everything the government is already doing. Annicka Engblom has explained some of the measures. In January 2018, a national centre against violent extremism was established at the Crime Prevention Council. It has participated in international contexts in the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance. But there's so much more. In 2016, the government adopted a national plan to combat racism, similar forms of hostility and hate crime. The plan provides a comprehensive approach and includes strategies to prevent and combat anti-Semitism and other forms of racism through improved coordination and follow-up, more education and research, increased support and in-depth dialogue with civil society, enhanced online prevention and a more active judiciary. The Authority's Living History Forum is carrying out a major educational effort on various forms of racism in history and today, including anti-Semitism. The Agency produces information material on the various forms of racism and educates school staff in collaboration with the Swedish Agency for Education in the framework of this mission. In addition to school staff, other professional groups, such as employment services, social security and police staff, also have the opportunity to participate. The National Media Council works to strengthen children and young people as conscious media users through media and information literacy. The agency also conducts the No Hate Speech Movement campaign among children and young people, including against racism on the internet. MUCF, the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society, annually distributes grants in accordance with the Regulation on State grants to activities against racism and similar forms of intolerance. The Authority has received funds to increase the distribution of state grants to projects specifically aimed at combating, among other things, anti-Semitism. The Government has also set aside funds to support remembering trips to the Holocaust memorial sites in 2018 – 2020. The police authority has raised the level of ambition regarding hate crimes. Nowadays there is a national contact point for these issues as well as so-called democracy and hate crime groups in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. When deemed necessary, the Police Authority increases its surveillance and takes other security measures to protect Jewish interests. The Prosecution Authority has also taken steps to improve the quality of work against hate crimes. As I said, the Crime Prevention Council has recently been commissioned to conduct an in-depth study on anti-Semitic hate crime in Sweden. In addition, in the 2018 budget proposal, there is a significant increase in appropriations for security-enhancing measures for civil society and schools. In 2016, the Government appointed a special envoy for the work to combat anti-Semitism and Islamophobia at international level, with the position at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Special Envoy works to better coordinate intergovernmental efforts and strengthen Sweden's cooperation with important international actors. We will have to do a great deal more in the future. Nevertheless, we should be proud that much is already being done. I support the opinion of the KU.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-503	Madam President, I would like A young woman came towards me down in Skåne. I'd seen her before. She complained with a sad face and said: My husband does not want me to go to Malmö. Of course I was upset. I thought: What kind of drummel wants to ban his wife from going to Malmö? But then she said, "I'm Jewish." I knew that. She had a look that shone long way that Israel was probably a place where she would blend in very well. Her husband didn't want to lose her. When they walked on Malmö's streets, she was repeatedly attacked in the middle of the city center. It wasn't in any particular neighborhood, it was in the middle of the city center. Now the man did not want her to go to Malmö more times. Young men from the Middle East, raised and marked by a completely different way of looking at Jews, harassed her, and that was a danger to life and security. This has happened not very long ago. It has happened that I have been a witness to the sight, and I have heard the testimony. When we read in the newspapers about the synagogue in Malmö and even more in Gothenburg where they are even threatened with Molotovcoctails, fire bombs, which are thrown away, we know that Sweden is not a safe place for Jews. In the committee's report, we say that no one should have to fear or worry about visiting the synagogue, the Jewish school or any other Jewish institution. Well, that's good, and it's good. But we have to add: No one should be worried or afraid of walking on the streets of a Swedish city. I'm so happy, not least for what Hans Ekström said. Normally, the motions are rejected. If you are in a government position, it is part of the rule book chapter A, first verse, that you reject motions. That's what you do. But here it is so important that the committee makes a joint announcement and stands up for Jews to have the security that is self-evident for all Swedish citizens. Here we stand, all parties, united behind this. All parties, if they have any courage, go up with emphasise and say: We are behind this. I am extremely pleased with that. This could happen again. Our common position is the wall that can hold back these forces and make sure that we win the anti-Semites, one by one, to see a brother and a sister regardless of ethnicity or background.
i-c7f1438f1cddde2f-509	Madam President, I would like What's the matter with you? That's how you ask me when I get back to Dalarna. And what's that supposed to mean? They ask, "Who owns you?" That's the way you visit when you're talking goals. Who owns you, and in what social context do you belong? I think that's an incredibly nice greeting in relation to the people you hear if you live in Stockholm, where you may just be the place you live and what you work with. The Övdalska or the river valley, as you might say here, is part of the upper Siljan targets spoken in northern Dalarna. It is a language of its own with roots from ancient and Viking times. Today the river valley is spoken by about 2,500 people in Älvdalen. It is only used in Sweden. On the other hand, English has mentioned a few words from the river valley, such as window. It's really windy in the valley, which means wind eyes. One can imagine an old cottage where there is a small hole in the logs where there is wind. From there comes the English window. My father-in-law Torsten could only go down when he started school. He was forced by the state, through the teachers, to speak Swedish at school. If he didn't speak Swedish, he got beat up. It's been a few years, but it's not really long ago. Älvdalskan and other upper Siljan goals are not only language but also, like other languages, bearers of culture, community and history. The state has actively taken part in taking away people in northern Dalarna. The municipality of Älvdalen has been a bilingual municipality since 2010 because the southernmost Sami, where you speak South Sami, is located in Idre. Therefore, the municipality is part of the Sami administrative area. I am fully committed to the right of the Sami people to use their own language, but I would like us in this House to be able to stand up for the preservation of the small historical rubble that exists of the Old Norse in Sweden and that exists in Älvdalen.
i-kKCv13RuuYGP71xQWM6hD	That is why I am in favour of reservation 5.
