i-470861efe2dc43b9-4	Madam President, I would like First of all, I have to apologize for being so out of breath. I have just had a leap march from the Social Security Committee's session room where we have had a very exciting Question Time with former Director General Ann-Marie-Marie Begler. Then I had to answer some questions from the media. But now I'm here, and we jump fast into a debate on the government bill A safe and more sustainable premium pension system. Madam President, I would like As the report shows, the premium pension is part of the general pension and, as the government points out, it is essentially a social security scheme aimed at ensuring financial security during old age. The bill describes events in the form of very inappropriate behaviour. In some cases this applies to criminal acts which, according to the Swedish Democrats and the rest of the committee, are unacceptable. They risk leading to a lower premium pension for pension savers than otherwise. The proposal and its design are therefore essentially a necessary and welcome reform of the overall conditions for fund managers wishing to establish themselves at the Fundtorg of the Pension Agency. They will thus be involved in managing the Swedish people's premium pension savings. These tightened rules will help ensure that rogue or otherwise inappropriate actors will no longer have access to the fund square. The Swedish Democrats therefore have no objection to the Government's proposals in these parts. Madam President, I would like However, with regard to the Government's proposal on sustainability, we have submitted a motion with some comments. The basis for this is that the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, as well as the Swedish Pension Agency, the Swedish Consumer Agency and a number of other consultation bodies, consider that it will be difficult to define the condition for sustainability work in fund management in an appropriate way. It is believed that the guidelines are unclear. The Pension Authority, the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, the Department of Economics at Uppsala University, with several consultation bodies, also believes that it should not be the responsibility of the Pension Authority to define the precise meaning of the condition in the fund agreements. In accordance with these comments, we believe that the Government's proposals on sustainability work are too unclear and leave it too open to subjective assessments. In common with comments received on previous proposal, proposal 2017/ 18:3907 Better conditions for fund saving and sustainable choices, state referral bodies such as the Swedish Competition Authority and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority have stressed that reporting requirements on sustainability work can increase incentives for fund managers to exaggerate information and carry out greenwashing. This means that information is distorted in order to beautify the public image of a company or product from an environmental point of view. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are of course in favour of open and transparent information linked to the sustainability efforts of the actors. The fact that there are funds that carry out sustainability work is, of course, positive. It is important that pension savers can make an informed choice. In this respect, it is already the case today that anyone who specifically seeks to make sustainability-friendly investments is offered a plethora of specialised sustainable investment options, which are part of a variety of environmental certification organisations. These may, for example, be svanmarking funds whose investments in companies and products are audited, which makes greenwashing difficult. We therefore want to announce to the government that it will return with a new, clearer proposal regarding sustainability. It shall not be the responsibility of the Pension Authority to define the precise meaning of sustainability requirements, leaving room for unclear and subjective assessments. We believe that the guidelines need to be clearer.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-11	Madam President, I would like I do not think there is any other issue that we are debating in this House that receives as many headlines and front pages of the newspapers as pensions. More or less every two days we can read about pensions at all its angles. That's no wonder, because pensions affect us all throughout our lives. For me as a social democrat, the basic position is clear. Anyone who has been involved in building our country should be able to feel safe when you get older. Many can look forward to a good and active retirement period with good finances. Others live under very scarce conditions. The conditions for older people with the lowest pensions need to be improved. I am pleased that we in the Pensions Group now agree to increase the guarantee pensions and improve the housing supplement in the future. These are important improvements that will mean a lot to many older, mostly single women. At the same time, we Social Democrats have delivered in government and reduced the tax on 1.7 million pensioners. The entire unfair tax gap built up in the bourgeois years is now wiped out on pensions up to 17 000 per month and reduced on pensions up to 35 000. We have made a clear promise that the whole injustice will be removed by 2020. Pension is deferred salary and should be taxed equally. To this we have also made proposals to raise pensions by SEK 600 for all those who have worked a whole life but still have low pensions. This is important investment in security and a strong society. Today's debate, however, is about another form of security and stability: the security of not being deceived and exploited in social security. Madam President, I would like There are few things that have pissed me off as much as the revelations of recent years about how rogue actors were shooting at pension savers' money. These are actors who should never have seen the light of day, and they should have been behind bars for a long time. It is also a system with clear shortcomings in the mission, control function and lack of muscle to meet this phenomenon. Our pension system exists to provide security for all who have been involved in building up our country and laying the foundations for our welfare. It is a central part of the Swedish model. Therefore, the pension system must also be safe, simple, stable and, above all, reliable for current and future pensioners. Unfortunately, it does not look like that today. Instead, the premium pension, which is part of the pension system, has been a place where rogue financial operators have been allowed to lure large amounts of money into their hands because people are not experts in the financial market. The Swedish Pension Authority as well as the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority have pointed to serious shortcomings with the current system. For some time, the system has been shaken by several scandals, and we have seen examples of people being cheated on their future pension by excessive contributions and directly poor placements. Sometimes it has even been criminal activity where funds have been drained of money. The pension authority shall not have to pursue pension billions in tax havens. What has happened jeopardises confidence in the entire pension system, and that is totally unacceptable in a security system. Madam President, I would like It is no secret that we Social Democrats have never loved the PPM. But we are also a party that takes responsibility for the agreements we make and the reality we face. With the best interests of pension savers in focus, we have pushed for the PPM system to be simpler, with a greater focus on sustainability, with lower fees and better protection against rogue actors. The system should be fundamentally reformed. The starting point must be the conditions and interests of pension savers. Pension is a compulsory saving. Therefore, all people must be able to rely on the security of the system. You should not have to be a financial expert to get a good pension, and your pension should absolutely not be stolen. Today it is not even 1% of pension savers who make a choice when entering the premium pension scheme. Too many people who choose funds do so after being contacted by actors who do not have the saver's best interests in mind. It is not possible to control more than 800 funds spread around the world – not for the authorities, let alone for the individual saver. What we are doing today with the SfU30 proposal, which we are calling for, are changes to the premium pension system that strengthen the state control of the fund square, raise the demands on the operators and, as a consequence, will also lead to a reduction in the number of funds. At the same time, we are introducing a welcome ban on marketing and sales of services and products in the premium pension area by telephone. Madam President, I would like To ensure confidence in the premium pension and the entire pension system, security and predictability are required for savers. You should not have to be an expert on stocks in order to be able to safely save for your pension. When the state is behind a system, it must also be safe. Today's decision is the first step in reforming the premium pension scheme in order to provide better security and higher future pensions. The Pensions Group agrees on continued work in the future that includes a clearer pre-selection, a procured fund square and a special principal responsible for ensuring that the fund square is always safe and sustainable and of good quality. The pension is part of the social security system, which provides security and protection for all.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-25	Madam President, I would like The pension is based on earnings and is based on earned pension rights in the premium pension scheme. All Swedish workers born in 1938 or later earn their premium pension. The right to a premium pension requires that you have had pensionable income. A sum equivalent to 2.5 per cent of the pension base is deposited annually in a premium pension account with the Pension Authority that is linked to the individual. Pensions are life-threatening, and the premium pension scheme is therefore a life-long compulsory pension saving. The pension scheme is a fund insurance scheme with the State as an insurer. The capital is managed in funds and managed by independent fund managers. The pension authority is the unit-holders of the investment funds where the funds are placed, but it is the individual pension saver who decides with which managers the funds are to be placed and bears the financial risk. As mentioned above, the money must be placed in a maximum of five funds according to the breakdown determined by the insured person. If you do not make a choice, you will be placed in the default option of the Seventh AP Fund, the so-called Såfa. Thereafter, the Pension Authority shall transfer new pension funds each year to the fund or funds that the saver has last designated for his or her savings. I have said this as an introduction to the premium pension system, so that everyone knows what we are talking about. Madam President, I would like The pension is an important part of the pension system and has so far been a very successful venture. The return has been as much as 7.1 per cent on average since its inception in 1994-1995. That is much more than even what the forecasters said. If it goes well, it's 6%, they said. This is not a guarantee for the future, but it indicates a very important thing. It makes a big difference for future generations if we can get a relatively high return. This rate of return is more than twice as high as in the income pension system. In 20, 30, 40 years it makes a big difference for many groups. This is precisely needed for these groups, who may have been born in the 70s, 80s or 90s. Studies show that pension levels for these groups fall if no changes are made. It is good that there are alternatives for those who for various reasons do not want to choose for themselves. But this is also one of the things that we need to look at in the future, so that risk and opportunities for good growth have a good balance after age. The autumn elections are approaching, and we want a general debate on pensions, even if this is about premium pensions. The present government boasts of cutting taxes. Overall, the Alliance government reduced taxes by 16.45 billion. Sometimes in the debate it sounds like we raised taxes from 2006. It's not like that. We have also been fully involved in the tax cuts and pension increases that have been expressed. So there is no opposition to this. Pensioners should have their part in our society after a long working life. Madam President, I would like We note that a number of fund managers and funds have been added which exclusively manage PPM capital. In addition, events have occurred on several occasions that have been criminal behaviour. In several cases, methods have been used to increase the fee in a misleading manner. We can't have this. Although the premium pension scheme has been fundamentally good for pensioners, it is absolutely unacceptable for a few fund companies to try to circumvent the schemes and enrich themselves more than is stipulated in straight agreements with the Pension Agency. The Pensions Group and the Government have therefore, in broad agreement, instructed the Pensions Authority to submit a number of proposals to reduce and eliminate the risk of raising funds and values unduly. This led to a 30-point programme in which we looked at the impact of the proposals if they were implemented. We also listened to the referrals received. This led to the adoption of 29 of these proposals. We removed a proposal that had major drawbacks but did not provide much certainty. To mention some of the proposals, these are requirements for certain minimum capital and a certain period of return history, requirements for objective valuation, the same requirements for funds in underlying funds, restrictive marketing, clarified criminal liability in the case of ID-encapsulation, regular review of signatories, control of risk behaviour among fund companies and many more measures. Madam President, I would like Total capital has grown a lot in recent years and is now up to nearly 1 100 billion. In 20 years' time, capital could have grown to more than 4 000 billion. Then it is also important to have a good and safe organisation so that irregularities are minimised as much as possible, without losing the freedom of choice of the individual. Therefore, these 29 points are a first step towards a change in premium pensions. We have also, like the vast majority of authorities, companies and organisations, today made a point about sustainability, where fund managers are required to provide sustainability information. This information shall also be communicated to all savers in order to enable them to make adequate choices. The Swedish Democrats have tabled a motion for the government to return with a new proposal in this section, namely motion 2017/ 18:4185. I demand that this motion be rejected. Madam President, I would like Finally, I support the proposal contained in the Social Security Committee's report 2017/ 18:SfU30.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-36	Madam President, I would like The pension scheme is part of our social security systems. It is an important piece of the puzzle of general pension, pension agreements, private pension savings etc. which together becomes our final pension and which will provide financial security when we become pensioners. Then the PPM system must also function satisfactorily. I don't think it does today. The Pensions Group has also identified a number of shortcomings that need to be addressed. At the same time, it can be said that the PPM system for many has worked well and produced a good return. That picture, of course, is also there. At the same time, however, we know that about one in ten pension savers in the premium pension scheme, who deposit their money there, will see their savings fall in value, and can therefore expect a reduced pension. It is not a satisfactory scenario in a security system. Some see their savings fall in value because they take a conscious risk and play high, so to speak. But a not insignificant part loses because they do not have knowledge and find the system incalculable and difficult or because they are more or less fooled to invest in a bad fund through, for example, aggressive telephone sales. Therefore, it is important for politicians and the authority to make the PPM system as easy to understand and transparent as possible. It is also the case that the premium pension system with all these funds now in existence has lost its legitimacy to some extent. This is demonstrated by the fact that today an extremely small proportion of the newly created pension savers in the scheme are making an active fund choice. I think that's a lot to say. It was also a long time ago that major adjustments were made to the system. The Pensions Group has spent a lot of time and discussions on how to improve the PPM system. The shortcomings in the system were particularly noticed when it emerged that there were rogue actors in the PPM fund square who did not have the best interests of pension savers in mind but acted for their own profit. We have all been able to read about it in the media. It is the Falcon Funds, the All and more actors who not only acted unseriously but have been a fraud and probably also acted criminally. Some of them are now the subject of investigations by the Swedish Economic Crimes Authority. Unfortunately, far too many pension savers have seen their money go up in smoke. Of course, we in the Green Party find this totally unacceptable, and I believe that the entire Pensions Group shares this view. It can be said that the policy and the responsible authority, the Pension Authority, has acted on the basis of a desire to see pension savers act. But when savers do not act that way, partly because of an incalculable and incomprehensible system, politics simply needs to rethink. From this point of view, it is a good thing that we are now highlighting the so-called pre-election option, i.e. the 7th AP Fund's management of pension funds, as a real alternative. After all, it is there that people who neither want nor can spend much time sitting and comparing the return history of different funds or, for example, contributions choose to more or less passively place their pension savings. The 7th AP Fund, the default option, has over time proved to be a good option as it has produced a fairly good return. Politics and the system must adapt to this. We are now making proposals here today for a number of measures to improve the PPM system based on the so-called 30-point list of the Pensions Agency. The Pensions Group will then further initiate various investigations to get a more understandable and simple PPM savings. The work is not finished with today's debate and decision. We will continue that work in the Pensions Group. In this context, however, I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the Pensions Agency, which in a fairly short time produced a comprehensive programme of measures, not least in order to secure for rogue actors in the fund square. The authority has done quite well. Of all the points to improvements in the system – I will not mention all of them here – I would like to point out in particular that we are now stopping the possibility of aggressive telephone sales where pension savers have risked being tricked into poor funds with high fees and poor returns. In fact, it is now necessary to sign self-sponsored approval when moving or changing funds. It has not been required before, which is quite surprising. As an environmental party, I would, of course, like to point out in particular that a fund agreement to be included in the fund square of the premium pension scheme should contain conditions for sustainability work in fund management that take account of environmental and social sustainability. We in the Green Party think that's great. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-46	Madam President, I would like For me, the proposal really highlights what is important for me and the Center Party. It is that you should be able to influence your pension and the outcome you get on the day you get older and stop working. I do not intend to have a general political debate on the pension system here. Today it is about the premium pension and how we can improve it. I would like to respond directly to what Rickard Persson from the Green Party said about the fact that it was negative to act on the premium pension and decide for yourself which fund you want to manage your pension contributions in. We know today that 94% of those who have invested their money in funds in the fund square have received a better income pension than from the scheme. It is not true that it is negative. There are some negative funds. The people who have lost are the ones who have played, I would say, on various options. Today it is about improving the premium pension and making it more legally secure. The idea that we would receive a premium pension – a part of 21⁄2 per cent – to decide for ourselves and enable us to get a better pension arose when we re-created our pension system in the early 1990s. We heard from Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng that today the market value of the money in the premium pension was 1 000 billion. In just 20 years, there will be 4 900 billion. There's a difference! Saving for retirement is long-term. This means that it is our children, and especially grandchildren when you are my age, who will receive the money available in the fund square if you are involved in placing your money there. We have had different discussions about the product of the premium pension or not to be. But in our joint agreement in the Pensions Group, as we showed in December, the premium pension will remain, and there will be many different funds to choose from. In connection with scandals and irregularities and even criminal funds in the fund square that were offered to the public, our current Prime Minister, Stefan Löfven, reacted and said he was ready to abandon the premium pension. We from the Center Party don't want that. However, we are going to make the system legally secure, and that is what today's debate is about. We will continue to have an open fund square with many different funds to choose from. But we're gonna make sure it's safe. We will make demands on who gets to place their money there when it comes to how much muscle, money and other funds they have to manage that shows that they can also treat pension funds. So this applies to the administration, and it is true, as I said, that there is one activity which is and which has historically been serious. This means that no one should be able to deceive people by phone to put their money into funds. It is important to be able to sign with your own signature if you make changes. That is why we are proposing a ban on telephone sales of funds. There is an important part of the proposal: the pension system must be sustainable. Of course, this applies from the point of view of the environment, but sustainability also deals with the long-term sustainability of placing money in the fund square. The long-term perspective is about knowing that from the first day you work you should be able to place your money and consciously be able to make a choice to influence your pension. This is important. Then there must be a long-term perspective and sustainability in that the pension system works as it does and that we should have funds. From the Center Party, we are convinced that Sofa – the responsibility of the state to manage money when you do not invest yourself – should remain and be important. But we should also be able to influence ourselves and be active in the fund square. Therefore, Madam President, it is important to mention in this context that information to our young people about this opportunity is important. It is important to inform the public at all that this possibility exists, how and what you do and that it is not very difficult. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report and for the motion of the Swedish Democrats to be rejected.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-55	Madam President, I would like Solveig Zander said that I have a negative attitude to people making their own choices in the fund square. That's not really true. Solveig Zander may have noted – or perhaps not noticed – that I said that there is also a picture where the PPM system for many has worked well and produced a good return. However, it has to be said that the legitimacy of the system is limping when there are so very few people, under 1%, who make an active choice because the system is incalculable, incomprehensible and perhaps not transparent in all its parts. Then we have a problem; I think Mr Zander also agrees. That is, among other things, what we are trying to do. We agree in the Pensions Group that, through the various proposals we are now putting forward, we will overcome some of this problem. Then some may feel motivated to make active choices. The picture you gave of my attitude was a little misleading.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-59	Madam President, I would like Then I misunderstood Rickard Persson, and of course I take back what I said. But you said now that it's under 1 percent making active choices. That depends on what you mean by active elections. It's one thing to come in and choose the first time. But it is considerably more than 1 per cent that then relocates and is active in the fund square. An active choice may also be to maintain the position made on the first occasion. It is an active choice, but it is not clear that you have been in and moved your funds. Thus, far more than 1% make an active choice. We must have legitimacy for the system we have; it is important. That is exactly why we are redeploying the premium pension so that it becomes an active manager and clear criteria for when, where and how to place your funds in the fund square. It is incredibly important, and I hope that we are in complete agreement on this.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-62	Madam President, I would like Yes, we are. That is precisely why we are proposing these measures. As I said earlier, this is part of the process of making a more reasonable PPM system. This process will continue. The discussions in the Pensions Group will continue. There are other suggestions on the group table for discussion on further improvements to the PPM system in various ways. The work is therefore continuing, and we agree on this. I have nothing more to add, Madam President.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-64	Madam President, I would like That's why it's so important – and I really want the Green Party to agree – that we get much better information about the existence of the premium pension, that we can choose for ourselves and that it gives a much bigger and better opportunity to get a higher pension. That is where society is failing today. Today, we do not have information in high school for young people who are prepared to enter the world of work about this opportunity. There is also no information on how to proceed. If we want more people to be active – and by that, I mean managing their money in the fund square – we must help everyone in society to know and understand that this opportunity exists and that they can take advantage of it. I honestly do not think that the Green Party has anything against it. However, it is important that we also pursue this in the Pensions Group and not just talk about criteria, reviews and so on. We must also push for comprehensive public information on the important opportunity to place money in the fund square. Freedom of choice and opportunities to influence yourself are A and O for the Center Party.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-68	Madam President, I would like I have said this before in this House, and I repeat: I am proud that in the early 1990s we reached a cross-block agreement to shift a financially unstable pension system into a financially stable system. Then, of course, it is a matter of monitoring the progress of the individuals who are in this system. It contains some that we had not tried before. That is what we are discussing today, namely the premium pension. The purpose was for people to feel that they were in control and had power and influence over the placement of some of this during life-growing capital. At first, half, 9%, would be set aside for premium pension. But we, among the Liberals, felt that this was a very large part of the pension that was to be placed in something that we had not tried before. So we landed at 21⁄2%, and I think that was very wise. We see that, in essence, this has been a success. It has been fortunate that the possibility has existed for people to place their own money. However, we have also seen abjects, and it is the avarities, the criminal avenues, I mean, that we are dealing with the decision we are going to take in Parliament. I therefore support the SfU30 proposal and reject the motion. I will not repeat what security measures we have put in place, because that has been the subject of previous speakers, but I believe that we have come a very long way now in guaranteeing people that this money will not be, as it were, criminally treated. It is important to also move on and plug further holes that can be detected and that the public feels that we have argus eyes on what is happening here. This will then be further developed, and we will make changes to other parts of the pension system. But that is not what today's debate is about. I would like to say one more thing about the premium pension. I think it is an advantage that early in life, by being forced to understand what this premium pension scheme means, we are beginning to think about what is actually happening to the pension. Most youths feel that the pension is so far away and that it is not something to consider. The interest of many is minimal. But perhaps by making an active choice here, some will still get involved and realize that it is life's income that is crucial. They may also hear how grandparents discuss their pension and difficulties. Perhaps they then realize what it means to start working as early as possible and also think about how to dispose of your economy in general. Having said that, I am therefore in favour of the proposal contained in this report. I am convinced that the Pensions Group continues to follow developments in all aspects of the pension system, because improvements are needed here and there. We have heard that in one of the speeches earlier today.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-75	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. We are now going to debate a report on increased possibilities for workplace inspections. Basically, it is good and necessary changes that are being made and that are about having an opportunity to inspect so that those who work at our workplaces in Sweden have the right to stay in the country and have the right to work here. It goes without saying that this is how it should be done. It is also important to have the opportunity to carry out these kinds of inspections without pre-notifying it, because it may not always serve so much otherwise. Just looking at conditions that arise once you are in place or who is present then does not really provide the same opportunities as in unannounced inspections. From the Swedish Democrats' side, we have chosen to put forward a follow-up motion on this anyway. This is a small, small change that we would have liked to see in the legislation. It is now proposed to allow unannounced workplace inspections to be carried out, but only in certain sectors of activity, namely those which have been identified in advance and which are subject to an EU directive on the criteria to be applied. These should be risk sectors where it is known that people are often working even though they are not entitled to stay in the country. It may seem wise at first sight to limit oneself to those areas where it is known that there is a high risk of this. However, it continues to be the case, as the Swedish Bar Association has pointed out in the referral, that it sends rather strange signals to actors in other industries who then know that they are safe and do not have to worry about workplace inspections. There is also a real risk that, as an unserious employer, one might change the industry in order to keep alive the possibility of using our systems and people where appropriate. There may also be individual employers who work outside these risk sectors but who have received some signs that one should investigate, but then one cannot do so because this particular employer, this entrepreneur, operates outside the sectors that have been identified in advance. Then you stand there and have to try to solve this differently. We do not think it is reasonable, but it must of course be possible to act quickly and investigate and not in this way send out strange signals. This also actually creates a step of unnecessary bureaucracy, one might say. This is justified by the fact that the police are able to implement their priorities and allocate their resources properly. I assume the police will do that anyway. What this means is an extra step. It is still up to the police themselves to decide and identify these sectors, although under certain directives, it is still up to the authority itself to decide. This is something that other consultation bodies have pointed out but perhaps the other way around – they want that if you are going to limit this, it should be clearly limited in the law which activities you are allowed to carry out workplace inspections and which you are not allowed to do so in order to have clear conditions as an employer and know what applies. We believe that there too it is reasonable to have the same conditions for all employers, i.e. it is possible to carry out workplace inspections everywhere and at any time. There should not be unnecessary steps of bureaucracy where the police first have to decide to target the specific industry and then focus more on the activity itself, but we assume that the police themselves have the competence to prioritise the needs and allocate their resources. That is basically what is said also when it comes to the police identifying these risk sectors, i.e. that the police know how to prioritise and identify them. There's nothing to say they won't even do that. It should reasonably be possible, by means of regulatory letters or something, to urge that the focus should obviously be on these kinds of industries, but I do not really see why the exclusion of the possibility of carrying out inspections elsewhere and in other activities would be necessary. Madam President, I would like I therefore support the Swedish Democrats' reservation to delete a small second paragraph so that workplace inspections can be carried out everywhere.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-82	Madam President, I would like Common to undocumented people is that they are in an extremely precarious and vulnerable situation. They are forced to live hidden in constant fear of being discovered, cared for and expelled. They are here for a variety of reasons and are often left entirely to the shadow of the labour market where unscrupulous employers do not hesitate to exploit their situation. Many are forced to work at very low wages and under poor working conditions with long working hours and weeks, lack of safety equipment and more. There are many evidences of how undocumented people have been used for wages far below the minimum levels of the collective agreement and to inhumane conditions in general. For fear of losing their livelihood and being sent out of the country dares to have undocumented people turn to the authorities and let alone claim their right to the employer who exploits them. The threat of being reported to the border police is too great. In addition to the human suffering caused by the exploitation of undocumented migrants, it also contributes to unhealthy competition in the labour market and between companies. Employers who pay collective wages find it difficult to compete with employers who pay only a fraction of this in wages. Serious employers with fair wages and conditions are at risk of being competed out by rogue employers. There is therefore every reason in the world to change legislation to curb this trend. Nevertheless, the Left Party believes that parts of the government's proposal are not quite the way forward. There are three points. Firstly, the proposal proposes that the Police Authority should be given more opportunities to carry out workplace inspections to prevent employers from hiring people who are not entitled to work here and to prevent people from being exploited. It seems to me that it is only out of concern for the undocumented that the government is putting forward the proposal. However, the Left Party notes that this is not the case. If the government had seriously intended to counter the exploitation of undocumented people, a great many other proposals should have been put forward. It is clear from the bill that, in connection with these inspections, the police have the right to carry out internal checks on aliens if there are grounds for doing so. If the police have reason to decide on internal checks on aliens, the person subject to the check is obliged to hand over passports or other documents showing that they have the right to be in Sweden. The aim of the proposal is therefore not only to detect and prosecute rogue employers who employ and exploit undocumented employers. The proposal also provides for increased possibilities for the police to carry out internal checks on foreign nationals in connection with labour inspection in order to detect, dispose of and expel undocumented persons. Indeed, the proposal was also presented for the first time as part of the Government's strategy for a better functioning return. The Left Party believes that it is only the employers who employ and exploit undocumented workers who should be subject to the police's workplace inspection – not the undocumented. It is the employer who should be prosecuted and punished – not the undocumented. If the government really wants to change the situation of undocumented workers on the Swedish labour market, the focus should be on employers. TCO concluded in an article on the proposal: 中 Making it more difficult for exploitative employers to escape is quite right. However, if you are serious about countering exploitation, today's inspections and regulations are incorrectly designed. Since the undocumented person is at risk of expulsion as a result of the inspections, they cannot exercise the rights conferred on them by the same legislation. It is simply impossible to strengthen their rights with the same measures that will frame them. Migration control and control of employers must be kept separate. ..................................................... The Left Party fully agrees with this. In addition to the fact that the Government's proposal provides the police with increased opportunities to carry out internal checks on aliens in order to detect and expel undocumented migrants, the proposal risks leading to the profiling and harassment of certain groups in the labour market, regardless of legal status. Secondly, Madam President, the Left Party agrees with the Government that there are very strong reasons to increase the special levy for employers who exploit undocumented workers. The current amount is too low and an increase in the levy may have a deterrent effect. However, we also think that other measures should be considered in relation to employers who employ and exploit undocumented workers. The number of sanctions for these employers, in the form of both the special levy and other criminal sanctions, is relatively low compared to the number of inspections carried out and the number of undocumented persons identified. There is good reason to review the legislation and look at whether there is more and more to do. Finally, thirdly, there are a number of changes in legislation that would make it easier for undocumented people to exercise their rights in the labour market and make it possible to access those employers who use them as cheap labour. The Aliens Act is amended to decriminalise those who have worked without a work or residence permit. Today's legislation, where both the employer and the employee can be punished for illegal work, effectively protects the rogue employers. We believe that employers should bear the full criminal liability for the employment itself. It would improve the possibilities for undocumented people to demand wages and working conditions in accordance with laws and agreements and to use the right to receive compensation and compensation from the employer. We will return to Parliament with a proposal on this at a later date. In addition, legislation should be tightened so that employers who use undocumented workers for low wages are obliged to pay the difference between the salary paid and the salary paid in the industry. The employer should be able to pay damages for the abuse of the person who has been used. With this, Madam President, I support reservation 2.
i-WevKKEEg8dWYHFAnWiGw2j	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Christina Höj Larsen, for an interesting speech! I would like to begin by rewording one of the first sentences that was said. Those here called undocumented people have one thing in common, namely that they reside in the country without the right to be here. They have either been refused an application to be here or have not contacted the Swedish authorities at all that they have crossed our borders and are now staying in our country. It was a speech that was full of talk about their rights, to be taken care of. There was also a question about what the government intends; is this done out of concern for the undocumented and for wanting their situation to change? I don't really know what the government wants-- they change their mind a little anyway-- but I know we want to change the situation for those who are here illegally and who are called undocumented by the Left Party and others. Because we want them not to be here. If you don't have the right to live in our society, you shouldn't be in our country. We believe that this is an obvious part of upholding our laws and regulations. In fact, we have regulated immigration into Sweden. It is usually, at least occasionally, heard from the Left Party that they too support the idea that there should be some form of regulated immigration. However, in the light of the speech we have just heard, I feel that it is justified to ask once again whether the Left Party believes that we should have regulated immigration. If so, does the Left Party mean that it should be complied with? And how is this to be done if you consistently call those who stop despite a rejection decision undocumented and talk about them as people to be taken care of?
i-470861efe2dc43b9-105	Madam President, I would like As far as I know, all parties in the Swedish Parliament are in favour of regulated immigration. Often it is said, a little sloppy, that whether you are in favour of or against regulated immigration is about whether you want the borders to be open or closed. But what we are discussing in Parliament is what the regulation should look like; what should the legislation look like? There we have very different opinions. What we are discussing today – when it comes to labour migration – is about how and what to do to prevent people from being exploited in the labour market. This is what the government seems to have in focus. Then it is interesting to discuss what works. People who are very insecure in the labour market will not say a single word, Madam President, about what they are exposed to. The risk of deportation that they run is so much worse than the gross exploitation they are subjected to on a daily basis. Knowledge of this is very broad and very unambiguous from a trade union point of view. So what we are talking about is what works well and what doesn't work well. The view of the Left Party on regulated immigration is very different from that of the Swedish Democrats, and I am pleased with that. With regard to labour immigration, we have two clear demands. One is a needs assessment, or needs assessment. We want to know that there is a need for the workforce, so that it is not just the case that the employer needs cheap labour. The second requirement is that there should be a binding work offer that allows the employee to have the promised rights and opportunities satisfied.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-110	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Christina, for the answer, although it did not really answer all my questions. Yes, we definitely have different views on how to regulate ourselves; we will probably have that for a long time to come. In some parts we have similar vision, and in quite a few parts we do not. But my question was really this: point out that the Left Party rules applied to labour immigration. Would it still be right in this situation to call people who remain in the country despite the fact that, under the rules of the Left Party, they are not entitled to it for undocumented people? Would it also be right in this situation to think that you should only be in contact with those who make it easier for these people to stay in the country? Or is it that people can also make mistakes by staying in the country without being entitled to it? It is obvious that it is more difficult for those who are at risk of being expelled from the country to tell or complain about their working conditions. I understand that, too; that goes without saying. At the same time, it is self-evident to me that decisions taken and rules laid down must be complied with. I also want to change them, but until they have changed, I am not going to treat people like there are other rules that apply. The rules that exist must be respected. That is fundamental to the rule of law, I mean. That is why I think it is important to carry out more workplace inspections, preferably in all sectors – as proposed in our reservation – precisely in order to find the wrong conditions. I am aware that it is difficult for that person, but I am also aware that the person who works here, even though he is aware that he has no right to it, is making a mistake. I wonder: Does Christina Raise Larsen mean that people who stay even though they are not entitled to it do nothing wrong at all?
i-470861efe2dc43b9-117	Madam President, I would like Even in Left Party Sweden there will be undocumented. Even with the rules of the Left Party, there will be people who, for various reasons, remain in the country. I would ask all of us to consider the options, Madam President. The alternative is a society with so strong repression that we always know where everyone is. The alternative is a society in which, as soon as the state goes out, people are in some way kept or imprisoned. The alternative is a repression that is so strong that the police should be in the workplace all the time. I have no doubt whatsoever that the Swedish Democrats want a very authoritarian and repressive society. I think that is clear from all the proposals, including the latest proposal that people commit crimes if they help their fellow citizens. It would also mean widespread repression, a comprehensive control of each other in society. I don't want such a society. I want a free and open society. I want our police and legislation to be used for real crimes and not to hunt and control people. I and the Left Party will continue to fight for that. I am convinced that Paula Bieler will do exactly the opposite.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-121	Madam President, I would like Job security gives people security in everyday life. That is the basis for a strong society. Therefore, work and working conditions are central to the lives of the vast majority of people. It shapes us, it gives us opportunities or limits us. Work and the conditions of work are also central to the labour movement and to us Social Democrats. Power relations in the labour market are determined by a number of factors in which the degree of union organisation and the strength of trade unions are important. For us Social Democrats it is obvious that everyone who works in Sweden should have good conditions and a salary on which to live. International trade and openness to other countries are crucial to our prosperity. But freedom of movement within the EU or outside the EU does not mean that it is free to use people who come to Sweden for protection or to work. Competition between companies should be based on skills and not on poor working conditions. Madam President, I would like Insecure employment has gained ground in a number of industries in Sweden. In parts of the labour market, a negative change can be seen. This trend risks accelerating unless the labour market changes and if we do not stop rogue employers' exploitation of undeclared workers who do not have the right to reside in Sweden. In short, we need to keep track of the Swedish labour market. SfU26 Report The extension of the scope for workplace inspections is precisely about this. It is about people's security, and it is about order of the labour market. Madam President, I would like I would like to take the opportunity to support the committee's proposal in the report and the proposal. In Sweden there is some basic regulation of the labour market in legislation. Today, police can carry out checks in the form of search warrant if there is reason to suspect a crime. With the proposed amendment of the law, the police will have the opportunity to carry out spot checks in risk sectors. The Government's purpose is to provide the Police Authority with increased opportunities to carry out workplace inspections. It is simply to prevent employers from hiring people who are not entitled to stay in Sweden. This change is real, important and necessary. The employer who has an alien employee who does not have the right to reside or work in Sweden today has to pay a special fee. Today, the fee to be paid for each employee amounts to half a price base amount. If the infringement has lasted for more than three months, the fee is a full price base amount. The proposals in the proposal relate to doubling the fees. The two proposals – the extension of the right to inspections and the doubling of penalties for rogue employers – will lead to a better order in the Swedish labour market. Madam President, I would like That is why I support the proposal. It creates order and order, it hits the rogue employers and it protects the Swedish model. The Swedish model should be developed, not phased out.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-136	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mathias Tegnér! We basically agree with each other in large parts in this regard. But what we have insisted on in our reservation is really a minor change, but it is not insignificant. I am reading about the proposal text and the text of the report, but I find it difficult to find a justification for rejecting what the Economic Crime Authority has highlighted, that there should be an opportunity to carry out workplace inspections also in sectors other than those that can be identified under the terms of the directive. The Swedish Bar Association states that it sends strange signals to businesses in other industries. I can't find a proper motivation. The closest I can find is that it is said that the most people who are not entitled to reside in the country work in the risk sectors. It is clear that it is risk sectors and that it is where there is the greatest need. However, this does not mean that there is no need to control other sectors. This does not mean that there is no risk of hiring in other sectors as well. This certainly does not answer the concern that you send strange signals when you restrict yourself to certain industries. It sends out a signal that there will be no controls in other sectors, that controls on these sectors will not be valued equally. I would ask for a justification for limiting the possibility of workplace inspections in this way that entire sectors must be identified. It enables individual industries to systematically change sectors in order to avoid control rather than the government simply being able to control via regulatory letters and other things. Of course, the priority should be risk industries, but it should be possible everywhere.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-140	Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats believe, as I said, that order must prevail in the Swedish labour market. This must also prevail in the legislative process. As I see it, it is reasonable to increase the fees for rogue employers who employ people who are not entitled to stay in our country. There we are, too. We also believe that it is reasonable for the police to have increased resources and opportunities to carry out spot checks precisely in risk sectors. But as Paula Bieler and the Swedish Democrats suggest, and also describe as a small change – which is not in fact consistent with the truth, I think – that one should be able to do a stick check on the whole labour market would in principle mean that the police can make searches of the entire Swedish labour market without suspecting crimes. Such a change is unreasonable and disproportionate. What is happening here is that, as a thief at night, important principles that are central to the rule of law are being changed, for example, that there should be reasonable suspicion as a basis for carrying out a search. Then making a change in the whole labour market is quite a risk, and there is nowhere to describe that it would more effectively combat the crime that we actually agree that we want to fight. In short, the reason why we do not agree with what you are proposing is that it does not seem to be effective. On the other hand, it is unreasonable and disproportionate.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-147	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mathias Tegnér, for that answer! It would have been interesting to include it in both the proposal and the report. It is something you can take with you in the future, if you continue to be in a government position: that you should perhaps respond more clearly to referrals and motions. But I still think it is not comprehensive. Yeah, it'll open up for puncture controls everywhere, but you can still control. Of course you should focus and prioritise. At the same time, I think this is important. There are referrals that say you should know what applies. It is still the Authority alone that decides which risk factors are, and it does not need to be advertised anywhere. So it will still happen suddenly in some places. But after a while you will be able to identify where this happens. The only difference I can really see is that there will be an extra delay and opportunities for rogue employers to shift industries. There is also the possibility that it may not be up-to-date as to where risk factors exist in order to limit itself to carrying out controls in the sectors already identified as risk sectors. And it continues to send signals that you control some industries more than others. It is clear that it will have consequential effects. I find it extremely difficult to see how one cannot understand the importance of signal policy, not least after the statements made in recent years when one has begun to understand what certain circumstances are like in any case. My question really remains. No matter how you turn it around, there will be a restriction on the right to escape search, so to speak. It's happening anyway, and it doesn't have to be announced. But the effect of having to take an extra decision within the authority is only a bureaucratic extension decision. It provides an opportunity to move industries, but it is still a possibility that it will happen at any time.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-152	Madam President, I would like I almost thought that Paula Bieler, with emphasic arguments, argued that the government proposal is reasonable. That is exactly the case: we now have the possibility of prioritising the Police Authority. It is the Police Authority that is already today to make that priority. It is linked to existing legislation. What is being done is that the authority as a whole has to decide where priorities are being set. It is one way of preventing arbitrariness from sneaking into this behaviour. This is precisely the reason for which Paula Bieler argued. In practice, this provides the Police Authority with as good a tool as the proposal you have, but this proposal is more legally secure. In short, the Government's proposal is balanced. Your change is unreasonable and disproportionate. The balance that is difficult in this case is about this: on the one hand, the fight against organised crime and order and the labour market must be vigorously pursued. On the other hand, it does not want to give carte blanche to carry out samples throughout the labour market. It is reasonable for the Police Authority as a whole to decide which sectors are risk sectors. Nota bene– I want to say it again – there is no indication that the proposals of the Swedish Democrats are more effective in the fight against organised crime, but it is only disproportionate in its effects.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-156	Madam President, I would like Members of this House! In my opinion, maintenance support is one of the most obvious support in our welfare system. When the relationship between parents does not work or works so badly that one cannot agree on the economy, there must be a safety net, so that this does not affect children. When people who have taken a joint decision to have children, which, with few exceptions at the extreme, includes all parents, no longer want to live together, there are a number of practical and economic things that the parents have to resolve among themselves in order for the situation to as little as possible befall the children or the child. This task solves many parents perfectly well on their own. It is agreed how the children should live, what each parent should fund and so on. This may seem obvious to many, but unfortunately it does not work that way for all parents. Unfortunately, there are many otherwise adult and adult people who do not handle this task. Of course, the causes vary on a case-by-case basis, but the result is ultimately that children are at risk of being squeezed. In the vast majority of cases where the child or children live with only one parent, this parent is a woman — a mother. There are, I would like to point out, of course cases where it is the opposite, but that is not commonplace. It is primarily these parents – single mothers, if you like – that the maintenance allowance is for. Madam President, I would like Of course, being the parent with whom the child lives permanently, the so - called resident parent, does not just present a financial difficulty. It is the resident parent who will draw the whole or at least the lion's share of the load during the child's upbringing in terms of vab, parenting meetings, medical visits, dental visits and so on. There are hundreds of small things that for good and evil affect the living parent's everyday life but also his economy regarding things to be bought in. Therefore, according to the Swedish Democrats, it is important that maintenance support is balanced and thus can provide support for those parents who would otherwise find it difficult to make ends meet. We therefore welcome the age differentiation that is now proposed. However, Madam President, we believe that there is more to be done, particularly on two points. The parents where one parent is a resident parent and the financial middle parents are handled without the Social Insurance Agency's involvement often uses the level of maintenance support as a model for how much the absent parent should pay to the resident parent. In fact, it can be reasonable in cases where the absent parent has a weak economy. Unfortunately, however, these levels are also used in cases where the absent parent has good opportunities to contribute much more. The Swedish Democrats therefore want it to be thoroughly investigated how to increase the financial responsibility of the absent parent in various ways. In short, it is not reasonable for financially vulnerable mothers to have to pursue civil proceedings against fathers who are high-income recipients and who still only contribute with the absolute minimum. Furthermore, the Swedish Democrats have for many years lifted the proposal to index maintenance support, so that it automatically follows the price development in society. We will continue to do so. At regular intervals, the Riksdag and the Government notice that maintenance support has fallen behind price developments and that the amount that was considered reasonable a few years ago is not enough. It follows discussions on tens and hundreds of dollars in order to come up with the same real support as before. I find it difficult to see any sensible arguments for not promptly indexing maintenance support and thus avoiding the risk of it falling behind. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by calling for the Swedish Democrats' reservation to be approved.
i-LCqDYsrMSHeJxgZUmJCRCM	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the Social Security Committee's report 29 on new age differentiation in maintenance support and rejection of the motion. We know that the needs are different for children depending on age and therefore the costs increase as children get older. That is why we have previously introduced age differentiation of maintenance support. Now we propose that it be raised further by SEK 150 per month for children between 11 and 14 years of age and by SEK 350 for children aged 15 or over. The maintenance allowance will then be SEK 1,573 per month for children under the age of 11, SEK 1,723 per month for children over the age of 11 and SEK 2,073 per month when the child is at the age of 15. As a result of this proposal for differentiation and increases in amounts, maintenance support is better suited to the actual costs for children of different ages. The maintenance allowance is intended to ensure that children who have parents who do not live together receive a certain amount of support from the community when a parent who is liable for benefits does not comply with their maintenance obligations. Maintenance allowance is a support for the child. This is one way of ensuring that all children are guaranteed a certain livelihood. It is not a general increase in income, but it is the child's needs that are to be met. The basis is that parents who do not live together should agree on maintenance for their children. It is primarily the parents themselves who already have the financial responsibility for their children. In the first place, parents already have, and take, their own responsibility. Maintenance support is for those children where it does not work. We can all wish that there would be no need for community support at all, but that would be totally devoid of reality. Parents are already encouraged and encouraged to agree today, but maintenance support is a guarantee for the child when it does not work. We should not punish children because parents do not get along, do not take full responsibility or do not have the ability to pay. Here, it is the child's right to be a priority. The maintenance allowance is not income-related, precisely because it is a support for the child. This is in order for all children to be guaranteed a livelihood and to be based on the needs of the child, not those of the parents. For us, it is an important part of the Swedish model that children's needs are at the heart of maintenance support. Children's needs vary with age, which is why this report is so important for children's rights.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-173	Madam President, I would like We shall now turn to a debate on the Social Security Committee's report on a new law on insurance investigations. I would like to begin by calling for the Swedish Democrats' reservation to be approved. Madam President, I would like Today, insurance medical investigations are carried out at the request of Försäkringskassan within the framework of fixed-term agreements between the state and Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils. In order to create coherent legislation on insurance medical investigations and strengthen the protection of insured persons who are to undergo an insurance medical investigation, the Government proposes to introduce a law that provides for the county councils to provide insurance medical investigations at the request of the Social Insurance Agency. The committee and also the Swedish Democrats are largely behind the government's proposal for a law on insurance medical investigations. There are a number of shortcomings today, including uncertainty as to which laws and regulations are applicable. Variations in the country are evident in the number of investigations requested, and there have also been problems of cooperation between county councils. As the Social Security Inspection points out in its referral, it may well be that the insured person feels that it is more secure and neutral to be investigated by health professionals who have the county council as their principal than if it is within the framework of the Social Insurance Fund's activities. Madam President, I would like However, the Swedish Democrats have given a follow-up motion on the proposal with a number of comments. SKL and most county councils, just like us, are concerned that it can mean displacement effects for patients in need of care when l andstingen takes over responsibility. Today, there are unreasonable care queues, and there is a shortage of doctors and other health professionals. We simply have a care in crisis. It is of course a good thing that there is some flexibility in this legislative proposal, for example that county councils can use private alternatives and that there will be compensation for carrying out the investigations. However, we do not believe that anything is being solved that does not only work with a new law. In order to create the conditions for county councils to be able to handle the task of insurance medical investigations, we believe that the government must also seriously address the very serious shortcomings that we currently see in healthcare and invest resources in healthcare. We believe that the compensation promised today to carry out these investigations is not enough. As has already been said, healthcare has serious shortcomings in the form of a guarantee of care that is far from up to date and health professionals who prefer to work in other sectors. The Swedish Democrats have a number of proposals for measures for health care. The working environment and conditions need to be improved, and accessibility needs to be increased. We want to introduce a health guarantee office, fast track to the emergency room, specialist care faster to the elderly and more, even if we are not going into a health debate here. In order to investigate the consequences and effects of the new law, i.e. whether this may involve certain displacement effects, we want it to be evaluated and, if necessary, revised within 24 months. The report states that the government's proposal states that it should evaluate the activities, but we really want to set the time. Madam President, I would like We also believe that it is important that insurance medical investigations really help people to find their work capacity and get adequate help from the relevant authorities or bodies in the healthcare sector. The aim must be that fewer people end up between the chairs and get the help they need. The aim shall not be to finance cost savings. Madam President, I would like We therefore believe that the government should take it more seriously that several consultation bodies criticise the Government's proposal that insurance medical investigations should not count as healthcare. The social security inspection in its referral was of the opinion that it could have consequences for the insured person if insurance medical investigations should not be part of the health care system. They also point out that the sick leave process requires that the assessment should be made with the same awareness, systematics and professionalism as other measures in the healthcare sector, which we agree with. It can also increase legal certainty and the possibility of lodging a complaint on the investigation, if it is part of the healthcare system. LO also points out in the bill that it must appear to the insured person as incomprehensible why the insurance medical investigation should not be considered as healthcare when it is a medical investigation in which diagnosis, functional condition, activity limitations etc. should be reported. We understand what the report says about the complexity of these issues, but what we are proposing is that the government should at least listen to the referee and investigate the impact of the current proposals and the possibility of insurance investigations being counted as healthcare without, for that reason, creating displacement effects for other health services.
i-GrQmy9Y69irhKNDgnNJDJf	Madam President, I would like This report deals with the Government Bill on Insurance Medical Investigations. The Government's proposal makes proposals aimed at creating coherent legislation on insurance medical investigations. The proposal also aims to strengthen the integrity and security of the insured person during these investigations. The proposal contains provisions for the county council to provide insurance medical investigations at the request of Försäkringskassan. The proposal also allows the county councils to conclude an agreement with another county council to carry out the tasks for which they are given responsibility. As Julia Kronlid said, investigations are being conducted today that have been requested by Försäkringskassan within the framework of fixed-term agreements between the State and SKL. When carrying out insurance medical investigations, the Patient Injury Act, the Patient Data Act and the Patient Safety Act shall be applicable as proposed. The studies are proposed to be carried out by certified doctors and other healthcare professionals of a healthcare provider. The Government proposes to introduce a provision clarifying that insurance medical investigations should not constitute healthcare under the Health Care Act. For example, the Health Act contains basic provisions on the objective of health care and care as needed. The person with the greatest need is first in the care. This will be difficult to apply to an activity carrying out insurance medical investigations, since such investigations do not have a health purpose. In addition, the responsibility for insurance medical investigations does not cover those persons whose benefits in kind in Sweden are based on the EU regulation on the coordination of social security systems. EU coordination does not have access to the insurance medical investigations but is still covered by the health systems. The investigations shall provide an assessment of the insured person's functional and activity capacity and shall be compiled in a written statement to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. The Landstingen will receive full cost recovery to carry out the medical investigations as the Social Insurance Agency pays for each investigation carried out, while the state contribution of the Landstingen for health care is not affected. The Act and other amendments made to the new Act are proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2019. The Government intends to evaluate the operation and its effects some time after the law has entered into force. There is therefore no reason to decide when to do so, as suggested in the Swedish Democrats' motion. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the report and reject the motion.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-192	Madam President, I would like Now is the time for the Tax Committee's report 24, which deals with letter 98 Accounting for Tax Expenditure 2018. Tax expenditure is essentially aid resulting from separate rules of tax law. In order to determine whether this is a tax expense and the amount it amounts to, there must be a reference standard for the tax system. It is in the discrepancy between the standard of comparison and the tax rule that tax expenditure arises. The Government reports tax expenditure each year in a letter. The Swedish Democrats have expressed their views on the letter in recent years. We did the same in response to the Swedish National Audit Office's report in this area earlier this year. There is a point to the principle of uniform taxation. Tax expenditure is one way of introducing aid for different purposes through lower taxes rather than grants, with the aim of, for example, achieving desired behaviour or influencing behaviour. The Swedish democrats do not mean that there is by definition something wrong with such support, but we believe that it must also be possible to monitor how the effects of a tax expense change. This in turn requires that the standard of comparison is reasonably stable and that the standard of comparison is based on reasonably similar principles. In the event of such a standard being amended, the change and the reason for it must also be explained. We Swedish democrats have previously asked ourselves in this kind of debate that the financial services that are exempt from VAT are not counted as tax expenditure. This is something the government mentions in the letter, but it is not explained why. Examples of VAT-free financial services are commission, custody fees, transfers and more. By contrast, services such as collection, credit and advisory services are subject to 25 per cent VAT. One could thus say that there are four VAT rates in Sweden. 25% is normal, then 12% on food and more, 6% on books and newspapers and 0% on banking, financial and insurance services. The Swedish National Audit Office stated in its report that tax expenditure needs to be quantified in order for the development of expenditure to be monitored and for it to be examined in the same way as expenditure on appropriations. However, in the 2016 letter, just over one third of the 153 reported balance-affected tax expenditures were not quantified, according to the Swedish National Audit Office. In this year's letter, the government believes that they have not been quantified, but there is no reason why this is so. To make it easy to take on board and understand the tax system, that is to say that the requirement for transparency should be maintained, we believe that the development of tax expenditure should also be accounted for as easily as expenditure on appropriations. As I have indicated in the previous speech, there is often a target for the introduction of a deviation from the standard of comparison, that is, a reason why a certain amount of tax expenditure has been incurred. The Swedish National Audit Office has pointed out that it is not possible to see how tax expenditure in the area of expenditure is linked to the objectives of each area. This also makes it more difficult to assess whether or not the objectives have been achieved, making it more difficult to analyse the effectiveness of the respective measures. The purpose of accounting for tax expenditure is also to compare actual tax rates with the respective standard rates. The report will also provide an answer as to why tax expenditure exists and what problems they are intended to combat in the national economy. The report also has an educational purpose in that the description shows what the taxation of different tax bases looks like in relation to each other. The accounting of tax expenditure also leaves room for analysis of the impact and purpose of tax expenditure. That's the point of departure. However, I believe that accounting can be improved on the socio-economic impact, in particular on tax-subsidised employment and also on income and value-added taxation. Tax-subsidised employment has been abused by both bourgeois and social-democratic-led governments, not least in order to conceal the destructive effects of mass immigration policy. Among other things, it has been about entry-level jobs that have only come to newly arrived immigrants. It has been a start-up job for the long-term unemployed, which has certainly applied to all long-term unemployed, but the stated objective has also been to benefit foreigners at the expense of Swedes – because immigrants are over-represented among the long-term unemployed. During the term of office, new start jobs have been removed from the tax expense statement. I don't know if it's right or wrong in itself, but that kind of analysis definitely needs to be done—that is, what the effects of these different tax-benefited jobs have been. Other measures, such as reduced restaurant VAT, have also had similar aims, on the grounds that immigrants are over-represented in that sector. The Swedish Democrats believe that there is a lack of a clearer compilation of jobs with reduced tax costs for employers when employing groups in society that are considered to have special needs for support into work. It is crucial for the accounting of tax expenditure that this type of tax expenditure is also included in a much more clear and detailed form. The cost-effectiveness of each individual measure should be demonstrated in terms of the number of jobs per tax crown. It is important to be able to weigh it against the expected impact of, for example, generally lower income taxes and employers' contributions. This is strictly necessary in order for the accounts to be reliable and complete with respect to tax expenditure in the service income section and general deductions. Moreover, the presentation and explanation of labour market tax expenditure and tax sanctions is important as part of the process of assessing the socio-economic impact of different types of support functions on the labour market. The impact on employment is also an important aspect of tax expenditure. The Swedish Parliament has stated that the Government should analyse the socio-economic efficiency and employment efficiency of individual tax expenditures. It is positive that the annual letter on tax expenditure will be developed in this respect. The Swedish Democrats want to see a quantified compilation for each individual tax expenditure with a declaration of effect per tax crown. For example, it should be made clear how many jobs have been created as a result of tax expenditure on the reduction of employers' contributions if this has been the purpose of tax expenditure. In this way, both decision-makers and the general public can form a clear and clear view of the cost-effectiveness of each tax expenditure. A standard for tax expenditure is a standard tax rate used as a basis for the deviation of tax expenditure. The Government's letter describes the definitions of such standards as regards the standard for indirect taxation on earned income, value added tax and excise duties. In the case of income tax, however, there is no uniform standard for the tax rate for different categories of income. This means that accounting is perceived as inconsistent. The accounts state that the exceptions to the standard have become a standard in itself, which is not a legitimate reason for avoiding accounting. There is therefore no clear justification for this. Madam President, I would like In the report, the SD has set out how the accounts should be supplemented by justifications for the tax expenditures and sanctions that actually exist. For service income, the accounts should include special adjustments to tax in relation to the national average, including deductions for travel and dual residence, etc. in connection with work. We believe that it is not reasonable that tax expenditure exists only for the sake of the cause, that it does not define the purpose of it or measure whether the purpose is fulfilled. In conclusion, the Swedish Democrats want to see the accounting of tax expenditure developed in order to achieve the greatest possible transparency. In this connection, I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation No 1 in the report.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-209	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2. The purpose of the annual accounting of tax expenditure is to describe deviations from uniform taxation in a given area, such as income tax, capital gains tax or VAT. In order for the picture to be complete, there are also tax expenditures that involve more tax than the norm. These are called tax sanctions. The tax statement is an important component in addition to other information about taxes in the state budget for those who want to know and understand our complex tax system. It can give a picture of what the alternative cost, i.e. increased or reduced tax revenue, would be like if a uniform tax rate were used for the different items. If we want to give an open, transparent and accurate picture of the reality of the situation, we need to start from objective criteria and make an accurate account of each tax expense. In order to do so, a strict standard must be established for different categories of tax expenditure. This may, for example, be 25% VAT or average municipal tax, depending on the tax expenditure involved. The benefits of tax expenditure are described as a socio-economic impact and impact on employment. Unfortunately, there is not much of such analysis in the government's accounts. This is serious because Parliament has called for such a follow-up in any debate of this kind in recent years. The government thus withholds important facts about the effects of tax expenditure on the Swedish people. A good example of this problem is income tax, where there is no standard for the tax rate itself for different categories of income, i.e. service, industry and capital. The government describes the situation as follows:... there is no common standard for the level of taxation applicable to the various income categories of service, capital and economic activity. Different levels of taxation are thus compatible with the norm. ..................................................... The government reports, unsurprisingly, no reason for not keeping a common standard of income tax. If there is no such standard, why not construct one? How hard can it be? My interpretation is that the government is too comfortable to meet Parliament's demands. Madam President, I would like The accounts comprise a total of 175 different tax expenditures. The last time the Government was commissioned by the Riksdag to develop the accounts so that it provides a more objective and comprehensive description of the various tax expenditures and their impact was a year ago. At that time, a developed account of a tax expense was made. This year the number has increased by as much as 100%, i.e. this year it is two tax expenditures out of 175 that have been developed. The government should be able to produce a much more sharp accounting of tax expenditure. The current report is an expression of arrogance towards the Riksdag, as it clearly deviates from the Riksdag's decision. But the government parties are well versed in this sport. Now the government is again submitting a report on tax expenditure that makes it impossible to follow up the effects of the government's policy. As a result, the government is also making democratic dialogue in the tax area more difficult. When Alternatives for Sweden sit at the helm, it will look completely different. Madam President, I would like We can see that the Swedish tax system is complex and impenetrable. This is clearly demonstrated by the government's inability to analyse the impact of tax expenditure. A reform of the tax system is therefore necessary. It must be made easier to understand the tax system and its objectives. The description of these must be clearer and linked to the elements of the tax system involved in each measure. We must have a well-founded objective for taxes and public expenditure. We must also have enough tax revenue to finance the ambitions set out. Finally, we must be able to check that the objectives are achieved and that the effects of different laws are also expected to be achieved. Alternatives for Sweden are working on this whole scale. We will put forward proposals to dismantle several tens of government administrative authorities. Some are closed down, and for some, the business is merged with other authorities. We simply need to remove some unnecessary expenditure, not least pointless bureaucracy. A wide range of measures are also needed to stop the ongoing drainage of welfare systems. Link welfare services to citizenship, and make citizenship in Sweden something you must earn if you are not born in Sweden by Swedish citizens! However, the authorities must also step up their activities so that they are better at ensuring good achievement of their objectives. Finally, the Swedish National Audit Office must be changed up so that the revision of the authorities is significantly more extensive and frequent. We simply need to make better use of our resources and ensure that welfare is used for what it is intended for. We cannot continue to distribute subsidies to hundreds of thousands of people – people who are able to contribute – without demanding a quid pro quo. On the other hand, we have a proposal for a framework for a new tax system aimed at making it more interesting to work and to start and run businesses. It also involves implementing a wide range of simplifications to minimise incentives to engage in tax evasion and evasion. We close the holes by making the system less complex and easier to understand and accept. The basis of this system is to harmonise the tax bases as much as possible. It also gives us broader tax bases that increase tax revenues. Many of our actions are aimed at reducing taxes on labour and increasing indirect taxes on things that may be considered less necessary. Mr President, I would like to This leads us to a flat income tax combined with a high basic deduction. The tax rates are harmonised for different income categories. This means that we completely eliminate the differences in taxation between income from services and capital, which in turn removes the incentives to tighten up income in order to obtain tax advantages. It simply does not pay to tax fraud in Alternatives for Sweden's tax system. Tax evasion should also not be necessary because there will be more money in the wallet for everyone. It creates freedom of choice and opportunity for many more to build their own buffer for the future. VAT also undergoes a change by removing a large number of exemptions from the basic 25% VAT rule. Some parts with reduced VAT remain for basic foods and some hygiene items to make it easier for families with children and people with poorer economic conditions. For entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, a special income law called entrepreneurial wages is introduced. This income category should be selected by the owners of companies with at least one and a few dozen employees, if the owner himself works in his company full-time. The purpose of this is to encourage entrepreneurs to build their companies strong and expand their workforce. Entrepreneurial wages are taxed a few percentage points less than other income because small entrepreneurs often charge a lower salary from their own company than if they were employed with the same jobs. With the introduction of an entrepreneur's salary, the 3:12 rules will be completely abolished. It must also be cheaper to hire, and we are therefore reviewing employers' contributions, in particular the general salary contribution. We want to phase out interest rebates and instead increase incentives for increased private savings, not least private pension savings. A healthy amortisation culture must also be developed. Today, despite the amortisation requirement, we have an extreme and unhealthy approach to the payment of loan debts, not least mortgages. This situation has been created by a frivolousness in the banking system and an undemanding political leadership. The lending institutions must be given greater responsibility for the collateral they used as the basis for their lending. Madam President, I would like Alternatives for Sweden want a tax system that has great credibility among citizens and companies and which is transparent and easy to understand and prevents tax evasion. It takes a considerable amount of time to regulate our taxes in order to achieve a tax system that can do all this. Unfortunately, neither the red-green nor the Alliance have succeeded in taking the greater innovative grips needed to clean up the regulatory flora in a sufficiently thorough way. With Alternatives for Sweden in the driver's seat this will happen.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-231	Madam President, I would like I will talk about this matter. We must not forget that an important part of economic policy and the Swedish model is fiscal policy. Tax policy is primarily intended to finance the common welfare and various social functions. There is much debate in this House about expenditure and tax revenue, but there is also tax expenditure. I'm sure a lot of people are wondering what a tax expense is. It is a deviation from the norm of a tax system, that is to say, a deviation from the rate of origin. One example, Madam President, is VAT, which is 25% in our country, but we have derogations for food, where it is 12%. In other areas, VAT may be 6%. This deviation is a tax expense. Today we are dealing with the letter from the government analysing these tax expenditures. They shall be analysed in the same way as other expenditure. This year's letter analyses two individual tax expenditures: a general reduction in own contribution and a tax reduction for ROT work. The effects of the fuel change reform are also reviewed. The presentation of tax expenditure began with the introduction of the budget process in the mid-1990s. The tax system is currently very complex, with different specific rules, exemptions, deductions and tax deductions. The 1990-91 tax reform has brought simplification, but since then the tax system has become more and more complex. Not least bourgeois representatives have been good at introducing tax deductions and special rules. The Government intends to clarify and explain to a greater extent significant changes in tax expenditure forecasts in relation to previous forecasts. The Government is constantly examining both new and existing tax expenditures against the tax policy guidelines and the budgetary framework. Sometimes bourgeois parties criticise how accounting is calculated. This is, of course, a way to shift the focus of the debate. History is that there was a huge deficit in the state budget when we took over government power. With the help of savings and tax increases, we have now reached a large surplus in central government finances. The underlying idea of the previous government was that, regardless of the social problems, they can only be solved by reducing taxes. We have removed inefficient tax exemptions such as employers' contributions for young people. Contrary to what the bourgeois parties said, that youth unemployment would increase, it has fallen drastically. Of course, we have also increased some taxes, but we had to do so in order to get things right in the state budget. Now we again have surpluses in the state finances. Today's government has changed direction. We have moved from tax cuts to more people in work. There are more than 250 000 people working now than when the previous government ruled. We have moved away from inaction in climate and environmental issues, and we have stopped messing with pensioners. We are about to phase out the entire penalty tax on pensioners. Madam President, I would like The tax ratio, i.e. the share of taxes in gross domestic product, is currently 43.2 per cent. In the 1990s it was 52 per cent, and in the last year of the first term of office when Reinfeldt ruled, the tax rate was 45.5 per cent. So it is now 43.2 percent. This is not exactly how the tax debate looks when you read the newspapers. Our party does not intend to drastically change the share of taxes in GDP. In conclusion, Madam President, a new tax system is needed. As I said, there is a system of deduction in the tax system, so it is clear that a review is needed. But the basis for this must, of course, be that we must be able to finance school, health care and care for the elderly, and we must be able to finance security through police and defence. The tax debate would also benefit from considering that regulatory simplifications must nevertheless be balanced against control needs in order to counter unfair competition, economic crime, tax offences and terrorist financing. Indeed, we Social Democrats have also reduced the tax. We should have reduced the pensioner's tax in 2015, but that tax cut the Swedish democrats blew the country's pensioners on. We came back and took a first step in 2016, and we have soon removed the tax gap between old-age pensioners and employees. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal.
i-GeLRp7RN7gK8LKceY1Tk72	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister Ibrahim Baylan, Minister Lena Hallengren, Minister Peter Eriksson and Minister Anna Ekström. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Government of Ibrahim Baylan answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-245	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Ibrahim Baylan. Technology is moving forward in the energy sector and is creating development. With the sun, opportunities and interest will increase. It is gratifying to see development and potential. That's a good thing. However, the Swedish National Audit Office has given the government heavy criticism in the area of solar electricity subsidies. It is about 1 billion a year that the government is now spending on subsidies. The Swedish National Audit Office is clear about what is missing: socio-economic analysis, cost-effectiveness and state financial analysis. Does the Government, given the Swedish National Audit Office's massive criticism, consider it reasonable to use SEK 1 billion of tax funds for subsidies without setting targets for the business?
i-470861efe2dc43b9-249	Mr President, I would like to As the honourable Member says, there is a very rapid development of technology in the energy sector. It is in many ways very pleasing. I believe that for the first time we can see that perhaps we can solve the energy problems of humanity without destroying the environment and the climate. Central to this is the cost shift for solar cells. A number of investment banks expect solar cells to be the cheapest way to produce electricity in 80% of the world's countries in the future and to be the main source of the housing sector. Unfortunately, the situation in Sweden is not so, but we still have a higher cost, due to the uneven solar radiation. Since we still want Sweden to be at the forefront, it is reasonable that we help, and that is why we have twenty-doubled the investment support. It's something we're proud of, and I think it's also something that's very good for Sweden in the future.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-251	Mr President, I would like to What the Swedish National Audit Office points out is a lack of climate benefit per krona, i.e. the cost-effectiveness demanded by the entire electricity market, a lack of analysis of long-term fiscal effects and a lack of socio-economic analysis, and a lack of adequate information to the Riksdag. Is it really reasonable, then, for 1 billion in solar electricity subsidies?
i-470861efe2dc43b9-252	Mr President, I would like to First of all, it is investment aid. So there is no subsidy in this way. We have a number of other support too. Yes, that's reasonable, because we want to be at the forefront. If you look at just one factor, the most cost-effective thing is unfortunately often to keep what you have. But the countries that have followed this path, such as the United Kingdom, find that when old production goes out of time, it will be extremely expensive and often very late to do something about it. I want Sweden to be at the forefront. That's why we're doing this.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-255	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Ibrahim Baylan. Almost five years ago, the law that grants persons residing in Sweden without permission the right to health care and dental care that cannot be tolerated was introduced. But there are also six county councils that offer complete health care and dental care for these people. Since the law was introduced, the costs for this group have doubled. In 2014, the cost was 90 million. Now it has increased to more than 197 million. The number of people who live hidden has also increased during the period. Prior to the introduction of the law, the number was estimated at 35 000. Today the figure is about 50 000. This law means that health care and dental care are heavily subsidised. A doctor's appointment costs 50 kroner. Treatment given after referral costs SEK 25.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-260	Mr President, I would like to This is basically a balancing act. On the one hand, we shall have strict application of the right to asylum and residence permits. Indeed, this government has had that during this term of office. We've changed the policy. On the other hand, there are also humanistic elements to this. It goes without saying that the position that those who do not have the right to reside in the country should leave the country applies. We have also increased our efforts to ensure that this is the case. On the other hand, the kind of health care we are talking about, which cannot be tolerated, is provided on purely humanitarian grounds. The alternative would be to say that people who are in acute distress and who are even at risk of dying should not have care. No, I don't think that's where we're going. In addition, Sweden is a very rich country that is fully capable of handling both of these two quantities at the same time.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-263	Mr President, I would like to As I said before, six county councils offer complete dental care and medical care. This may apply to persons who have either entered the country illegally or who have been refused an asylum application and have chosen not to comply with Swedish law but instead to remain. Does the Minister think that it is reasonable for these people to receive the benefit of paying SEK 50 for a root canal, for example, while a Swedish pensioner has to pay 4,000 for the same treatment?
i-470861efe2dc43b9-265	Mr President, I would like to As I said, this court was introduced because it is basically about health care and dental care that cannot stand up. Then some county councils have wanted to go further. These are decisions that have been made locally. I believe that the vast majority of people in our country feel that you should help if there is an acute danger to life and limb, and that is exactly what this law is basically about.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-268	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for the Elderly Lena Hallengren and is about the security of the elderly, as you Social Democrats talk about and which is very important. Yesterday it was reported at Aktuellt that those who have care for the elderly in their home from the municipality may receive an average of 16 people. It doesn't make sense. And the number is rising. This creates very much insecurity. You from the Social Democrats want to ban the private alternatives, where there are far fewer staff, no more than a handful. Why do you not want to give older people the freedom of choice and the opportunity to choose a different option from the public one?
i-470861efe2dc43b9-271	Mr President, I would like to I would like to comment on this issue as Minister rather than discuss Socialist proposals. I would like to emphasise that. When it comes to older people having the right to feel secure, it is based on many different things. It is, of course, about the financial security of older people. It is also about the security of the existence of accommodation, home care and so on, and that the resources that we devote are sufficient. We are prioritising this before major tax cuts. I think Solveig Zander is pretty good-looking for the private business. I think that there are less good as well as good actors both within the municipal and within the private sector. The fact that it would be the case that the private sector has a small number of visitors to the home service is a picture that I do not recognize. On the other hand, it is very desirable that we get there. It is clear that no one wants unknown people to cross the threshold to help you with things that are both intimate and go into privacy. However, it is important to continue working to ensure that resources are sufficient, that schedules are laid down and that conditions are in place to have fewer in the home.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-274	Mr President, I would like to Does the Minister mean, then, that the resources would not be sufficient if there were more private alternatives than they are today and opportunities to choose? Freedom of choice is extremely important for the elderly. It's about being able to decide who's going to come home to you when you get older. This is a matter of extreme urgency. But you want to ban the possibility of profit in welfare, which companies must have. That is why you are also banning private alternatives.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-275	Mr President, I would like to Freedom of choice is essential for the individual – to be able to choose which individuals come home to the individual and cross the threshold. But to have actors who do not mainly put the individual's best in the centre but also have a need and a goal to make a profit, we think is unwise. That is also why the Riksdag will have the opportunity to take a position on this next week. Then it is up to all parties to confess color. Is it supposed to be a profit hunt in welfare? Is it the intention to make money and make a profit on the old rather than to use the resources that we are devoting to the old ones?
i-470861efe2dc43b9-276	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Lena Hallengren. It's about shelters, which we both affirm. But my question is about what we can do in concrete terms to speed up the construction and creation of these accommodations. The government has written a legislative referral on aid-assessed shelters. Then we get team number two, because this law already exists in the Social Services Act. I don't know if another team is a better starting point for this. The second is an incentive grant. But they're a little bit like spitting a thirsty one in your throat. 119 000 apartments are needed. There's enough for about 7,000.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-279	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Westerholm for a very important question. It is true that we are already seeing shelters in some parts of the country today. But getting a little more speed when it comes to assisted shelters is a little bit different. Let us continue these discussions now that there is a legislative referral to see how we can do this in the best possible way. It is quite clear that the alternatives today are to a large extent that you stay at home with home help or that you live in special housing when you have a great need for care. We really do not have a range of shelters that people can get after aid assessment based on loneliness and social isolation. Let me also say something about the investment grants. Investment grants are not intended in any case to cover the cost of building specific housing. They have declined over a long period of years. It is important that we break this. But they help to build homes.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-281	Mr President, I would like to I would like to see some of this money spent on a national study on why municipalities are building and why they are not building. What obstacles stand in the way? But it would also be good to see what value it has had for the health economy and for the individual to live in shelter rather than remain as a prisoner in his own home. We need facts to convince the municipalities to get them moving.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-282	Mr President, I would like to I just want to emphasise how important it is that we have an individual perspective. Not all elderly people want to live at home, in an assisted shelter or in a special accommodation. It depends on who you are and what the situation otherwise looks like. As far as investment aid is concerned and why we are not building is a matter for the Minister of Housing. Nevertheless, investment aid will help to facilitate the large investment of a particular dwelling or shelter if it is possible to apply for investment aid of perhaps 10 to 15 per cent of the cost.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-284	Mr President, I would like to I address my question to the Minister for Housing. Prices of dwellings have risen by nearly 600 per cent in recent years. So there are sharp increases in prices that we have seen. At the same time, the construction boom is folding. Private companies do not want to build so much that prices will fall in the long term. To counteract this, the Left Party and the Government have agreed on investment aid that is a veritable success. 11,000 cheap rental apartments have been built using it. But it needs to be built 80,000 a year. The companies are now saying that they can't build more, even though prices are super high, because they don't want prices to go down.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-288	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. Building more housing is definitely an urgent issue. Exactly how many are needed is quite unclear. But we know that there is a major housing shortage, and it will have to be built to a large extent also in the future. I am pleased that much more housing is being built today than a few years ago. But we need to build even more. An acute problem right now is that you have built a little too much of a particular type of housing. It is to a large extent expensive residential apartments that have been built, especially here in the Stockholm region. Now there's been too much of it. I think we should continue to invest in investment aid. We need to switch to building more rental housing at reasonable cost. Here, the major challenge for municipalities in particular is to start planning for more rental dwellings instead of more flats.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-291	Mr President, I would like to I agree with Peter Eriksson's analysis that this is what needs to happen. But my concern is that the shareholders of the large private companies are not prepared to risk their money to build the volumes we want and at the prices and rents we want. Can it not be wise, then, to do as a study now proposes, for example, that the state should enter cheap government loans so that it does not need equity but that it can be built anyway?
i-470861efe2dc43b9-293	Mr President, I would like to I think we can look at the funding issues. We have an investigation that looks at the financing issues in the case of weak markets. We have these around the country in smaller municipalities. We should also look at the issues of funding for young people, who we know need to enter the market but are now finding it difficult to obtain bank loans. There's a lot of things you can do. But the main issue must be to concentrate on building more rental apartments.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-295	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Senior Secretary. The elderly have paid a high price for the government's political inaction. They are most affected by the sharp increase in care queues. Every ten elderly people in an emergency room now have to wait more than eight hours. Dementia sufferers were affected when the government immediately, when it took office, budgeted funds of almost half a billion to a national dementia plan. And in the wake of the shortage of retirement homes, isolation and insecurity have become commonplace for many. A comprehensive reform programme is now needed, not least so that more elderly people can be accommodated in a retirement home. I am convinced that it requires a new government that prioritises the needs of older people throughout its term of office. My question to the Minister for the Elderly is: should the Social Democrats, on the assumption, have renewed confidence in the position of government, should the elderly expect a new equally passive mandate on the issues of the elderly?
i-470861efe2dc43b9-300	Mr President, I would like to It is approaching elections; it is quite obvious. I think there is reason to sum up this term of office. Jakob Forssmed does it in a way, and I do it in a completely different way. I want to describe all the initiatives that have been made through the Swedish Demens register and through all the training efforts. Much is about – or how, Jakob Forssmed – that those who work in elderly care, in home care and in special housing have knowledge when they meet people with dementia. Then they need both knowledge and competence. But they also need more colleagues. 2 billion has been extremely important, and it has become 5 000 more year-olds. This continues in combination with BPSD registers used by more and more municipalities. There are a few municipalities that do not use it today. The national dementia strategy will also be extremely important and that it does not only exist at national level, but gradually becomes a reality at local level, so that all heads of unit, managers and politicians know that it is in this direction that we are going and that it is knowledge and research that we are basing care and efforts on.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-301	Mr President, I would like to I note that there are many shortcomings in the care of the elderly. A person who sums it up in a third way, in addition to my and Lena Hallengren's, is Lena Hallengren's representative Åsa Regnér. She has said in an interview after she left office two months ago that she is disappointed, that she wishes that the government had given higher priority to older people and that she had done more for older people. Is she wrong?
i-470861efe2dc43b9-302	Mr President, I would like to I think we should all examine ourselves a little bit about the question of where the elderly are in the political debate. It is not a question for individuals, although I myself think it is extremely urgent that I am a minister of the elderly, but it is actually an important question for us to ask. What are our priorities, and what issues are we discussing? I have no other wish, and I am happy to meet Jakob in the future when it comes to welfare issues and focus on the group older people. It is not least about resources that are to stay in care for the elderly and home care.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-304	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Anna Ekström. The fact that Sweden has the most liberal system in the world in terms of profit-making activities in the school sector has been known for a long time, and we are a few who have warned of the consequences of the unbridled pursuit of profit. Now, after a stick check, the Swedish National Agency for Education has requested that Practical Gymnasiet AB pay back funds that have been wrongly allocated to them. Last Tuesday, the Institute for Business Research published a study by Professor Jonas Vlachos showing that it is clear when comparing grades with results on national tests that the free school groups give joy certificates. All primary school groups consistently score higher than municipal schools after taking into account the results of the national tests. Schools belonging to the International English School and the School of Knowledge are particularly distinguished in this regard. Therefore, I would like to ask the Government: What does the Government think of these results? And how do we know that what came out of the individual stick check that was done at Practical Gymnasiet AB has not happened before?
i-470861efe2dc43b9-308	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a very important question, Niklas Karlsson! As the questioner says, we have a system that stands out. There are no other countries in the world, at least not in the Western world, that allow an unlimited distribution of profits from funds that are actually tax money to be used in this case of school and education. I am very upset when I read the report from the Institute for Enterprise Research. Grades should reflect the student's knowledge and not which school the student has attended, and when the grades are clearly set so differently depending on the type of school it is and the operating form it is about, I get very worried. I am also concerned that respect for the rating system can be undermined, which can have very serious consequences. We Social Democrats, together with the Green Party and in cooperation with the Left Party, have gone to Parliament with a proposal to limit the right to withdraw unlimited profits. We will see how the Riksdag decides on this matter.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-312	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. Nevertheless, it is clear that the joy certificates aim to make the school attractive and to get new students. It is known that new students generate more profits for the group and thus in the shareholders' pockets. If you apply the logic of the market, you also get the results of the market. Now we go to Parliament with a proposal to limit the pursuit of profit in welfare. We know that there is a majority against the proposal. Therefore, I would like to ask: What can the government do to counteract grade inflation when the right-wing majority of Parliament refuses to take responsibility?
i-470861efe2dc43b9-315	Mr President, I would like to As the honourable Member says, the teacher who gives a little too high a grade gets a happy principal, a happy headman, a happy owner, happy parents and happy students. In fact, the teacher who follows the rules and gives a fair grade risks having a tough life in today's school system. In order to make it easier for the teachers who are doing the right thing, the Government, with the help of the Riksdag, has changed the rules so that the results of the national tests will be more supportive of the grading.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-318	Mr President, I would like to As a young woman previously active in the construction industry, I know that my industry has some challenges, especially in the area of gender equality. Some of the challenges came to the public after the metoo call Last nail in the coffin. After the petition, Minister of Housing Peter Eriksson called the construction industry for a conversation about a power collection against this behavior. A meeting was held on 30 November and a letter of intent was signed. In it we can read, among other things: a lot of women, and also many men, choose to leave the construction industry. Not because it's heavy, but because they're faced with sexism and macho attitudes. This is devastating for the whole industry. I can only agree-- it's devastating. It is devastating for the entire development of society.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-321	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. The question is very topical and still alive. I can inform you that the companies and industry actors who attended the first meeting we had, at the Ministry of Industry before Christmas, have been very active during this period. We had a meeting the other day where we discussed what has been done during this time and what the situation looks like. I am pleased to announce that there has been a great deal of activity and commitment in the industry to overcome the very serious problems that have been present for a long time in the construction phase. I don't think you're going to solve this quickly, but it's quite obvious that you take it seriously both on the management side and on the floor – and that you say it in a completely different way than before when things happen. I am therefore quite pleased with this process and happy that we have had a follow-up meeting where I could see that new things are happening.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-324	Mr President, I would like to It sounds reassuring and good that things happen. For me and many others, Metoo was only the start of a work that we now need to do both politically and in the industry. The construction industry is traditionally a very male-dominated industry, and I am quite convinced that we would see a natural change in this if there were more women in the industry. How does the government work to make it more women and more equal in the construction industry?
i-470861efe2dc43b9-326	Mr President, I would like to It was nice that I got that question too. We have adopted a target of at least 25% of new recruits in the future being women. It is far from the situation today, but there are now companies in the industry that have adopted the goal that 50% of those who work there should be women. So a lot is happening. I have been to a number of companies that are now engaged and bringing in women even though they have not attended the trainings from the beginning.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-328	Mr President, I would like to During this term of office, the appointment policy has failed. Former party leaders of the Social Democrats have become coordinators, and former party leaders of the Environmental Party have become investigators. But the edge is not really there. It is an absolute decay when the government appoints present members of parliament to lead investigations. Yesterday, a Socialist chairman of a committee was given an investigative task, and today an environmental-partisan member is given the task of chairing the Environment Target Committee. Where is this really going to end? Are we heading towards a time when ministers appoint each other to be investigators?
i-470861efe2dc43b9-330	Mr President, I would like to If I am to perceive the last not as rhetoric but as a question, the answer is: well, it is probably very difficult to see it, because an investigation is by definition and according to law an authority. If a minister leads an authority, it really risks leading to so-called ministerial rule, so it is not usually preferable. However, I have actually done so during this term of office! The Energy Commission is one such example, where both members of parliament from all parties and I as a minister sat with. We did this so that we could agree on a common energy policy, and that is basically what it is all about: making good proposals. In the case of the Energy Commission, it led to the first agreement in the history of a common energy policy, which will be of great benefit to the country. I am therefore not entirely sure that it was a disadvantage for Members of Parliament from all parties to participate – quite the opposite.
i-TtfpMoqJ6nkPWXjNwbUGv5	Mr President, I would like to Åsa Romson, Maria Wetterstrand, Lise Nordin, Håkan Wåhlstedt, Anders Wallner and Emma Nohrén – what do these people really have in common? Looking out into the world, we see that the only party that can be compared to the Social Democrats in terms of long-term ownership of power is the Partido Revolucionario Institucional in Mexico. That party lost power because of friendship corruption. The government should think about that.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-333	Mr President, I would like to I think the honourable Member should be a little careful about throwing so many stones in glass houses. If we look at the previous government, we can see that it was not at all unusual for it to appoint members of parliament, including from its own parties, as investigators. Often it is about competent people who understand the political system and who know how to work to get proposals that can be made and later laws from outside. Thus, this type of work has also been done by bourgeois governments in the past.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-335	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Ibrahim Baylan. In the last week, attention has been paid to the fact that the proportion of people who have received their sickness benefit has increased significantly. In 2014, the share was 1.2 per cent or nearly 5,900 persons. Last year the figure had risen to 5.8 per cent or nearly 26 600 people. This large increase, despite the fact that the law has not been amended, as well as large local variations, has led the Social Security Inspectorate to question whether this is really legally certain. My question to Minister Baylan is: could it be that this sharp and rapid increase in the number of sickness benefits withdrawn has its background in the government's need for savings to finance very costly migration?
i-470861efe2dc43b9-339	Mr President, I would like to In the world of Sweden's democrats, there is nothing that cannot be linked to immigration and migration. There is no evil that cannot be traced to us who have immigrated. In fact, since 2014, there have been large surpluses in central government finances because we have had a strong labour market policy. Today, surpluses are so large that we have the lowest public debt since 1977. As Julia Kronlid says, we have received reports that the number of insured persons has become far too large. We're gonna have a health insurance that we can trust. I believe that there is reason to look through it, not least that it has been extremely uneven between different counties. However, this has very little to do with migration. In fact, we have resources, thanks to a labour market policy that has made people have a job to go to and thus be able to pay taxes, and thanks to large surpluses in public finances.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-343	Mr President, I would like to Then I wonder if Minister Ibrahim Baylan is aware that Magdalena Andersson, his own Minister of Finance, said at a press conference on 22 October 2015: We must work with more countries receiving asylum seekers. We must also curb the development of costs in other areas, such as sick leave and assistance payments. Mr President, I would like to Is it possible to interpret this in any other way than that the government prioritises funding costly migration over sustainable and legally secure health insurance?
i-470861efe2dc43b9-345	Mr President, I would like to We had a completely different situation in 2015. And the government's policy has been that we should receive solidarity throughout the European Union, precisely because it was mainly Sweden, Germany and Austria that took responsibility for migration policy. When we took over government power, we also had a rather sharp increase in health insurance. I don't think anyone wants people to get sick leave. We want them to be healthy and be able to get back to work. We've invested a lot of resources. That is clearly not quite enough. We will continue that work. It's supposed to be a health insurance you can trust.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-348	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Post and Telecom Agency recently presented its report Follow-up to the Government's Broadband Strategy 2018. It was alarming reading, to say the least, about broadband roll-out in our country. The problem was the conditions for building fibre along smaller roads where the National Transport Agency manages the road area. The consequences of this may be that high-level broadband targets are not met, according to the Swedish Post and Telecom Authority. Smaller urban and rural areas in particular are affected. PTS's forecast goes downwards, not upward. In many different contexts, I and the Center Party have addressed and made visible the conflict between energetic broadband builders and government authorities. Nothing has happened until today when the government decided to finally get together on this. I would therefore like to ask Peter Eriksson: what is the concrete meaning of the government's decision? And how is the difference perceived?
i-470861efe2dc43b9-352	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. Today, as I said, we have decided to give new assignments to Trafikverket to develop new methods that are more effective in placing and landing fibre broadband in the road structure. I have understood that for a long time there has been resistance from the Swedish Transport Administration to building fibre in rural areas. There have been fears that it could damage road construction. It's been serious. We have had long and many discussions. I have spoken personally to the Director-General, and there has been a lot of criticism from companies in the industry. But now we have given Trafikverket a clear mandate to support the Government's broadband strategy and work in accordance with it in the future. There's a big difference.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-356	Mr President, I would like to Well, I noted that the government has taken decisions, following very strong pressure from Parliament, the House, the Center Party and others. That's good. It is now six to eight months' waiting time for a village team or a community that wants to build because it is a non-transparent and very slow process. You miss digging season, you miss state subsidies. But what is the concrete difference between the decision taken by the government and those who want to build and bind the country together?
i-470861efe2dc43b9-359	Mr President, I would like to The concrete difference should be that we have authorities who are more actively prioritising the issue of broadband. The Swedish Transport Agency is also a greater priority, and more energy is being put into developing efficient and smart solutions for building broadband in the road bank, also in the gravel roads in the countryside and in sparsely populated areas around Sweden. I therefore believe that this is a major step forward.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-362	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Hallengren. Several questions here today have been about the condition of care for the elderly. In fact, the government has taken a number of initiatives to improve care for the elderly. The latest in the line are proposals for a dementia strategy. We in Parliament have also decided on a simplified aid assessment, and on the table we will soon have a bill on aid-assessed shelters. At the end of the day, however, quality and improvements in care for the elderly are about providing the staff with the conditions to provide the elderly with good care and care. There are a number of problems here. It is about employment relationships, work environment and working conditions at all. Some investments have been made in more staff in care for the elderly, and in several places the number of full-time jobs has increased. However, it is still difficult to recruit and retain staff and to maintain skills.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-367	Mr President, I would like to AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson would like to thank you very much for addressing this question. The working environment is crucial for us to be able to meet demographic developments with an increasing number of people who are getting older and who are also getting sick. Dementia, as everyone knows, is an old-age disease. If you are to increase staffing and attractiveness throughout the industry, it is about full-time jobs instead of part-time jobs. It is a question of really spending the resources allocated – EUR 2 billion each year during the mandate – on staff, on their skills, on more colleagues and on those who work really working on what they are competent for. I also find it remarkable that more people do not make a link to the over-recovery of 4.7 billion in the case of care for the elderly. That's a lot of money. There could have been many more colleagues and much training of it. And it could of course have been both more home help hours and more special accommodations.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-371	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. Now it seems that a majority in the Riksdag, with the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats, will vote in favour of unlimited withdrawals of profits in the care of the elderly.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-374	Mr President, I would like to Nothing is clear until it's done, or decided until it's settled. Next week, when all Members are to press the button, you have to decide whether or not there are unlimited winnings and continued winnings. It is quite clear, however, that if we jointly allocate tax resources to not least elderly care, it is extremely important that those resources not only stay there but are translated into housing, staff, education and quality.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-376	Mr President, I would like to My question is to Minister of Education Anna Ekström. It concerns the importance of getting a good education, which cannot be stressed enough. Today, it is almost only if you have completed upper secondary education that you can get a job and get into the Swedish labour market. We see that the school results are not to the fullest. 80 percent of young people pass comprehensive school and can go to upper secondary school, but 20 percent actually cannot. 4 – 8 per cent of Swedish children, adolescents and adults have dyslexia. You often notice it very early, already in preschool, and there are more boys than girls who have dyslexia. Often they do not get the tools and support they need. They often find it difficult to complete their education because of this, but it has absolutely nothing to do with intelligence.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-380	Mr President, I would like to Learning to read, write and count early in life is very important. Having a good command of the Swedish language, to write, read and speak, is crucial for passing school, doing well in working life and also doing well as a responsible citizen of society. These are issues on which the government has placed enormous emphasis. We have invested large resources in a large project within the national school development programmes called the Reading Lift, which becomes very important. We have also, as recently as yesterday, received a decision here in Parliament on a read-write-count guarantee. I can assure you that the reading-write-count guarantee will also be important for children who have dyslexia and their parents, because the sooner they discover this kind of problem, as it is for the children, the sooner you can make sure that there are aids available. The legislation is clear: Children and students should receive the necessary support. What is needed is resources.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-383	Mr President, I would like to Yes, exactly, the legislation is clear. But in my region and my municipality, Örebro, from which I come, you can wait as long as two years to get a dyslexia inquiry. This means that it is two years that you get to go to school without feeling that you are on the track; you come two years after. At the same time, in our region, it is SEK 56 million that our health care centres do in loss. Our publicly operated health centres lose SEK 56 million. That would be enough for many dyslexia investigations.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-384	Mr President, I would like to It is quite clear to me that the electoral movement that we are facing will be about very important choices. A choice is whether to invest our common resources in tax cuts or to invest effectively in our common welfare. The children who have dyslexia would certainly benefit if we were to invest the money in substantial contributions to welfare. It is also about access to trained staff. Here, too, it will be extremely important that we really ensure that we have sufficient resources to ensure that we have available staff.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-387	Mr President, I would like to My question is of a general political nature. SVT has carried out an audit of the corruption at the Swedish embassies. Unfortunately, the results have not been what we had hoped for. Visas have been stolen and then sold, visas have been issued to people who have no reason to get visas and people have bribed themselves to better queue places in the embassies. As a result, the Swedish National Audit Office has done a solid job of reviewing the protection against corruption in Swedish embassies, and they have made extensive criticisms of the government's work. In addition, the Embassy in Jordan, in connection with the disclosures, has darkened by secreting parts of emails that have been requested. This is totally unacceptable, so my question is quite simple: why has the government not taken sufficient measures to prevent this?
i-470861efe2dc43b9-392	Mr President, I would like to This is a very important question raised by Markus Wiechel. Corruption is one of the worst cancer-like behaviors you can have in a society. I was born in such a society. If corruption prevails in a society, there will never be any development, but there will be mistrust of the social body. It is therefore so extremely important that we in Sweden fight corruption, wherever we find it. Unfortunately, there are not only in our embassies, but there are also examples here in Sweden. The government, not least through the Minister for Civil Affairs, has taken a large number of measures both to increase transparency and to combat corruption where we see it. We have sometimes also moved Directors-General and even fired them when we have seen corruption taking place. This work will continue with the government, because corruption must never be accepted.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-395	Mr President, I would like to I agree with the Minister that corruption is terrible. It should not happen, and it is shameful that it occurs in Swedish embassies. That is precisely why I would like to return to the question: why has the government not done enough to prevent this? The Swedish National Audit Office has been very clear. And is it really reasonable for the foreign authorities to investigate themselves, as they do today?
i-470861efe2dc43b9-397	Mr President, I would like to The government, not least the Minister of Civil Affairs responsible for the State Administration, has worked actively throughout its term of office to combat corruption, including signs of corruption, in our state administration in Swedish society. It is a work that I think we must never stop ever, because it will never be a situation where we can say that corruption is eradicated for time and eternity, and that also applies to our overseas missions. We will continue to fight this for the very simple reason that it will never get a foothold, whether it is in embassies or here in the country.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-400	Mr President, I would like to Yesterday I was contacted by Ebbas's mother. Ebba lives in my municipality of residence in Skaraborg and is 23 years old. She has a disability that makes her need personal assistance in order to communicate with her surroundings. Ebba communicates using words, characters, images and text. Being able to communicate is essential for Ebba to be able to shop, pick up her medicine, convey where she wants to go, call, read her mail and more. When the time comes to make a new application for assistance, Ebba will not be entitled to the assistance she has had, as the right to receive assistance for communication as a basic need has deteriorated significantly. I would like the responsible Minister of State, Mr Hallengren, to respond to the concerns that many people now feel about the savings that the government has already made within the LSS.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-403	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Annika Eclund, for the opportunity, once again, to try to find out a very complex issue, which LSS is. It is a fact that the law has not changed but that judgments are given and that the Social Insurance Agency then interprets judgments in a way that changes people's everyday lives very quickly. All of you sitting in this House as Members of Parliament and legislators know that it normally takes time to amend legislation for a reason. We want to be sure what the consequences are. Are we prepared for the consequences? How can we prevent or respond to these? The problem we have today is that politics is not even involved in cases where it is a case of judgments changing case law. As regards the saving requirements referred to by Annika Eclund, it has been in directives for an investigation. But there have been no savings requirements at Försäkringskassan.
i-Ct16pucqqsNyWvrBKcxM5o	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The statement Ebba has received is clear. The hours she has had will not be allowed to continue. Now it sounds like the government has removed the saving requirement in LSS, that there is no saving requirement, which many have also been tricked into believing. The truth is that the government has already made savings of EUR 4 billion per year and that it is actually additional savings that are supposed to be made. The forecast is also very low.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-411	Mr President, I would like to I think Annika Eclund really knows that there are no saving requirements for assistance towards Försäkringskassan. If we want to change the application of assistance, we can change the legislation. I'm waiting for the investigation that's due in December. And I look forward to a dialogue with the parties in Parliament, so that we get clearer and more predictable legislation that really corresponds to the intentions that it should have. I would also like to reassure those who are worried about saying that there are no two-year trials. I hope that calms the contact who had contacted you, Annika.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-414	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister Baylan. Segregation is one of our biggest societal challenges. It exists throughout the country but is most visible in our metropolitan regions and is visible in everything from income and access to power to longevity and health. In Stockholm, Sweden's most segregated region, the gap between the poor and the rich has increased for a long time. The Social Democratic model of society is based on an equal society that holds together, and I know that during these four years the government has made several major efforts to reduce segregation. At the same time, there is a constant picture of nothing happening. My question is therefore: when will we see results?
i-470861efe2dc43b9-418	Mr President, I would like to I thank Alexandra Völker for an important question. If you read the newspapers and see the developments that have been over a 20-year period, there is every reason to be worried. We see that there are clear differences and gaps in not least the employment rate, disposable income and school outcomes – everything that plays a major role in being able to integrate and have their own power in everyday life. Although we see that the differences are still large, we have begun to see the effect of government policy. The government has changed the policy from short-termism and what gives headlines to long-termness, early intervention and what research and proven activities show works. Mr President, I would like to Today we see a sharp rise in the employment rate, an increase in disposable income and an increase in the percentage of pupils eligible for upper secondary school in our segregated suburbs. We also see increased confidence in the public. That's good. However, there are still too many differences, which is why I am not entirely satisfied.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-422	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. It is positive that much is happening in the right direction, but, as the Minister says, there is still a long way to go.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-425	Mr President, I would like to We'll continue the good work. Together with the Left Party, we have just launched a major initiative where there is the greatest need, and it will be expanded to 2.5 billion per year. In addition, we are currently developing a long-term plan to continue to counteract segregation. I hope to be able to have a dialogue with the opposition so that we can reach broad agreement across the block border on long-term efforts, for precisely short-termism has been a problem.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-427	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Lena Hallengren. The government is happy to tell you how well Sweden is doing and what reform space there is. But it is obvious that it does not apply to everyone. People with disabilities and their families get to experience what it means not to be able to live like others. Today, eight out of ten people applying for personal assistance receive a refusal from the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, and approximately 1 400 people have lost the right to personal assistance. Those who have lost their assistance in recent years really need to get their rights back. On their behalf, I ask not whether but when the Government intends to do something about this.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-431	Mr President, I would like to I thank Bengt Eliasson for the question. Let me emphasise that it is not a question of economics. People get rid of their assistance because of judgments, changes in case law and ambiguities between principals. A person who is not granted State assistance shall not be without assistance, support or assistance. The municipality is then referred to, and the municipality is then obliged to contact the individual. This clarification has recently been made by the government. I would appreciate it if we could have a discussion in the future on how to clarify the legislation so that we politicians do not end up in the situation of surprise, because case law and people's everyday lives are changing rapidly. Whether you are affected or not, I know that many people walk around with a lump in their stomachs and think about how it will be in the future.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-435	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. Alarms continue to do away with people who suddenly lose their vital support. Daily we hear about it. The Government's colleagues often go out in the media with warning about changing laws that are drifting away in a number of different areas very quickly. At the same time, the government is sitting fairly still waiting for an investigation that has recently received new directives. The question remains: when will something be done about this?
i-470861efe2dc43b9-439	Mr President, I would like to Let me stress that there are no two-year trials, that waiting time and preparedness should be included in the basic need and that the government is not sitting still in the boat but has set up an investigation to be completed in December. No one would have been happier than me if the previous government had set up an investigation, which was now ready, ready to change and update the legislation and make it more clear and predictable. This applies not least to the relationship between the two principals. The individual should not be affected by whether it is the state or the municipality that the responsibility lands with, but that is the case today.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-443	Mr President, I would like to There are many of us who are pleased that we have adopted, in broad agreement, the world's perhaps most ambitious climate targets. It's binding. We shall be a green example by reducing our emissions while continuing to increase growth. However, we are not a green pioneer if we reduce our own emissions by moving them to other countries. We also agreed on this important principle in the Environmental Objectives Committee. Now there are worrying signals that this is exactly what is happening because of the government's recent air tax. When Atlantic flights move from Arlanda to Kastrup, we have not reduced global emissions, but we have only moved Swedish emissions to Denmark. Does Minister Baylan consider that the current aviation tax is compatible with the principle of not reducing Swedish emissions by moving them?
i-470861efe2dc43b9-447	Mr President, I would like to I thank Maria Stenergard. Yes, it is a strength that we agree on the goals. It would also have been a strength if, as in the Energy Agreement, we had also agreed on the measures. It would have had a great effect, not least for those who are going to make investments. Investments are often made for too long, and predictability is needed. But now we don't agree. The government has introduced a flight tax, and the aim is to reduce emissions. I think everyone understands that we cannot continue as we have done. When the sea ice melts and the Gulf Stream weakens, something must be done. As the honourable Member says, we are now hearing that some companies intend to move traffic. However, one of these companies went out today and said that it would open three new lines in Sweden. I am therefore not sure that the transfer decision was about the airline tax, but it may have to do with the fact that these routes have poor profitability and that they are therefore combined with more. It is a reasonable business-economic decision on which I have no comments.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-451	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. I, too, regret that we do not agree on how to achieve the important climate objectives. But here we really do differ. While we are demanding efficiency because we care about the climate, the Social Democrats and the Green Party are, unfortunately, much more concerned with symbols. Those who lose out are the climate and the taxpayers.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-453	Mr President, I would like to Such is the policy of the Moderates. It supports long-term goals but is against every proposed climate action. That doesn't make any sense. If you really want to do something about climate change and that Sweden should stand at the front, both by making our life here more sustainable and by selling that technology to other countries, you have to do something. Then you cannot say no to everything that is being proposed.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-454	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Ibrahim Baylan. Sweden shall be fossil-free in 2045. It is a great challenge, but it is quite possible with progressive policies. If we are to succeed, we need a comprehensive conversion of our fuels and energy sources. Here biogas can play an important role. Swedish biogas is under pressure today because our imports of biogas from Denmark in particular have increased in recent years. It benefits from Denmark's production aid and Sweden's consumption aid. It is gratifying that the government has increased the support for the production of biogas by 270 million during this year. But does the Government have more suggestions on how to secure biogas production in Sweden?
i-470861efe2dc43b9-458	Mr President, I would like to Biogas is one of the things that can change the transport sector but also many other parts of the energy sector. We have had a fantastic development with many investments until quite recently, when some entrepreneurs came up with the brilliant idea – from their perspective – to exploit both Sweden's and Denmark's public support at the same time and thus gain a competitive advantage. This has created an unreasonable situation in southern Sweden. It was against this background that the government proposed a short-term extra support in the spring budget that we gave to Parliament. It was also against this background that the government today decided to set up an investigation with the chairman of the Riksdag Environment and Agriculture Committee Åsa Westlund as investigator, to redesign our system so that there will be a level playing field between foreign and Swedish biogas producers.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-461	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. It is gratifying that we are taking this issue seriously. If we are to turn into a fossil-free society, we need to act. If we look a little further ahead, Minister: Do we see something behind the next horizon that we should do in the biogas area if we are to develop biogas production?
i-470861efe2dc43b9-464	Mr President, I would like to If we look at what it looks like in Europe, we see that almost all countries have different types of production aid. Sweden has had a consumption subsidy and was therefore the alien bird. This has been quite a long time because there have been no other support in our vicinity. But now we have it, which is why we need to look at it. I do not want to say here and now how this is going to land, but it is quite clear that we must have a system that goes together with that of other countries and ensure that Swedish biogas production is given a boost.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-467	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for giving me the opportunity to ask the Minister for Housing! It is a well-known fact that housing construction is halting. There are a lot of reasons for this, but the format here is too small to discuss it. The criticism of Lantmäteriet and the long processing times continue to flow in. Although I know that the agency is working on and improving its work, there is reason for criticism of the system. Last time it was SKL that in a letter to the government both wants to see a changed role for Lantmäteriet and a development towards more municipal surveying authorities than the 39 that exist today. Swedish Municipalities and County Councils want the government to clarify the conditions for these and state the reasons for none of the seven municipalities that have applied to establish municipal surveying activities are granted it. My question to Peter Eriksson is the same as SKL's: does he see municipal surveying as a resource, and does he agree with Lena Micko that Lantmäteriet's role as a central authority needs to be strengthened?
i-470861efe2dc43b9-472	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. I agree that it has been a problem that the timing of Lantmäteriet's decisions has been far too long. I have been very committed to this. We have replaced most of the board, we have a new Director General and we have set clear and tougher demands for Lantmäteriet to shorten the processing times. Recently, we have had clear results in the right direction. I am pleased with the developments lately, but there is still more to be done. The municipal surveyors are, of course, a resource, just like the state, but we have received an investigation that shows that the organisation to have both municipal and state is not the most effective. We need to review this structure in general.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-475	Mr President, I would like to I interpret the Minister for Housing's answer as saying that there are no plans whatsoever to review surveying in the sense that there are more alternative surveying to be applied to. This underlines SKL's concern that it does not see the future even of the municipal surveying activities that exist today, since it does not grant new permits or express a will direction for these activities, which are very important for our community building.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-477	Mr President, I would like to The major problem for Lantmäteriet has been a lack of skills and resources. It is no solution to do more municipal surveying, for there will be no more surveyors in this way. The investment we make in training more surveyors is the long-term correct solution for organising the business in a more efficient way. The problem is that with more municipal surveying, the total resource for the common and other municipalities is actually reduced. We will have a long-term problem if we continue along that path.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-480	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Mr Hallengren. Older people are a group in Sweden that is feeling worse and worse. Loneliness, anxiety, anxiety and mental illness are growing, and that is certainly not good. We were told a few months ago that suicide rates for older men are increasing significantly in Sweden. Many elderly people who are really ill are trapped alone in their own home, and home care staff do not always have the right skills to cope with the problems. The elderly are getting more and more anti-anxiety medi ciner. Every fourth receives ten or more medicines, and the emergency departments are filled with various side effects. This is a roundabout for elderly sick people who are unworthy and not good but who are unfortunately increasing in scale.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-484	Mr President, I would like to Without saying in any way that Katarina Brännström gives a false picture, I would say that Sweden is the world's best country to age in. We grow older and stay healthy longer. An increasing number of older people live long, socially active and rich lives, but this does not prevent them from suffering from mental illness. Katarina is right that those who do are becoming more and more numerous. It is about meeting this with knowledge to the extent that mental illness is about diagnoses, i.e. different types of depressions and so on. I mean, you have to start a lot sooner. It is the government's view that it is necessary to work in different ways on the social content of our peoples' movements and pensioners' organisations, with day activities and meeting places, and to ensure that older people have the opportunity to participate in social activities and that civil society is encouraged to provide these opportunities. If it is a situation where the elderly are in a particular accommodation, it is a little different, and I will get back to it.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-488	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. I also think that Sweden is the best country for those who are healthy and alert, as long as you are when you are old. Then I think it goes pretty fast downhill. Unfortunately, today we have home care staff who, in many cases, lack competence and who do not receive proper and adequate training to care for those who are increasingly ill, who have many medicines and who are cared for at home, where fairly advanced health care takes place. I think we need to get to grips with this.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-492	Mr President, I would like to I would like to emphasise the need to invest in staff and their skills and ability to meet people who both suffer from mental illness and who need clean medical care. Then it is important that we have the resources to invest in education. It is positive that the government has presented so-called professional packages that allow us to easily train many more nurses and nurses, so that no one who is uneducated or unauthorized will meet our elderly, either in home care or in special accommodations.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-495	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask a question to Minister of Housing Peter Eriksson. The fact that many homes are being built is, of course, necessary to overcome the housing shortage in Sweden. But also mobility in the housing market is one of the pieces of the puzzle that must fall into place to solve the housing shortage. The mobility of the rental stock is much greater than in its own stock. More people can move to work and study if we have a wide range of rental apartments. Therefore, it is gratifying that in 2017 more than 10,000 new rental apartments with reasonable rents have been built using investment aid. The levels of investment aid have now been adjusted. How does the Minister expect this to affect the construction of rental apartments?
i-470861efe2dc43b9-499	Mr President, I would like to We recently made an adjustment to the rules for this – that is correct. This means that it becomes a little more attractive to build new rental apartments with the state investment support, for example in Stockholm, Uppsala and larger cities, where prices are slightly higher than otherwise. I have received signals from both Uppsala and Stockholm that these municipalities will use investment support in the future. Here we have a difference that is not insignificant. We also introduced a new rule that made it easier and cheaper to build on one floor or two. In Sweden there are 1 million rental dwellings at two or three-storey level. Support can also be provided to afford, for example, the construction of an elevator, which increases accessibility.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-501	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We agree that it is very important that more rental apartments are built. In addition to investment aid, I wonder what more measures Peter Eriksson thinks would be needed to increase the construction of rental apartments in Sweden. Is the government already taking more measures?
i-470861efe2dc43b9-503	Mr President, I would like to In general, I think we need to look at the whole tax issue in this area, but we will have to wait until after the election as it stands now. I have recently had an investigation submitted to me proposing a new Housing Security Act. It would clarify and tighten the requirements for municipalities to take responsibility for housing also for different categories and groups in the municipality. I think that might be an important question.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-506	Mr President, I would like to I want to ask Lena Hallengren my question. I have visited a number of retirement homes in Malmö, and I have also visited home care. Throughout is that the staff do a very good job. The elderly are very pleased with the service they receive. This concerns the basic needs. You get your food, you get washed, you get help with cleaning and so on. But what is constantly being called for is the edge of gold. The same message was given to me by the staff. They want nothing more than for the elderly to have a golden edge of life and not just to have the basic needs met. It's just one such thing as sitting down and having coffee and talking to the elderly. But the staff have a busy schedule, and it is very difficult to make time for this. My question to the Minister is: how do we move forward with the vision of the elderly getting a golden edge on life?
i-470861efe2dc43b9-509	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Hillevi Larsson, for the question! Thanks also for visiting many retirement homes and home care! They too need to feel that we are seeing them and that there are many of us who are involved in older people's policies in general and in the care of the elderly in particular. It looks very different depending on where you are and who you visit. There are staff who work hard. But it depends on how you invest in the municipality, and how you use the 2 billion per year that has existed during the term of office. Of course, they have worked in different ways with social activities, content, activities and meeting points. I visit many accommodations and home help services where they feel that this gold border is there. But we certainly have more to do. I am particularly concerned about how we face the future. More and more people are getting older. We really need to give welfare priority over major tax cuts so that today's employees have more colleagues and better working conditions.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-512	Mr President, I would like to It is absolutely right that things look different. It is also different how bad the elderly are. When many are very bad, you may not be able to take part in social activities. One really needs to personalise and ensure that the elderly are there to the extent that they are able to do so. Much is also about investing in staff. Then it gets time and energy to bet on the older ones. I am therefore very pleased that the government is working on this. I believe, moreover, that we must remove the excess profits in welfare. That money will go to the elderly and to the staff.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-514	Mr President, I would like to Many people who live in a particular accommodation have very real care needs. How much they can do is individual, but in general you can say that they can do much less. That is why we must prevent and ensure that they arrive in good time. We need to make sure that the resources we jointly allocate are really used for more staff, for trained staff and for both actions and activities that make the elderly feel neither alone nor isolated. They must experience that years after retirement, they are also a time for rejoicing.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-517	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Eriksson. We have heard earlier today that the effects of the housing crisis have become clear. Boverket's latest forecast states that housing construction in Sweden will fall. Construction subsidies have become a fiasco. 5% has been paid out. I think they built a tenancy in Stockholm. This is not just a big city problem, Mr President, but it applies around the country. If you google on the word, you can find construction stops in every other city, for example in Umeå. There HSB says that they had a good sale of their tenant-ownership rights, but when the government introduced amortisation requirements, requirements on how much you can borrow and the whole package of abrupt sales. From having sold a number of apartments a week you now sell someone a month. The CEO of HSB Norr says that a lot of people in the construction industry are waiting for what's going to happen. This is a reasonable question to ask the Minister for Housing: Are you satisfied with the decisions that you have made and that have led to a stoppage in Sweden?
i-470861efe2dc43b9-520	Mr President, I would like to Construction stops are a completely incorrect description of the situation in Sweden today. We are building more – twice as much – than was done in the last parliamentary term. According to all forecasts, we will continue to do so in the coming years. On the other hand, there has been a major change in the area of tenant-ownership in the Stockholm region in particular. That's right. This is worrying, but it is a result of the fact that for some time there has been a very strong focus on expensive residential apartments in Stockholm. This has then spread a little outward, but in most parts of Sweden it is being built for the full. In addition, more attention is paid to rental housing. This must also be done in the Stockholm region in the future if you are to meet the housing supply needs and be able to reduce the housing shortage in the country.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-522	Mr President, I would like to Umeå is not a suburb of Stockholm but is well away from it. When Peter Eriksson flies home to Norrbotten, he flies over Umeå. It was Umeå that I mentioned in my example, and it was in Umeå that they asked what the government intends to do. It is now a quick stop, construction stop, in Umeå. It is referred to that it is the government's policy that has caused it to stop construction in Umeå and in many other locations in Sweden.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-525	Mr President, I would like to As I said last time, there is no stoppage in Umeå, nor in the rest of Sweden and not even in Stockholm. Much is being built in both Umeå and Stockholm, and it will continue to be built. However, there is a need for a greater readjustment. You can't keep running into the same ball. Not everyone can build new flats for several million SEK. More attention needs to be paid to needs. Not everyone has been able to do it yet, but you have to learn it.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-526	Mr President, I would like to We are debating today Accounting for tax expenditure 2018, the Sku24 report of the Committee on Taxation. This is an important area to examine. It is a very large part – about 210 billion, a little depending on how you count. Tax expenditure can be a good instrument, but because it is a deviation from the norm, it can sometimes make it more complicated or less clear. Limiting problems can sometimes also arise. In the letter, the Government carried out a specific analysis of the ROT deduction. It has now been around for some ten years, and the situation is now very different from it when it was introduced. The analysis shows that the reduction from 50 to 30 per cent was socio-economically justified. We have gained much higher employment and entered a boom where the construction has been very large. We now have a situation where there is actually a shortage of labour in the construction sector. Tax expenditure on the ROT deduction is now around 10 billion. It would have been about 16 billion if the reduction had not been made. I also think it is an essential question of the impact this has, that is, how many fewer homes have been built as a result of the fact that we have had the ROT deduction in a situation where there has been a shortage of labour. Of course, this is not an easy question to answer, but it is a legitimate and relevant question that we may need to consider. I think that the ROT deduction is very good in a recession, where one might have to gasp in order to get employment and that sort of thing going. But it is not self-evident that it should be the same forever. Interest rebates are not included in the report, but I think it is well worth mentioning, not least in the discussion about the housing situation. It is a high cost, and as debt increases, unless something is done, it will increase. I have raised this issue many times before in this House. Six out of eight parties advocate doing something about the interest rebates, and I hope that the two largest parties in the future can also realise that we need to do something. We must do so for reasons of stability and in order to achieve greater mobility in the housing market than we do today, so that we can make better use of the existing housing stock. Mr President, I would like to A few weeks ago, the Society of Nature Protection produced a report on fossil subsidies. It called on the political parties to give priority to this for the forthcoming term of office. What we want, of course, is for fossil subsidies to be reduced or phased out. On behalf of the Green Party, we have said that we would like to do so. We do not believe that everything can be done in one term of office, but we want to move in that direction. At the seminar where the Nature Conservation Association presented the report, several parties wanted to do so, but yesterday we could see that the Moderates wanted to go in the opposite direction. The party leader Kristersson said that there was not a ready-made alliance proposal yet, but his picture was that it would become one. I would like a comment from the present bourgeois parties, the Center Party and the Liberals, and to hear whether they are prepared to go in that direction. I think that would be unfortunate. The travel allowance is another example of a subsidy that is not good in its current form. The current design is a subsidy for commuting by car. The study that reviews this, as well as the directives on which the investigation is based, wants it to be a transport-neutral deduction that does not unilaterally favour motorism in the way it does today. This is an issue on which there has been broad agreement, and when the investigation is completed, I hope that the parties that have supported this in the Environmental Objectives Committee and the Rural Committee will be able to stand up for us to make a change in this. I think that would be very good. Finally, Mr President, I note that even in this debate there does not seem to be any liberals involved. I think it's a bit of a pity. I have long wanted to ask the question why the Liberals want to make tax cuts of SEK 24 billion aimed at people who have a monthly salary of over SEK 38 000 per month. How does lowering taxes of this magnitude make society better? That's what the police department costs all over the country. However, I would like to take this issue to a forthcoming debate in which the Liberals are taking part.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-537	Mr President, I would like to The letter we are discussing today is partly a technical review of the taxes we will be paying in a coming year. But the letter is much more important than that. Through the letter, the Government has the opportunity to present an analysis of the tax changes proposed with a view to increasing both legitimacy and transparency as well as understanding of the taxes levied. It is an opportunity for the government to contribute to an informed discussion and debate among the public, journalists and various decision-makers. The need for transparency and transparency in public finances cannot be stressed enough. Well-founded, relevant and easily accessible information is central in all policy areas, especially in the tax area. The importance of good accounting to the Riksdag of tax expenditure has also been highlighted in several reviews by the Swedish National Audit Office and the Swedish Financial Policy Council, which has also commented on the principles for accounting for tax expenditure. Accounting for tax expenditure in 2018, which we are discussing today, is a letter that calls for reflection. Since the major reform in the 1990s, the Swedish tax system has resulted in a considerable and growing number of exceptions. In addition, regulations from the EU have meant further changes to the Swedish tax system. The tax system needs to be simplified, which is why we in the Center Party have proposed a broad tax reform. The time is indeed ripe. Sweden needs a tax reform for more people in jobs, increased competitiveness and secure welfare. The tax system must be better designed to meet the problems facing Sweden. The strong taxation of labour in Sweden – it is at the end of the world – exacerbates the division of labour markets and slows prosperity and growth. There is therefore a need to re-establish a thorough tax reform with a more transparent, simpler and more uniform system. The most important thing a tax reform has to achieve is to reduce taxes on labour, increase competitiveness and secure the future financing of welfare. Lower taxes on labour are essential for more people to be able to work. If more people have a job to go to, tax revenues and welfare will also increase. Today's tax system favours a rapidly increasing housing loan with an overheated housing market in many cities, as we heard in Parliament's Question Time just now. There is a risk that a downturn will hit Sweden's economy hard. A broad agreement is therefore needed in which housing taxation is reviewed in order to promote long-term stability. Mr President, I would like to There is an announcement that the Government considers to be met by the letter. The notice states that the government should fully analyse the socio-economic efficiency and employment impact of individual tax expenditure in its forthcoming letters. The declared purpose of the Riksdag with the accounting of tax expenditure is to enable tax expenditure to be examined in the same way as expenditure on appropriations. It should therefore be possible to quantify the costs of the exemptions in the tax system. It is to the benefit of the entire government's work, for the entire work on the state budget, to continuously develop work on the socio-economic efficiency and employment effects of tax expenditure. That is why I am concerned about the attitude of the government on this issue. The Government notes that although it would be desirable to make a quantitative assessment of the contribution of a tax expense to improved socio-economic efficiency, this is often not practicable, while a qualitative assessment is often possible. The next reasonable step should then be to initiate work to review how we can obtain data and methods for better quantitative analyses. Mr President, I would like to As self-evident as the fact that reduced taxes must be analysed, it is that increased taxes must also be analysed. Among other things, the Institute of Economic Affairs has clearly pointed out that increased marginal taxes on certain groups may reduce labour supply, which may ultimately lead to an overestimation of the public financial impact of the measures. The Public Employment Service has pointed out the unfortunate fact that the government, in its income tax memos, lacks discussion and consideration of the impact on labour market development that the proposed tax changes will of course lead to. Representatives of the Center Party and others have brought this forward in the past. However, when we have a government that devotes most of its term of office to raising taxes in most areas, it can stand to be repeated, as I have done now. Rasmus Ling addressed a question to liberals. I consider myself to be a social liberal, so I am that way. The Center Party is a Green Liberal Party. I believe that Rasmus Ling said that taxes should not be reduced for those who earn over $35,000. Sweden may have the highest marginal tax in the world. It's 60%. Of what you earn in that income class and if you earn more, you can keep 40 percent. It's pretty much the highest in the world. It should be restored to perhaps 50% according to the agreement we had with the tax reform in the 1990s. Indeed, taxes should be reduced in the long term even on the margin for those who earn over $35,000.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-552	Mr President, I would like to Staffan Danielsson believes he is liberal and green. I take it the Center Party is more liberal than the Green Party. The Center Party has tried to appear as the green voice of the Alliance. But what we are now going to do is to counter the reforms in the environmental field that we have carried out. We want to make drastic cuts to the environmental budget that we have raised. We even doubled it. Staffan Danielsson wants to slaughter it with billions of dollars. The Center Party is going to an election to abolish the airline tax imposed. So we want to make it cheaper to fly in a situation where we have the hottest month of May since at least the 40s and see climate change around the world. In the area by area, one can see that the environmental reforms that we have put forward want to counteract. I have a very simple question concerning the matter that we are discussing. This applies to the fossil subsidies that exist. Is the Center Party prepared to reduce fossil subsidies during the next term of office, and if so, what?
i-470861efe2dc43b9-556	Mr President, I would like to There were a lot of questions. Both we and the Green Party see green as a positive value-loaded word. Then we can have different views on social liberal and liberal. I'm very much in favour of that. The Green Party has been so in the past, but perhaps it is no longer as much, but instead is more in the red direction. That's how you can evolve. The Center and the Alliance carried out major environmental reforms over eight years of alliance. Renewable energy grew very strongly. Unfortunately, there are now wind power, biogas and ethanol and rammers and even decreasing during a government in which the Green Party is part. The whole thing is really mixed. There's a lot to be said about the airline tax. It is important for Sweden and the world that we can fly, shop and meet each other. Laying down routes so that they start to occur in Denmark and Norway is not very smart for Sweden. You always have to consider this. We agree to reduce fossil fuels and, for example, to move more and more towards renewable fuels. However, before these exist throughout the country, we must balance, for example, the petrol tax so that it is at a reasonable level. The Green Party is often very much in the front line.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-560	Mr President, I would like to The Green Party has not gone in any red direction. We are not liberals either, but we are a green party and we are very safe in it. It would be nice if the Center Party were to go more that way. But that is not the development we have seen at least in the last decade. As for the airline tax and how it is along with it in other countries, Norway, as you mention, has a flight tax. In the event that Norwegian chooses to locate new routes to Oslo, the air tax that exists does not appear to be a problem. I was just asking you a question. I would like an answer to that. At the seminar I attended that the Swedish Society for Nature Conservation organised, Danielsson's party colleague Rickard Nordin spoke about this. I'd like to hear if I get the same answer. Is the Center Party prepared to reduce fossil subsidies in the forthcoming term of office and, if so, what?
i-470861efe2dc43b9-563	Mr President, I would like to I can answer briefly to the specific question. The center party's focus, which Rickard Nordin very well highlighted, is to reduce and phase out fossil fuels and energy. This means, of course, that fossil subsidies will be dropped as and when. But it must be done at a realistic and realistic pace. What I think Rasmus Ling and I agree very well on, although we can discuss how well we succeeded during our respective government periods, is to really switch Sweden's and the world's energy systems to resources based on renewables.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-565	Mr President, I would like to Today we are discussing accounting for tax expenditure. I had intended to start by addressing the purpose of this, but many previous speakers have highlighted precisely the purpose of the report and its importance. I would therefore like to spend my time discussing what kind of tax policy the Left Party wants to see. It has a direct connection to what we are discussing here today. The Left Party wants a good, equal and fair tax policy in order to finance the common welfare – a tax policy where you get based on needs and contribute based on capabilities. Unfortunately, it is not the policy that has been pursued under the alliance government, and it is not the policy that is being pursued today to the extent that the Left Party wants to see and that the Swedish people deserve. There are too large socio-economic gaps between people in today's Sweden. While very many are forced to turn and turn every penny day after day, month after month and year after year, others can buy their third luxury boat, travel in their private jets, buy luxury apartments in New York or Paris and save their billions in a bank in a tax haven to avoid paying their share of the tax. Mr President, I would like to These people are also usually the ones who complain unconcerned about the poor, the vulnerable and the immigrants and make them scapegoats for the so-called social collapse. It is the venture capitalists who, through their lobbyists and public relations companies, have in a few decades managed to shift power from the people to the growing financial sector. Decisions that could be taken by governments and parliaments in the past are now enshrined in trade agreements, and paid lobbyists and PR companies often have more power over the agenda than parties and elected politicians have. This is a development that we are seeing today in the economic policies of this House among many others in the world. This means that policies in almost all countries have had to follow the same pattern. We see privatisations, more precarious jobs, inhumane asylum policies, racism and Nazism normalising, predatory behaviour on the environment, reduced taxes for the rich and greater risks for the rest of us. It is a policy that attacks the most vulnerable and watches when people worry about whether they can afford the rent, new rubber boots for the children or the electricity bill. It is a policy that attacks those who lie down and whose dream of a holiday week elsewhere can be unattainable. At the same time, homeowners and those who own a tenant-owner are given the opportunity to use costly subsidies to renovate their homes both within and outside the country's borders. This subsidy, which is called a deduction, Mr President, usually does not apply to those of us who live in rental apartments. It is an unequal and unfair economic policy, in which those who live in rental law pay in practice via the tax for the possibility of homeowners retrieving the bathroom here at home or in the summer house in France. It's not right. It's not fair. That is not how we should use taxpayers' money. Mr President, I would like to The Left Party wants to reduce the influence of the financial sector on our societies. The enormous values created by our work will be invested in socially beneficial things such as innovations, the transition to an ecologically sustainable society and reduced working hours. Instead of simply aiming at the highest possible return, state-owned companies should be actively used in the conversion efforts to increase equality and equality and strengthen democracy. That is why we are pursuing a policy that benefits the people and not large banks or venture capitalists. We want to increase people's influence over their own life situation and create greater opportunities for popular influence over social development. We know that democratic societies are better societies. When popular rule is eroded, it not only means worse decisions, but it also damages confidence in democracy. Mr President, I would like to There is a need for a greater and more equal redistribution policy in this country, and the Left Party is today the only guarantor of it. We must increase the taxation of capital if we are to reduce economic disparities. We must do this, because we all know that the cohesion and trust are being eroded in societies where the divides are growing. The design of the tax system, together with social security and welfare services, is central to a country's distributional policy ambitions. A Euromod study has analysed the redistributive effects of tax systems in the EU. The report has 1999 and 2008 as the reference year and covers countries' direct taxes. The analysis shows that during this period Sweden has gone from one of the countries whose tax systems are most favourable to having the least redistributive tax system in the EU. This is remarkable. This is a development that we do not want to see in Sweden but that is happening. What has caused this development? Let us review some of the major changes in the tax area. In 2005, both inheritance and gift taxes were abolished, in 2007 the property tax was abolished and in 2008 the property tax was abolished. These changes are likely to make a significant contribution to the significant reduction in the levelling-off effects of the Swedish tax system. Sweden is today one of the very few countries that have neither taxes on inheritances, gifts nor fortunes nor a property tax that is linked to the value of taxation. Mr President, I would like to To these changes should be added, among other things, that the corporate tax rate has been reduced in several steps and that the tax on earned income has been reduced by over SEK 100 billion through the various job tax deductions. When we negotiate with the government, economic equality is central. But it is also a question of expanding and strengthening welfare, that women's living conditions should be at the centre and that there should be investment for more people in work. We also want to defend the Swedish model. It is a model based on the parties putting wages on the labour market and concluding agreements. It is a model of a tax-funded general welfare that requires a relatively high tax charge. It contains income-based insurance, such as unemployment insurance and health insurance. We believe that this model is not only worth defending but that we should also work towards its development and improvement. In a modern society, the fight against inequality must be central. Tax evasion and tax evasion are a major cause of inequality in society, and they undermine the Swedish model and the morale of society. A small group in society considers themselves to be outside the community and responsible for the common welfare. So they take their money to tax havens in order to avoid contributing to cancer care, children's school or elderly care. We are all very well aware of this, because there have been Members of Parliament, including in the Tax Committee, who have slipped from the tax and who are included in the Panama documents. But we are never talking about this, but we are spending all our energy and time on inciting the people about the need to take away the livelihood support of poor people and the sick, and we are putting these groups against refugees fleeing for their lives. If we are really worried about social collapse and about the Swedish model, perhaps we should start talking about the real cause of social collapse, namely tax fraud. Finally, Mr President: for us, economic policy is about giving hope and confidence in the future, about ensuring that economic policy is used to smooth out income inequalities, about giving all children a good start in life, about ensuring that welfare is expanded and strengthened, about giving people the opportunity to take a job and about investing to create new jobs. We want to build a sustainable country where climate and environment are at the centre. After all, we have many tasks that need to be done, so let's get them done! An important part of this is, of course, to create a more equal redistribution policy. We know that more equal societies are better societies for all – not just for the few rich.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-585	Mr President, I would like to Transparency, transparency and efficiency are the basis for credible and legitimate tax collection. Every day millions of people contribute in hard work with taxes to the common. People's willingness to contribute, to do the right thing and to be part of the common requires that tax funds be used and used effectively. It can never be undermined or abandoned. Transparency and transparency are part of coping with efficiency. This includes, not least, what the largest household expenditure is spent on, how it is used and, not least, how it is also followed up. Mr President, I would like to This is the now mandatory accounting of tax expenditure to the Riksdag, which is why it is also important. It is important for legitimacy and for the effectiveness of careful analysis and monitoring of tax collection also in a broader perspective in order to keep state finances in order, and it is important to strengthen the Swedish economy. Mr President, I would like to However, this government seems to settle down and be pleased that Parliament has called for this a number of times. However, we believe that, in the run-up to future important decisions, it is important that clear evidence should be provided to highlight the impact and impact assessments in order to be able to be closely and better followed up in this way. In this area, this government needs to improve. Mr President, I would like to Since the start of the Red Green Government, the tax burden has only increased. Taxes on jobs and growth have increased by over 60 billion over the last three and a half years. Taxes have been increased for SMEs and deteriorated at RUT and ROT, and more pay the state income tax: police, customs, teachers and nurses. It is important to change this and to ensure that we do not continue to increase tax collection. Will this government be happy with these tax increases? Probably not. That's why a change of power is required. The Alliance parties are prepared to shoulder that responsibility, but also, to give an example, to ensure that no more teachers, nurses, police officers and customs officers pay government income tax. Mr President, I would like to The letter is an important prerequisite for continuing to examine what the Government and the Riksdag set as a goal and as a means. The letter could therefore be an even more important part of the work ahead. The demand for forecasts, impact assessments and greater transparency come not only from the Riksdag, but also from many other sources. That is why this discussion is important, not only in this house but, of course, in our society as such. Transparency and openness are fundamental elements of our democracy. Everyone's access to relevant information is a prerequisite for democratic scrutiny. As the Red-Green Government has reduced transparency, we must reverse this trend. We do that best, Mr President, by having a good discussion over the next 100 days about the time to change government – for greater transparency and efficiency, but also, of course, to follow up on tax collection and its benefits and effects. Mr President, I would like to For us, quality in welfare is the most important thing. For us, the benefits and efficiency of welfare are the most important – hence the importance of returning to Parliament with better data. It can be done by an alliance-led government after the autumn elections.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-596	Madam President, I would like As is well known, the Swedish Democrats are sceptical about several of the priorities in development policy that both this and the previous government have made. We are opposed to aid efforts that have demonstrably been made – and in some cases still go to – groups that pursue completely different objectives from those pursued by this House. We therefore welcome the application of a coherent approach to multilateral development cooperation. We also agree with the OECD-DAC assessment that such a strategy provides a good basis for future decision-making. We are pleased that, with this letter, the Government is moving forward with the earlier announcement of the Riksdag. However, the problem remains that it is sometimes difficult to get an overview of multilateral aid through a letter alone. We believe that it is extremely important to continue with and develop a high level of transparency in aid and aid policy. It must be possible to monitor donor assistance to implementation. Whether you are an elected politician or an individual interested citizen, this should be simple. The Swedish Democrats see the initiative to the website Openaid.se as a very good function, although there are still shortcomings. In order to complement the performance letters to the Riksdag, we believe that the information contained in Openaid.se must be developed and that examples of results should be presented more clearly. The example of previous discussions on aid to Palestine is a very good example of why this needs to be developed. When aid is channelled through multilateral organisations, it is often seen as a channel for other implementing partners in the framework of operations. For example, a significant part of Sida's support to the UN is passed on to civil society organisations, national as well as regional and local grassroots organisations. In some countries, the large land-based humanitarian funds channel up to 80% of the funds through NGOs. The use of multilateral organisations to channel Swedish bilateral assistance has increased significantly in the 21st century. We believe that there is a great risk that too much trust will be placed in the multilateral organisations responsible for channelling money. For this reason, the monitoring and follow-up, but also transparency, of the implementing partners must be improved in order to facilitate the follow-up of assistance in, for example, a country area from donors through multilateral organisations to the implementing partner. We are in favour of the Government reporting on the efforts made to support refugees on the subject of humanitarian aid, but we still believe that this should have an even higher priority in aid. In future performance reports, the government should explain more clearly to what extent the implementation partner is following Sweden's strategy – the strategy we have established here, the strategy that the Swedish Government has – and objectives for aid. The government itself describes how much the international work on refugee assistance has developed, not least when the circumstances of conflict situations are constantly changing. Aid for refugees must no longer be just a matter of purely humanitarian aid, but also of more sustainable solutions in the long term. These are solutions that can, for example, relate to prevention. These are solutions to prevent a refugee crisis, but they are also post-crisis efforts to promote reconstruction and return. In conclusion, Madam President, the Swedish Democrats believe that there are grounds for a comprehensive report of results both preventive during the conflict and after in order to evaluate how this work can be further developed. I would therefore like to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation in the report.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-608	Madam President, I would like I am very proud and happy today to be able to stand and discuss the aid that goes through multilateral organisations from Sweden. We have a tradition of open and transparent aid that we can be proud of, and that also applies to multilateral aid. From the early 1950s, when Sweden started with aid, we used the multilateral organisations to channel our aid. Most of it was channeled that way from the beginning. But at some point in the 1970s, when Sweden built its own capacity, it fell to the lowest level. At that time it was around 30% of total aid. Today, approximately half of Swedish aid is channelled through multilateral organisations, and there are very good reasons for this. Global challenges require common solutions. Cooperation reduces administrative burdens in both recipient and donor countries. The joint work provides a larger knowledge bank where you can learn from each other. Cooperation in multilateral organisations also gives us, as a country, a greater opportunity to influence the development agenda. Swedish multilateral aid is divided into core and earmarked aid. About two thirds go to core support, and one third goes to thematic and geographical strategies. The biggest strategies, funded by Sida's multi-bi, concern democracy, human rights, gender equality and humanitarian efforts. We are great advocates in Parliament, and the committee has made it clear that we should have as much core support as possible. And Sweden delivers on that point. Unfortunately, global developments do not look so positive. The earmarked aid increases at the expense of the nuclear aid. Particularly hard hit are the UN agencies, which today are as much as 75% funded with earmarked aid. Sida's support through multilateral organisations has increased due, among other things, to Sweden's increased involvement in conflict and post-conflict countries, to significantly increased humanitarian needs and to the fact that multilateral organisations have advantages in terms of capacity, efficiency and coordination. We from the Swedish side have been keen to support the UN system as an important system carrier for an effective response but also as an important bridge between humanitarian and long-term development cooperation. In the Government's letter, the Government reports its work on three of the areas contained in the broad approach to multilateral aid decided last year. It is gender equality, the environment and climate, as well as democracy and human rights. These areas are particularly important for the overall objective of aid. These are also areas that this and previous governments have prioritised, which means that we can follow it over time, which is important. Unfortunately, these are also areas where developments are going backwards. Sweden's voice and contribution are extremely important for us to achieve another system of things. With this in mind, I would like to support the proposal in the Committee on Foreign Affairs' report.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-617	Madam President, I would like There will be more opportunities to discuss aid policy, transparency, effectiveness and quality of aid. The big debate is the budget debate. We have had that, but we still have the debate on global development policy. The development debate has been marked by procedural issues, such as the fact that aid funds have paid for campaigning activities in relation to the UN Security Council and that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs is not working with either anchoring or information. Today, DN also draws attention to the fact that political officials have tried to change what would be an independent investigation, and when it failed, the dark report tried. In conclusion, much of this letter is the least we can expect. The committee assumes that the government will live up to what we agree on. It could be easier to follow up. Follow-up may be better here, but it needs to be better in the budget. It is also reasonable for the government to report on the progress of work with multilateral organisations. We pay a lot to them, more than half of the aid budget. They are doing many good things, but there is, of course, much to be improved within the UN system. In short, there is a great deal of consensus on core aid and that it is good to cooperate in the field of aid. Sweden should not be everywhere and try to give everything to everyone. It rubs out the stakes, and we lose efficiency. Swedish bilateral aid should be about what the multilateral cannot deliver. It is quite reasonable that Sweden prioritises gender equality and women's role in development, the environment and climate, as well as democracy and human rights. It is important that Sweden stands up in counterwind issues, such as SRHR, sexual and reproductive health and rights. There, the Riksdag helps the government not to lose focus. However, the multilateral development system faces major challenges. Among other things, it's about the world around us and about the conflicts getting more and worse and going on for a long time and the earmarking of money increases – it slows down the processes when there are humanitarian crises. The major financing issues are far from being resolved. One practical issue where there is great potential for improvement is procurement in the UN system. We are major donors but have been poor at contributing Swedish innovations and our entrepreneurship. Basically, it can only go up there. We have much to learn from Denmark. Madam President, I would like It's easy to say that the government does too little and too late, that's it. And it's easy to point out that we now have another debate in which the responsible minister is not in place – it has been noted in the last three debates, I think – just as it is easy to say that the current government has chosen to politicise Sida by appointing a social democrat as Director General, who also becomes an overcoat for MP. But soon there will be elections– it is probably 101 days kva r – o ch then there will not be this government left. Madam President, I would like Soon we can have Ulf Kristersson as Prime Minister, a prime minister for the hopeful. Then I hope, and many more, that it will be a fresh start, not only for Sweden but also for development policy.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-627	Madam President, I would like We are here today to debate the outcome letter on development cooperation and humanitarian aid through multilateral organisations. Sweden has an important role to play on the international stage when it comes to poverty reduction, development and humanitarian efforts. That may sound a little presumptuous; after all, we are a rather small country. But at a time when the winds are blowing as they are, it is very good that we are standing up for 1 percent of the bni to go to aid. We channel our aid to the most vulnerable and poor, we are one of the world's largest donors of humanitarian and climate aid, and we stand up for the unallocated aid at a time when many other countries restrict it. At a time when we see increased nationalism, populism and protectionism, we need multilateral cooperation more than ever, and today we are discussing precisely the aid channelled through multilateral organisations. It has an important and growing role. It has increased significantly over the past 10 to 15 years, and today almost every second of it goes to or through multilateral organisations. When we contribute in this much more multifaceted way and get Swedish values, we can also have a greater impact on our aid. The reason why assistance to and through multilateral organisations is important is, of course, today's international challenges. These challenges are largely shared and best addressed through international cooperation and not by an individual country or organisation. Together in a multilateral development system, we can face the challenges we face today. In order to implement Agenda 2030, we need more multilateralism and less introverted nationalism. Aid that forms such a large part of the budget, in which we taxpayers contribute, must, of course, be effective, have a solid analysis of results and transparency, just like any other aid. The Government has actively strengthened this by creating a coherent and strategic Swedish collaboration with the multilateral organisations. Last autumn, a new multilateral strategy for this was adopted, the Strategy for multilateral development policy. With this, the work is strengthened even more to maintain a coherent strategic Swedish action and cooperation with these organisations so that we know that the Swedish aid money really and to an even greater extent than they have done before contributes to sustainable global development. The overall accounting that we are seeing here today is, of course, very important. We should know that if the money is useful, we will have an impact on our priorities. Who it is we heard before: women, gender equality, SRHR, environment and climate, democracy development and transparency. This letter shows that we have a good impact on our priorities in the organisation's activities. As the letter says, in a longer perspective, global development has been positive in several respects, and Swedish multilateral development cooperation has contributed to the positive development of many countries in several areas. We see that Swedish advocacy has led to a far greater result than Sweden could achieve on its own and alone. There has also been a rather lively debate on the results of aid during the parliamentary term. There has been criticism of the government for being unclear with results and that we could not see effectiveness. However, the strengthening of the strategy and the letters we have produced show the opposite. We take results and dialogue with the Riksdag very seriously, not least when it comes to the multilateral. With the new guidelines that form the basis for the letter we are now talking about, we see clear results and increased transparency, which is important for the discussion, cooperation and control exercised by the Riksdag. It is also the basis for achieving a more effective result. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say that Swedish aid is a very important part of foreign policy. We make a difference in the world, and we will continue to operate in difficult environments. This is needed, not least with the challenges that we are seeing today. We are going through one of the worst refugee crises since World War II. We have 125 million people in need of humanitarian emergency aid. Civil society is being pushed back country by country, and women are being subjected to terrible abuse in many war and conflict zones. Then it is also important to analyse the effectiveness and effectiveness of aid. With the new strategy and the result letter, we see that we are clarifying and investing in this. It is with monitoring, evaluation and reporting of results that we can learn in order to continue to make balanced and informed decisions so that we get effective development cooperation and make a real difference in people's lives.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-638	Madam President, I would like As has already emerged from this debate, there is strong Swedish support for multilateralism. This does not mean that today's government can feel 100% secure in terms of its strategy. I believe that we have chosen not to go into this discussion in depth in this report, although there are reasons for the government to read in the report. I will come back to that. As has been shown, more than half of Sweden's aid goes to multilateral organisations. Since the turn of the millennium, Madam President, we have been able to see how the flora of multilateral bodies has grown. There has been good growth in institutions, financiers and countries inside and outside the DAC system. Sweden, unlike the rest of the world, has always had support of around 30 per cent, i.e. in practice an increase in nuclear aid. 80% of this aid goes to some thirty different organisations. Internationally, however, earmarked support has had good growth, from 23% in 2007 to 33% in 2015. Today it is even higher, and the earmarked aid is the aid that has the great growth. This results in lower aid effectiveness and, which is important, distorts incentives for other donors and also for Sweden. The priorities of other countries are in danger of not coming forward. For example, our core support can become part of a financing of other countries' priorities and not of Swedish priorities of Swedish values. This also applies when we choose to thematically target a number of different organisations or institutions. Therefore, from the Center Party, there is a desire to increase bilateral support, in order to completely reverse but to ensure that with our values we can also make a difference in the multilateral structure. As far as humanitarian aid is concerned, it is important that it is core aid, because it requires flexibility and opportunities for rapid re-priorities in order to meet the humanitarian challenges facing the world's population. Madam President, I would like In the situation that we have with a large proportion of multilateral aid, it is vital, as the committee states in its report, to point out the possibility of monitoring objectives and results and to ensure that the right form of indicators is used. Here I very much hope that the government reads and reads better than has been done in some other reports on follow-up. The importance of Parliament having the opportunity to review and follow up the results, objectives and priorities of multilateral support is, of course, part of what we have emphasised before, and we are now stressing it again. It's about faith. It is about sustainable aid. With this, Madam President, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report, where we have no reservations.
i-470861efe2dc43b9-646	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating a report based on the government's letter on development cooperation and humanitarian aid through multilateral organisations. The aid channelled through multilateral organisations, mainly the UN, has increased significantly in recent years and now amounts to more than half of the Swedish aid budget, about SEK 20 billion per year. Therefore, it is also essential that Parliament is given transparency and information about multilateral support and its results. It is good that the Government has followed up on the announcement made by Parliament in this letter. It is not only Sweden that has chosen to channel more of development aid through the major multilateral organisations. Similar developments have taken place internationally, which must be assumed to demonstrate broad confidence that these organisations are effective and important actors in the fight against poverty and humanitarian work. We Christian Democrats believe that multilateral work is incredibly important. However, we are careful that funds should not go to these organisations out of habit or that priority should not be given to increasing the capacity of smaller civil society actors. Madam President, I would like The report deals with the issue of earmarking support for UN agencies. Internationally, earmarked support to multilateral organisations has increased at a faster pace than nuclear aid. The earmarked aid has doubled since 2007. Earmarking of aid risks contributing to the difficult administration of the UN system and overlapping of the activities of different bodies. In the field of humanitarian aid in particular, core support provides greater flexibility and an opportunity for organisations such as the UNHCR and the World Food Programme to act more quickly. Today, earmarked aid accounts for 75% of the contributions to UN funds and programmes. That is too much, and I am glad that we emphasise this in the report. The committee has chosen to focus in the report on procurement to multilateral organisations. It is a very important issue which I believe the government has not given sufficient priority. Modern, efficient, transparent and sustainable procurement is an important means of development efficiency, as well as stimulating the development of new innovative solutions that could help more people in need. The application of procurement rules also acts anti-corruption, as the committee writes in the report, and can help boost the involvement of the private sector. Sweden is the world's sixth largest financial donor to the UN system. But Swedish entrepreneurs and companies have only a small share of the UN system's total procurement of goods and services – 0.18 per cent in 2016. This means that Sweden is in place 73 when it comes to procurement – far behind our Nordic neighbours Norway and Denmark. Recently, parts of the Committee on Foreign Affairs also visited Denmark, which has achieved an impressive success in bringing in Danish innovations and products that can contribute to better solutions in disaster situations. With a procurement volume of USD 177 billion, the UN system provides a huge opportunity for companies to contribute innovations and solutions. Denmark sold in 2016 for a value of 738 million dollars. For Sweden, the figure of 32 million dollars landed in the same year. In other words, the potential for improvement is very great. Sweden needs to be better at assisting entrepreneurs and talented innovators – they really do exist – to participate in UN procurements and be able to contribute to really smart innovations and products. Denmark has, as I said, worked with the UN in a different way Sweden. For example, they have long held large warehouses for humanitarian purposes. In 2013, the UN Byen was inaugurated in Copenhagen with the aim of making the UN a more visible world organisation also at home. It is an open place for schools and workshops, and several important UN organisations have their offices there. It also houses one of the world's largest warehouses of over 20,000 square metres. I say as a previous speaker today has said: the Swedish Government should be prepared to learn more from Denmark. Madam President, I would like Not all aid should be channelled through various UN agencies. Civil society often has contacts and direct distribution systems that should be better used, especially when assistance in disaster areas does not always come through official UN channels. All too often the international humanitarian systems focus on the major international organisations and leave the local actors without influence. The Christian Democrats believe that Sweden should channel humanitarian aid more than today through smaller civil society organisations and communities working on the direct front line in disaster areas. They have better local knowledge and are in place long-term. The various elements need to complement each other even better in the work on humanitarian aid.
