i-f790507cf9c0f341-1	Mr President, I would like to Penilla Gunther has asked me what I intend to do to ensure that, among other things, the following problems are resolved: that patients have been stopped from attending medical studies at university hospitals, that treatments are at risk of being too expensive, that patients in need of orphan medicines do not receive them, and that there must be more clinical studies in Sweden. A common reason why patients are stopped from being included in studies is that the prices of the drugs are very high. In practice, if treatment is started, it may be difficult to stop it. For a responsible clinic manager, the question may arise as to whether the care should bear the costs when the medicine has been approved. In that case, participation in a clinical trial may in the long term involve a substantial financial commitment that must be balanced against, for example, personnel costs and other effective interventions for all patients. The price is also almost always unknown at the time of the clinical trial. The medicine is free for the patient and care during the clinical study, but once approved, the prices may be very high in relation to the benefits of the medicine. It is the Dental and Pharmaceutical Benefits Agency, TLV, which, based on a health economic assessment, decides whether the medicine should be eligible for benefit. If the medicinal product is licensed, it is certainly preferential, but this applies only until the product has been authorised. The company then places a price on the product, which may be eligible. It is also up to the pharmaceutical companies to choose whether, and if so when, they should apply for the product to be included in the benefit – or not. After an application has been submitted to TLV, the Authority has 180 days to take a decision. Several measures have already been taken to contribute to lower costs for this type of medicinal product. At EU level, for example, there is a regulation on orphan medicinal products aimed at stimulating the development of orphan medicinal products by reducing the costs of medicinal products, for example through the possibility of simplified authorisation and data exclusivity for clinical data. In addition, the Government has worked to reduce the costs of medicines in various ways, for example by subsidising clinical trials by exempting researchers from the application fee for the trials. In addition, the Government has commissioned a special investigator, the so-called Pharmaceutical Investigation, to carry out a review where the overall objective is a long-term sustainable system that enables a socio-economically efficient use of medicines and follows the ethical platform that applies to priorities within healthcare, while keeping pharmaceutical costs at a reasonable level. The investigator shall, in preparing his proposals, endeavour to ensure a good access to existing and new effective medicinal products at a reasonable cost. At the same time, good conditions for research and innovation should be sought, and the proposals should be sustainable in the long term in relation to the different types of medicines of the future and how future care is conducted. Penilla Gunther also requests more clinical studies in Sweden. Here it may be good to know that the situation in Sweden is not unique but looks similar in the rest of the western world. Instead, many trials are being put into the markets of China, South-East Asia and South America. The government is actively working to get more studies to Sweden. Clinical research and life science is an important issue for the government. The government has therefore established a life science office at the Government Office to gather and strengthen the work. The work will promote knowledge development, innovation and quality in healthcare and improve the conditions for academic, clinical research as well as for life science companies to establish and operate in Sweden. The Life Science Office is also working on the issue of clinical trials and on dialogue with relevant authorities and industry organisations. The government is therefore already working strategically to remedy the problems pointed out by Penilla Gunther.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-12	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is gratifying that there is so much work going on with life science in the Government Office. I have several times met Jenni Nordborg and also the former responsible, Anders Lundberg. When I entered the Riksdag in 2010, there was a great demand from the life science industry for a wider grip on this. I myself arranged a number of seminars on the subject here, which raised, not least, the issue of clinical trials. In fact, for a few years the situation in terms of the number of clinical trials has improved, but now it has deteriorated again. Of course, one might ask why this is the case. I haven't heard anything about that. What was the reason for the positive hump? Was it because a life science coordinator was appointed and that the companies thought that this is the country to place the studies in? I do not know, but it would be interesting to hear the Minister's thoughts on this. What concerns me, and the reason why I have made this intervention, is that both Karolinska u nivers IT Hospital and Sahlgrenska u niversity Hospital have refused patients to participate in studies on two new drugs. Then it is clear that the question arises whether to really take into account from the outset that a medicinal product will be expensive. In one case, muscle dystrophy, it is a rare diagnosis. We can see that this is a costly disease because it is a small group of patients who really require orphan drugs. Nevertheless, even this group of patients need to get their medicines in order to feel better and, not least, live longer. Many of these patients die at a relatively young age, and it is terrible for parents and other relatives to see how the power basically flows out of these children and adolescents, although new drugs have proven to be effective. We also have examples where patients have actually received medicines but then been denied. Not even a year ago was such a case up in Västra Götaland, and one in Östergötland. Here the NT Council, which is not mentioned in the Minister's reply, has had a major impact. And here I would like to continue with my questions: what is the role of the NT Council in this? Is this also affected by the studies? If the medicine will not be included in the NT Council's recommendations, although it has been approved by TLV, it will not come out to the county councils. What do we do about it? These are often small groups of patients who cannot always assert their own rights.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-20	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Penilla Gunther, for the questions! I understand that the Member of Parliament is very familiar and committed. It shines through the interpellation. I also know that she knows that this is an extremely complex and difficult issue. The immediate feeling when reading the interpellation is: Oh, my God! It's sore in the heart. We know it's about vulnerable patient groups. We also know that we have a development in Sweden and in the outside world where, in line with drug development, we will be able to treat far more of these small and very special groups. Basically, this is one of the underlying reasons why we have now set up the Pharmaceutical investigation, which will look at how we achieve a sustainable supply of medicines in Sweden, both from an ethical perspective and, of course, from a financial perspective. Mr Heinsoo is due to present his final report on 1 December this year, and this is one of the many complex issues he has on his table. Hopefully, he will come back to the government that will then have a proposal on how we can achieve sustainable drug supply in Sweden in the long term, which also includes these very special groups. On the issue of clinical trials, I would like to return to what I said in my interpellation response. Yes, Sweden has few drug trials. According to the statistics, we are not alone in this, but it is also a fact in many other Western countries. What China, South-East Asia and South America can offer to pharmaceutical companies is much larger populations to base themselves on when conducting trials and also lower costs. Sweden has a relatively small population. But we can see that Denmark, for example, has been more successful in bringing about clinical trials, despite the fact that we have even less population than we have. According to our life science office, this is because Denmark has been working very focused on clinical studies for a long time. According to LIF, the low figure is also due to a lack of incentives for research and innovation in healthcare. I hope, a little like Penilla Gunther was also in his post, that we, with the clear focus that we now have on life science and with the special mission that they also have when it comes to clinical trials, will be able to get to a focused work that will hopefully enable us to get up the number of clinical trials in Sweden again.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-27	Mr President, I would like to I think the special investigator in the pharmaceutical investigation, Toivo Heinsoo, is doing an important and good job. I am really looking forward to the results that will be presented. I think they are important to all of us who are involved in these issues. For the sake of patients, we must have clear and clear rules and policies so that we know what applies. The problem, as I see it, is that what we say at national level does not always have an impact in county councils and regions. It's not at all satisfying. This is a problem that we have discussed both with Annika Strandhäll and with the former responsible minister, and I am thinking not least of my own former party leader. The question has been raised a number of times. This is gonna be awkward. People generally believe that we have some kind of influence so that drugs and treatments are just as important in the country, but that is not the case. At present, it spreads quite quickly if people feel that they are not treated equally, do not get the same chance to participate in a study or do not get access to a medicine that is new and gives better results. There was a report from Growth Analysis on the development of orphan drugs and rare diagnoses. There it is seen as a success factor for Sweden that companies should be able to develop even more medicines of this type in Sweden. Then we are dependent on the fact that we actually have the opportunity to carry out drug trials for different patient groups in the county councils and regions. I see that there is a need for some kind of incentive there, because otherwise you do not take that time. In the long run, the patients are not interested in taking part either.Why spend time on something that just feels awkward? In this context, I would also like to mention the quality registers. They are a part of this, and it is important that we in Sweden can start from the quality registers when it comes to research on various diseases. We can clearly see that there are many variations between the registers. As far as I understand – perhaps the Government can tell us more about this – the funding is not clear as to how these registers should be managed in the future. After all, it becomes another factor of uncertainty for pharmaceutical companies. If you're going to trust the records, there's got to be people running them, and you have to be able to trust them to report in as they should. Otherwise, the records will have no use. One is connected with the other, but ultimately it is about how patients are treated and what care and treatment they receive. I look forward to answers to the further questions I have asked.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-33	Mr President, I would like to Let me start where Penilla Gunther left off. Our quality registers are something that we in Sweden are very proud of. We are proud that we have such well-developed quality registers in Sweden, and they are something that many other countries are looking at with some envy. So far, we have secured an agreement with SKL on the continued financing of quality registers. Then perhaps you need to think about a longer-term solution. But regardless of the government, I am convinced that this is an area that one will be keen to continue to protect, because it is incredibly valuable for Sweden, not least as a research nation. As far as the second part is concerned, I really have no other opinion than Penilla Gunther. We have a fantastic development in the field of pharmaceuticals that makes it possible for more and more people to get treatment even for very narrow and specific diagnoses. Our job as politicians at a time when these drugs, aimed at narrow patient groups, are often extremely expensive, is to find a long-term solution that is sustainable. It is a matter of ensuring that we create an asset for the patient groups in need of these medicines in a safe and sound manner, thereby creating security. We have set up a pharmaceutical investigation, which is working on and which is due to submit its final report in the relatively near future. In fact, it is the first review of the preferential drug financing scheme since 1998, when cost liability formally moved from the State to the county councils. There is now a real task on the table to review the pricing and subsidy systems. I also know that Mr Heinsoo, our investigator, is very aware of the problem raised by Penilla Gunther in the interpellation. But I believe that the objective must be a long-term sustainable system, which also enables the socio-economic efficient use of medicines. This means that we can have a clear division of responsibilities between the state and county councils that contributes to equal and patient-centred care and that contributes to predictable processes for the stakeholders involved. It is also a question of incentives, which Penilla Gunther raises, that we have good conditions for research and innovation, which can also be of benefit to the patient. I know that the investigation is analysing and considering whether the current system of a special state grant for medicinal products within the benefit is appropriate or whether it should be changed. It will be incredibly exciting to take note of any suggestions that might come on the table, but at present we do not have a ready-made solution to the problem that Penilla Gunther raises. We will have to wait for what the pharmaceutical investigation will come up with and on the basis of it then work further. But, as I said, I think we are basically quite in agreement on at least the direction in which we need to go.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-38	Mr President, I would like to This, with rare diagnoses and orphan drugs, is something we have talked about before, the Government and I, within the framework of Nordic and European cooperation. We are still one of the few countries in the European Union that has not even developed a framework, an action plan, for rare diagnoses and orphan drugs. I find that rather problematic. Although Toivo Heinsoos investigation is great and comes up with many good things, this is a special area that I think requires a little more reflection and principles. A year ago, when I was in a European working group on orphan medicinal products, we had a very coherent view of this. One of the principles is that there must be a national system to ensure that there is equal care for groups with rare diagnoses. It may be a national pot that I myself have previously exercised about, or it might be done in some other way. But my question is finally: how can we, with the system we are in, with 21 county councils and regions and with poor incentives for clinical studies, accommodate this from the national level together with these county councils and regions?
i-f790507cf9c0f341-41	Mr President, I would like to That said: Thank you for an important interpellation, Penilla Gunther! I have a great understanding of the ideas of a national system or a national pot, as Penilla Gunther describes, in order to meet these needs. It can surely be said that the system we have today also includes the effects of, not least, the various compensation systems that have been created in different county councils. That makes this issue very, very difficult. This also contributes to some extent to inequality of access for these groups. That is why I find it difficult to see that there is a simple solution. I think there must be changes if we are to be able to face this – I say that without locking myself in to anything before we have an investigation results on the table. I know Toivo Heinsoo's been thinking. One looks at what it looks like internationally. He has, among other things, highlighted three levels of how cost liability could be distributed: at national level, where the state takes the risk, at regional level, where the county councils jointly and severally allocate the costs between themselves, or at a level where the state, county councils and companies jointly take responsibility. But as I said, within the current system, I find it difficult to see this, and for this government it is incredibly important that we take steps towards more equal care for all groups of patients. This is a very special and important issue. I thank you for a good interpellation, and I am convinced that we will come back to this issue in the autumn and winter as the investigation proposal comes.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-46	Mr President, I would like to Maria Malmer Stenergard has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that small-scale producers will be able to sell their products in Systembolaget's stores and how I view Systembolaget's advocacy work. I want to start with that Systembolaget continuously works to meet consumers' increased interest in the local and small-scale, which has also come through in Systembolaget's sales. Systembolaget takes this development into account through new approaches to the management of local and small-scale items in order to increase accessibility, product information and quality control. The number of suppliers and articles, in terms of both beer and wine, has increased significantly in Systembolaget's small-scale range. Today, the number of locally produced beer varieties amounts to more than 1,200, and there are wines from more than 30 vineyards. Systembolaget's product selection is regulated in the agreement between Systembolaget and the state. The selection may be based only on an assessment of the quality of the product, specific risks of harm to the product, customer demand and other commercial considerations. If a product is rejected from or removed from the range, the supplier has the right to have the decision reviewed by the Alcohol Collection Board. Systembolaget's product selection process is designed to ensure that there is no favoritism of domestic products. The legitimacy of the retail monopoly depends on the non-discriminatory functioning of Systembolaget. Regarding Maria Malmer Stenergards's question about Systembolaget's advocacy work, it is part of the company's mission. This is done by the company in several different ways in order to reach as many as possible. It is about everything from people-forming information efforts to the direct customer meeting. Systembolaget is subject to the Swedish Companies Act, as are other companies with state ownership and Swedish limited liability companies. According to the Act, the Board of Directors is responsible for the company's organisation and management of its affairs and has, as well as the company's management, to ensure the company's best interests, which also includes monitoring the company's position in the socio-economic debate. Representatives of the companies manage not only a financial value in the companies but also a trust capital of the public. I assume that representatives of Systembolaget put forward arguments and positions in the debate that are balanced and well-founded.
i-PMBKmAiZKow9bPedhghhhc	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Moderate colleague Maria Malmer Stenergard has handed over this interpellation to me. I would like to start by making it clear that we Moderates are not against Systembolaget's monopoly, and I would certainly like to pay great tribute to their staff for their service and know-how. I and many parliamentary collegues have farm breweries and wine producers in our home countries and often get questions about Systembolaget's policies, which in some cases are considered to make it difficult and prevent for producers and entrepreneurs who sell their products. The brochure that Systembolaget publishes on local and small scale says, among other things, that Systembolaget is primarily there to make alcohol-related problems in society as small as possible. Our mission includes informing about the risks of alcohol, providing good service and selling with responsibility. ..................................................... Of course, what many of the producers object to here is not the important task that Systembolaget has, i.e. to minimise alcohol damage and its consequences. The brochure is about local and small-scale, and on page 4 it says that we are brand neutral – everyone is treated equally regardless of size. That is what is not in line with reality, and I will come back to that. So the lines that stand as a portal clause are about preventing alcohol-related problems, which is excellent. Nevertheless, the local producers with a crafty production of beer and wine will compete at Systembolaget with a cheap strong beer that often costs somewhere around 10 SEK onor plus pledge. The smaller producers, of course, have much smaller volumes and cost more, and this should be dealt with in the same way. The monopoly should definitely remain, but this is the balance that we have in Sweden. Since autumn 2014– I think this is still the case – microbreweries have to send their products to Systembolaget's central depot in Örebro if they want to be included in the range at all. Before this came on 1 September 2014 and to meet the demand for locally produced beer the breweries had to have their products at the three closest system companies. Now they can only be found at the system company within a 100-mile radius, while at the same time they themselves have to pay for the transport to the central depot in Örebro. The brochure talks a lot about how important it is to the artisanal and that it should be a small-scale, but these are really pretty tough conditions. Before the change on 1 September 2014, I took part in a radio interview where a microbrewery in Norrland feared that this would knock them out, because it is so long transport and costs so much. I do not know how it went; I think it has to some extent settled today. But it is still quite complicated and expensive for local producers. Then one comes to the question: What does it mean that everyone is treated equally regardless of size? Now it is the case that the wine rod centres must produce 50 litres of wine in order to be considered at all. Previously it was 25 litres, but from 2017, which was also a rather difficult year for the wine producers, the volume was increased to 50 litres. Is it artisanal, and is it microproducers?
i-f790507cf9c0f341-59	Mr President, I would like to Let us not forget that the alcohol policy objective we have in Sweden is to promote public health by reducing the harmful effects of alcohol. This is, like the ultimate objective of alcohol policy in Sweden. We know that alcohol is still the third biggest risk factor behind ill health and premature death in Sweden. We know that alcohol-related accidents and injuries each year cost about 45 billion in Sweden, and that is why we have developed the alcohol policy that we have. That is why we have the exception that we have in relation to the European Union and that we are protecting very strongly. We know that our retail monopoly in the form of Systembolaget saves about 1 300 lives a year. It saves about 20,000 sick days and countless hundreds of millions in direct hospital costs. In 2017, which is the latest measurement, it was noted that Systembolaget has the highest confidence among Swedes in the Confidence Barometer. Three out of four Swedes want to maintain Systembolaget's exclusive rights, and Systembolaget was also appointed to be the best service provider in Sweden in 2017. Systembolaget is thus in an incredible number of ways a fantastic success story, and the reason why we also succeed in this is that we manage to respond to the wishes of the citizens, for example, when it comes to the small-scale. You can have a lot of views on that it should be even better, but Systembolaget's range for local and small-scale in recent years has grown explosively. Today Systembolaget has 300 small-scale Swedish producers in its range – 300! This is handled to the best of our ability to meet the wishes of our citizens. It is clear that it is reasonable somewhere to set some kind of limit to when it becomes economically indefensible to handle the quantities. It's a consideration you have to make. Systembolaget has made an information effort, among other things, to show the members of parliament who have had a lot of questions about this. You inform about the development and how it looks and that you work dedicated to this. I know this because I have ongoing discussions with Systembolaget's management on precisely these issues, that is, when it comes to the importance of maintaining high confidence in our retail monopoly by meeting people's wishes. Systembolaget itself has carried out a survey where it turns out that very many small-scale producers realize that if Systembolaget were to disappear as a sales channel for the 300 small-scale producers in the range, it is de facto for many about 500 sales outlets and 400 retailers all over Sweden that very many of these have access to. It is not possible to compare with that if we try to do this ourselves via a regular retail trade.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-67	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for an urgent debate. It is important to point out that we are not against the monopoly at all, but since there is a great demand for the artisanal products beer, wine and cider, it is of course a balancing act in terms of how to handle it. We all protect the monopoly, but we still have to be able to let them in. In the brochure on local and small-scale wine, it is stated that, from the largest international wine producers to the smallest Swedish microbreweries and craft manufacturers, competition neutrality is a direct consequence of the exclusive rights – we are committed to ensuring that all producers, from the largest international wine producers to the smallest Swedish microbreweries and craft manufacturers, have a level playing field. But that's not really the case, because you have to get up in a certain volume. Then the question is: Is it handcrafted then? Where's the line? In addition, there are wine producers in the rest of Europe who produce only for Systembolaget, on order according to how Systembolaget wants a certain product. You would now remove something from the shelves, I think it was bag-in-box that looks like handbags, not to stimulate consumption. Maybe you should have thought about that before you brought it in. I find this kind of dual message extremely difficult, especially for the producer. I read a call from 89 beer brewers in Metro on 9 November 2017, where they say that the same company, that is Systembolaget, controls the process of how and what is to be offered. Systembolaget says that this is what you want. They continue: Systembolaget's mission is to limit drinking, but we feel that at the same time they do not allow what you call shelf heaters, i.e. more expensive products that move slower. It should therefore also be commercially viable in Systembolaget's range. Furthermore, the brewers say that in doing so they see not only the uniformity of the products sold, but also that the large producers are given market advantages through an evaluation and distribution system that is fully linked to Systembolaget's own margins. All of this hampers creativity and creativity, which is so strong in their industry. Not least, the ability of brewers to survive is hindered. This is a little serious. It is often in rural areas that microbreweries and wine producers exist because that is where the production can take place. It also puts many villages on the map, such as Klövsjö in Jämtland, where there is a microbrewery, or the wine producer Blaxta in Sörmland. Producers are emerging, and that is a positive thing. These producers must have great freedom in what they want to produce and what it should look like. That's where there's a double message, which is a little stifling. Now it is about increasing the volume requirement when the producer will offer to Systembolaget, and 2017 increased the volume requirement from 25 to 50 litres. Now it will also be a cost issue. If you are going to be able to buy from the microbreweries and the local wine producers, the price must not be so high. Of course, the price should also not be dumped because it is then consumed more. This balance is extremely difficult. It's so fun that there are now local companies in Sweden that are growing a little without becoming big producers – whatever that definition is – that make great artisanal products with high quality. Then one might wonder why nonalcoholic beer, which I drink, is more expensive than strong beer. It's also a little crazy about the balance.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-78	Mr President, I would like to Basically, we can say that there is great satisfaction among the Swedish people when it comes to Systembolaget's way of managing its business. Three out of four Swedes want to keep the exclusive right. I believe that Lotta Finstorp is well aware that during her term of office the former bourgeois government itself had two investigations carried out to see if it could allow farm sales. Both investigations showed that it was not possible and at the same time retain the monopoly that three out of four Swedes think is important and want to protect. Therefore, the then moderate-led government also chose not to go further on these issues. I now note that there has been an announcement from the Riksdag about farm sales, which is very interesting. The same parties have investigated the question twice and have themselves concluded that farm sales are not compatible with the monopoly, but now Lotta Finstorp stands here and says that they protect the monopoly. We know that, in order for farm sales to be compatible with EU law, it cannot be limited to beverages made exclusively on its own farm. For the small producer of the locally produced beer or the small vineyard in Skåne, next door to the Absolut Vodka brewery in the same district, this means that they will conduct farm sales in competition with the brewery. In addition, they will be allowed to sell at EU level, i.e. all producers must be given the opportunity to sell their own produced drinks in Sweden. I don't think this is going to be a good situation. I am very interested in handcrafted beer and locally produced beer myself. The development that has taken place in recent years is absolutely fantastic. I am also pleased that there are now actually 300 small-scale producers in Sweden selling their products via Systembolaget. I can buy there myself or order through the order range. It's an incredibly good development. It sometimes gets a little misleading, but it is important for small-scale producers to have access to Systembolaget's sales channels. Then I can't answer why Systembolaget has increased from 25 to 50 litres of wine to try if anyone can be included in Systembolaget's range. I'll have to take that question with me. But it is certain that the routine has been tested for a number of years and that there are good reasons behind the raised border. At the same time, Systembolaget's management is extremely clear that it is objectively possible to see the increase of small-scale producers in the range. The increase goes straight up. In addition, management is clear that it is incredibly important that development continues. Systembolaget works well and saves tax money and not least health for people in Sweden. Alcohol consumption among young people is going down, which we shall be delighted about. At the same time, there is great satisfaction and support for this way of dealing with alcohol in the population.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-86	Mr President, I would like to My Moderate colleague Maria Malmer Stenergard asked a written question on a similar theme earlier this spring. At that time, the Minister's answer was that she agrees with the questioner that entrepreneurship should be encouraged in all parts of the country, and the government works to improve for rural businesses through an active business policy. The Minister writes that she is convinced that new jobs and growth in rural areas can go hand in hand with public health-based alcohol policies. How do I think? It will be interesting when the next government will deal with the announcement on the basis of the issue of allowing farm sales, retaining the monopoly and at the same time looking at the Finnish model – where it has succeeded in doing this. One issue that I would like to highlight, and which is addressed in the interpellation, is Systembolaget's opinion formation. The Minister also raised this issue. It was extremely strange that, before the vote in the Chamber, during the general period of exercise, all members of Parliament received an email from Systembolaget's CEO regarding farm sales. It was pure scare propaganda. Of course, it is important to create an opinion, but it became very strange given that we are the decision-makers and Systembolaget a state monopoly. Many here in Parliament were extremely upset. There was also a call in the daily press for Members of Parliament to see how we would proceed in a vote. Does the Minister think it appropriate that we Members of Parliament, we who make the decisions, should receive that kind of email from a state monopoly?
i-f790507cf9c0f341-92	Mr President, I would like to Yes, I think so. I know exactly what the question was about. It was not about telling Members of Parliament how to vote. I hope that Members of Parliament, regardless of their colour, can make as well-founded decisions as possible and take on board the facts from different quarters before they arrive in a conclusion. In this case, it was about the consequences – if one claims to protect the monopoly – if one votes to introduce farm sales. Two studies have shown that we are risking the whole monopoly with countless costs for taxpayers and in the health of people. I very much hope that Members of Parliament will take note of the facts. It is also in their mission to contribute to people-building efforts. What must also be said in this context, and as I have said a thousand times, is that the Finnish example is not comparable. Finland was given an early exception. The exception is to produce a certain kind of spirits with content from a certain amount of fruit and berries that are located above a certain latitude in Finland – it was 63rd latitude or something like that. It is not that Finns can in any way combine with farm sales, but it is the product that is inscribed as an exception. I want to be clear about that. We should be very proud of the results shown.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-97	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that emergency surgery continues to be available to everyone around the country. Lotta Finstorp also points out that the centralisation that is currently going on around the country can be based on incorrect statistics. Finstorp refers to the reports that were sent by Documents from within in May and which include calculations made in the report Training provides the skills of U tredningen on highly specialized care. It was easy to get the impression from the report in Documents that the centralisation of healthcare in Sweden is governed by calculations made in the study report Training makes perfect. It's not like that. I would like to point out that the centralisation that is currently going on throughout the country is largely governed by county councils. The part that is controlled from the national level is the national health care system. The level structure of cancer care is coordinated nationally by RCC in collaboration, but the individual decisions on concentration of care are made by the respective county councils or in some cases by the healthcare region. The study Training provides skills, which is in focus in Documents from within, is about highly specialised care. The current debate often forgets the difference between national and regional high-specialised care. The new decision-making process for highly specialised care voted by Parliament in March only concerns national highly specialised care. This treatment is matched by current national health care and the national level structure in the area of cancer. However, if a particular type of surgery is transferred from Västervik Hospital to Kalmars, it is a result of regional level structuring. The government chose not to go further with the proposals in Training provides skills related to regionally highly specialised care. It is important to point out that it will continue to be the case that nationally highly specialised care forms a smaller part of the care and that most decisions are made by county councils in the past as well as in the future. As far as incorrect statistics are concerned, I note that government investigations are independent authorities. Any calculation errors made by investigations or other errors that may be made are the investigator's responsibility. What I can take responsibility for is what the government does. In this case, when it comes to highly specialised care, it is, among other things, about what the government puts forward in its proposal. I am confident that the bill that the government submitted to Parliament last autumn is on a solid foundation. It is the patient's access to high-quality, highly specialised care that is the starting point for the government's proposal. There is a lot of research that shows that the quality of care increases when the person who performs the care is allowed to practice more, to perform more measures and interventions. Måns Rosén shows this, and so do many others. I have no doubt about that connection. The work to concentrate some advanced care was already carried out before the present investigation was presented. It is also carried out in other countries, and there is international research on the relationship between volume and quality in healthcare. All experience suggests that some advanced care needs to be concentrated in fewer units. It's a patient safety issue. Studies also show that in some cases Swedish patients are prepared to go to the hospital where the best and safest care is given. The interpellant highlights the importance of equal and effective care in the country. Lotta Finstorp states, among other things, that all citizens must be able to trust that care is the same for everyone – no matter where you live. I fully agree with that. The Government has set up an investigation, Governance for a more equal care, which has a clear focus on equality in healthcare and that the patient's best interests should be the starting point for the decisions made in healthcare. The inquiry submitted its interim report just a few weeks ago. The sub-report included monitoring and reporting whether differences in the use of care vary between groups of patients with different socio-economic differences. The interpeller wonders what measures I intend to take to ensure that emergency surgery continues to be available to everyone around the country. I note that it is important to analyse the consequences for emergency care in the work on level structuring of highly specialised care, and it is important to analyse the consequences for other types of care. This is also evident from the recent mandate given by the Government to the National Board of Health and Welfare. It is important to remember that it is mainly concentration of regionally highly specialised care that is deemed to affect the ability to carry out other care that is not highly specialised. As mentioned above, concentration at regional level is not included in the Government proposal. It is nevertheless relevant to include emergency care in expert groups' analyses as it is not possible to know in advance which care will be defined as national highly specialised care. Finally, I would like to remind you that the overall organisation of emergency medical care is an issue that the county council heads own, not the government. It is therefore more appropriate that they – individually and if necessary also jointly through SKL – handle it.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-109	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The answer shows that it is the county council heads who have the primary responsibility for emergency care. Absolutely! I've been a county councillor, so I know it. I would like to – that is also why I wrote the interpellation – that the Minister paints with a little wider brush strokes on the issue of security at all. Perhaps we should not be trying to be the best in terms of how much money we have spent on health care and when. I want to hear a little more about people's welfare security throughout the country, about residents of municipalities who pay the highest taxes but who lack or have a long way to go to care and treatment and who live with a concern not to receive care on time and that the small nearby hospital should be closed down or lost skills. I believe that Sweden's citizens would be valiant for clarity as to what expectations you can have depending on where you live. A shovel is a shovel, so to speak. Black in white – what is regionally highly specialised care and what is national highly specialised care? We who are always doing this on various issues know that, and we know what one can expect to find behind a door with a red cross on in a rural municipality. But the residents don't know that, so I think it would be good if our county politicians were clear about what is included – and this is what we can do in our county council, but we buy this. People don't know that. As a county council politician, you are in your competence. You're good at what's done and what's not done, but you're bad at communicating it to people. This is what I often meet when I visit or meet people in different contexts – especially in the country, where distances are often crucial for what service you can get. Here it would be much better if we were clear about what is possible and what is not possible. I think the vast majority of people who get a severe illness would prefer to go to the hospital in the world that has the best care, even if it is three hours by plane away. I would therefore like a little wider brush stroke, because this is the last interpellation debate that the Minister and I have this term of office. Access to equal and effective care in the country is one of the most difficult challenges one can have. What do we mean by equal care and effective care? What is the definition of equal care? You can talk about ethnic origin, gender and all that. But how can health care be equal in sparsely populated areas where it can be difficult to get competent staff to stay because they do not have colleagues? Developments in medicine are taking place so quickly, and you need to have a lot of training and colleagues to discuss different treatments with and so on. In small units you may not have this collegial competence, and then you move on. Perhaps it is also the case that the person you live with does not find work. The Minister knows all this. Then it is important to try to make the best possible possible for the people who live in the countryside and perhaps especially in sparsely populated areas where the distances are so obvious.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-118	Mr President, I would like to I thank Lotta Finstorp for stressing the importance of having a more general debate on this issue. I very much share that view. In the debate, the cards are often mixed away, and things are mixed up. For the individual citizen living in rural areas, it will be impossible to see through the debate we now have on health care. Sweden is at a stage of change in healthcare in many different ways, which is fantastic. That is why I thought it was important to make it clear in the interpellation response that there is a difference between the regionally highly specialised care and the highly specialised care we are talking about. Lotta Finstorp was into it, and we know that citizens can definitely imagine concentrating the most specialized and advanced care in Sweden in certain hospitals. This is already the case today with the treatment of severe burns. It is about having the best treatment methods and the cutting edge of health professionals in one area. In international comparison, Swedish healthcare is very high in terms of medical quality and efficiency, and it is a position to protect. But we will not be able to protect it if we are not also able to change and develop health care. Let me dwell on this. From the turn of the year 18/ 19 a new legislation will come into force which says that the care that citizens use most should be organised as close to the citizen as possible. Sweden is at a stage that began under the alliance government and that we have taken on where we are changing Swedish healthcare from today's hospital-heavy care to a much broader primary care. Primary care should be the obvious entrance for Swedish citizens. Here you should be able to handle a much wider range of diagnoses and problems than you do today, and it should be accessible and safe. In an international comparison, Sweden has a relatively small proportion of primary care. This is known by Lotta Finstorp, who has been county councillor. We are at 17 – 18 percent. Many countries have twice as many when they set aside resources for primary care. Now we are in a transition to really get closer care. The most advanced care is highly specialised, and some health care will need to continue to be regionally specialised in health care regions. I believe that county politicians are often valiant by a great deal of transparency and dialogue with citizens. It can be absolutely crucial, because when these shortcomings arise misunderstandings. Together, you need to find out what is possible and what you need to have. We also need to talk about how this transition and better use of new treatments and technologies can make healthcare available in a different way.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-126	Mr President, I would like to Yes, I think transparency and dialogue are extremely important. It may not make me any safer, but as a resident I can know what to expect and not. The reason I put this interpellation was that I saw a program on SVT about Västervik Hospital. It was about the emergency surgery and the concern for continued competence when the chief physician retired. The dialogue between staff and patients and the concerns that were there is a great deal of work to be done in the country. Although primary care is to be developed, which is quite right because close care must become more close, high levels of competence are required throughout the country. This problem persists. I don't think it matters how much money is added, because if you don't want to be in a certain place in Sweden doesn't even help a high salary. People are also concerned about regional reform. A few years ago, the waves of debate were high about merging county councils. The former Minister for Health stated on several occasions that large regions were necessary to secure the country's health care and that a number of emergency hospitals would then be closed down. I think this is still a cause for concern. What's going to happen to my local hospital? Security means different things for different people. In most municipalities and county councils, the population is increasing, which causes problems before it starts rolling. It costs a lot to invest when the population increases. We need more police and ambulances, and more are needed in the emergency services. Security is that the police, ambulance and emergency services come when you need and that there is care when you need and so on. There must also be bed places. The number of care places has decreased in recent years, despite a large increase in the population. They are said to have decreased because digitalisation and AI come with great technological advances. But I recently saw in Today's Medicine that the availability of digital services for health care is determined by where in the country you live and that there is a great deal of difference between how much e-services and 1177 Vårdguiden are used. One would like the county councils with the greatest distances and perhaps the most difficult to maintain skills to be at the forefront of digitalisation and to learn and help the inhabitants how to use digitalisation and that they can trust it. It is also a factor of security. There are many exciting projects going on, but it's still just projects here and there. For example, if you are to be able to talk to a nurse via the internet, good fiber capacity is a prerequisite.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-133	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, that's it. It's about several different things at the same time, and Lotta Finstorp is into many of them. The population is increasing. We expect 300 00 more children in Sweden to 2025 and 300 000 more over 70. It is wonderful and a privilege for a welfare country that we both grow more and that our elderly people add more years to their lives. But it also means that more people live longer with chronic diseases and that many have several different diagnoses. Today, 80 - 85% of healthcare resources go to someone with at least one chronic disease. We expect a doubling of the number of cancer cases to 2040, both as a result of lifestyle and that we live longer. Today you can also live much longer, perhaps all your life, with a diagnosis of cancer. This will place completely different demands on ongoing access to healthcare. With the technology development we have, there will be considerably more people who, with the help of the technology, can cope significantly more on their own. It is amazing when you take advantage of the opportunities ahead. For my part, I am absolutely convinced that this is a challenge that we will meet in Sweden. We also need to be aware that as needs increase – we grow and we get older – we can treat far more diagnoses today than we could before. I had an interpellation debate earlier today on, among other things, orphan drugs. Drugs are being developed for very narrow groups today, which can be treated all of a sudden. This requires us to be able to deliver to the people in need. It is about more effective care and that it should be attractive to work in health care. We know that it is not just about wage issues but also about there being enough hands to meet the needs. You need to work with work environment issues and working time issues, you need to ensure that health and social care personnel get the conditions and you can differentiate so that it becomes more attractive to stay and work in northern Sweden as well. You can work with incentives in different ways to make it more attractive. I am convinced that we politicians will have to work much more on this. I stood yesterday and answered a question from a journalist – it was striking and made me a little sad – who said that Macedonia has more care places and shorter queues. It's gonna be an absurd situation. After all, Macedonia does not have a health service that can almost treat the diagnoses that we can, which has the results that we have in cancer care or which, for that matter, can perform day surgery to a large extent so that people can get back home quickly. We must have order in the debate, because otherwise we will land wrong in the political decisions. We're supposed to keep our quality. When we talk about beds, we know that we have fewer care places. We may need more as we increase, but above all, we will take advantage of the possibilities of technology, which means that people do not have to have long, unhealthy hospitalisations. This applies not least to our elderly, who should be able to meet both with home care and with an expanded primary care in a completely different way than today.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-142	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to care places, it is interesting. I think they've been scaled down a little too early, based on what you hear from the care. Looking ahead, perhaps ten years, is quite right, because then technology has gone even further throughout the country. But we've been relying a little too fast on our previous homecoming. More care places are needed; it is obvious, from what you hear. The example of Macedonia is interesting. It's almost like talking about apples and pears-- you don't meet in that dialogue. Large scale is not equivalent to high quality and accessibility in all parts. This must be borne in mind. In my county of Sörmland we have a smaller hospital, Kullbergska, where they are incredibly good at hip replacement surgery. They do these often, many times a day, and have become very good at it. The small hospital can become highly specialized and super-ductive and thus attract staff. Human resources – how we can get it – is the big challenge. Even if we are expanding primary care, which is quite right – the close care should perhaps also be able to do a little more than today – there must be a high level of competence among those who work there. Just because it's primary care or close care, it's not good enough to settle for a skill that's not as high. There is no queue for health and social care education in upper secondary school. It is very difficult to get young people to want to work in the amazing profession it is to help people. Attracting staff and skills is the big problem, and I hope it will be possible to solve it in the future.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-147	Mr President, I would like to Yes, that will be the key issue. The staff is the Swedish health care system in many ways, both based on the expertise they have with them and based on the commitment they show. They are the ones who provide security and care for the citizens. Therefore, it is incredibly important with the investments that are now being made and to constantly think about how we create increased attractiveness. The transition that we have now begun in health care towards a broader and better-provided primary care will hopefully lead to an increase in the status of primary care, because that has been one of the problems. It is this care that should be the first line, which should be the citizen's entrance, that should be able to do more and that should be the hub of Swedish health care. With such a transfer, it is hoped that the attractiveness and willingness to work in primary care will also increase. At the same time, we must follow up with training places and ensure that you have the opportunity to receive students who are going to practice in health care, that you can work with working hours and work environment and that you can increase attractiveness throughout the country. Perhaps you can also to some extent allow yourself to be creative by making it much more attractive, for example conditionally, to work in some parts of the country than it is in other parts. When it comes to what Lotta Finstorp was into – the specialization that some country hospitals can usurp or have usurped – it is about efforts to build patient hotels or other things that allow you to go there and wait for your surgery and feel safe with it. We are in a phase of development of the Swedish healthcare system. After the debates we have had on this issue, I am convinced that there is a broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament to really tackle this issue and create greater security for Swedish citizens.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-152	Mr President, I would like to Jenny Petersson has asked me what conclusions I and the government draw from the situation and what responsibility we think we have. Mental ill-health is a major and serious public health problem, and especially worrying is the development of mental ill-health in children and young people. Since the mid-1980s, for example, the proportion of young people reporting recurrent psychosomatic symptoms has doubled. Initially, I would like to say that it is the responsibility of county councils and municipalities to meet the needs of the population for care and care, although the state has a responsibility for the overall health policy. In order to counteract the worrying developments in mental health and strengthen the work of county councils and municipalities, the government has therefore almost doubled its efforts in the area of mental health during its term of office. This year, the Government will allocate SEK 1.7 billion. Most of the funds have been allocated to county councils and municipalities through an agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's follow-up to the agreement in 2017 showed, among other things, that the county coordinators, who have a responsibility for coordination and information in the county, felt that the focus on mental health has become more evident, and a holistic perspective on mental health has been introduced in the counties. When it comes to investing in youth clinics in the agreement, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's follow-up shows that more than 60 per cent of the funds have been used to increase the staffing of youth clinics. Other funds have been used to strengthen accessibility in other ways. The increase in mental illness has been going on for many years, and reversing development will require extensive and long-term efforts from many different actors in society. One important player in this context is student health. Students' health should work to promote health and prevention and support students' development towards the goals of education and remove barriers to learning, development and health. In order to succeed in this assignment, student health needs to identify needs and take action at both individual and group level in collaboration with the other staff at the school. In order to strengthen and develop student health, the Government will invest SEK 200 million annually from 2016. This has contributed to more than 700 more employees in pupil health today than in 2014. The Swedish National Agency for Education has also been tasked with carrying out efforts to improve the prevention and promotion of pupil health. It is also important that staff who meet children and young people in everyday life have the competence to pay attention to risk factors that may lead to mental illness. The Government has therefore commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to allocate SEK 100 million this year to municipalities for, among other things, competence development for this particular purpose. And on 14 June 2018, the Swedish Public Health Agency was commissioned to develop an education on mental illness and suicide aimed at civil society actors who organise activities for children and young people. In 2016, the government adopted a new strategy in the area of mental health. The strategy covers the period 2016 – 2020 and provides guidance for work at national, regional and local level. Important development areas highlighted by the Government in the strategy are the development of prevention and promotion work in general, but also early interventions to those who are not well or at risk of developing mental illness. The strategy sets out how the area should be developed, and the government is now working to ensure that the strategy provides a long-term sustainable improvement in both preventive work and care and treatment. In the further work, we need to create the conditions for finding long-term solutions in regular structures where the state, county councils, municipalities and other actors that can contribute take joint responsibility. Even we have had many good projects, it is above all long-term sustainable structures that are needed. An important part of creating long-term sustainability is also that we can have a good dialogue and consensus across block borders.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-162	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. I am very pleased that we can have this very debate today, because it is very important. For me, it is important that every generation of young people should have the opportunity to influence their lives and achieve their goals and dreams. Young people affected by mental illness have great difficulties in achieving this. It is therefore a good thing that there are many of us talking about this important issue. As the Minister says, mental illness is a growing social problem. The number of people experiencing mental illness has increased, and it has increased since the 1990s. One group that is particularly vulnerable is children and young people. If children and young people do not get the conditions I mentioned, the road will be a little more crooked in the future. Perhaps it is a matter of not finishing your studies, not getting a job, not being able to leave home and not being able to take it out into adulthood as many of your peers do. As the Minister says, the mental illness of children aged 10-17 years has doubled in the last ten years. Today, about one in ten boys or girls has some form of mental illness. The National Board of Health and Welfare estimates that this increase will continue for some time to come, as there will be new cases of illness. It also shows that the consequences are long lasting for children and young people. Students' health and children's and young people's psychiatry have not been able to receive these young people either. More is really needed. Why did I write this interpellation? Well, it was because there are always alarm reports – I know the Minister is aware – and that the National Board of Health and Welfare stated that the money had not been effective in terms of increased staffing or availability of care and treatment. The money had mainly gone to needs analyses and action plans, which are very important. However, the supply of care had not increased or the staffing and availability of care. This is what I find so alarming and serious. Children and adolescents in urgent need of help are not helped. They do not come into contact with student health and child and youth psychiatry. It is gratifying that we want to reach a consensus on this issue. I think that's important. I believe that it is the way forward that we have a broad consensus on these issues and that we are not only talking about them but also addressing the problems and solving them. I think it is very important that there is a consensus on this in this House.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-167	Mr President, I would like to I am jumping into the debate because this is an extremely urgent issue which I have been very committed to, and perhaps above all mental ill-health in the workplace. If children and young people do not feel good mentally, we then see it in the long term in working life. It's connected. It is very worrying about the queues that are now available for children's and young people's psychiatry. It is also a question of providing skills. How can we get the expertise that we need on these important issues across Sweden, so that children and young people can feel better? It's actually the same thing as when we see that more police are needed. Then the municipalities must also do their part. It does not really help that we get more staff and shorter queues for child and youth psychiatry. There must also be advice, support and competence at municipal level. It is not possible to remove, for example, fielders. You also have to have the school counselors in place. I was a school counselor for many years and had the privilege of sitting out at the schools and being where the students were. Today it is quite common in the municipalities that student care teams sit in an office somewhere and go out once it has become urgent. More adults are needed in school, and so the student care teams can be an incredibly important resource in place in school. So just looking at one principal does not help. You also have to look at the other one. When you look at mental illness in working life, you can see that many young adults get sick leave due to mental illness, such as stress-related fatigue. And many have, as Jenny Petersson said, dropped out of school and not finished high school because they feel bad. Then they will enter the labour market with the pressure that it entails. They may have felt that the school gave such pressure and thought that it would be better to work. Today, however, it is extremely difficult to be, for example, a timvikari and receive a text message an hour before you are supposed to be at work. Maybe you have four jobs that you should try to piece together to get a better economy and so on. It's all connected. Many of the students I met as a school counselor were actually the same students and children that the preschool supervisors had seen in preschool operations. So the signals are coming very early. The complaints made by the preschool staff must therefore be dealt with directly and with a great deal of professionalism. Otherwise you roll this unhealthy snowball even higher up in the ages. It is always easier to deal with the problems much earlier. I feel the spears don't really exist. There is a lack of sociologists with long experience in social services. People like me may have retired because it's pretty tough to work there. A great deal of expertise is therefore needed in order to be able to take care of the children you see getting ill and working with the whole family at an early stage. There is a lack of competence. However, the queues for children's and young people's psychiatry are so long that there is no time for supervision and dialogue between the social services and children's and young people's psychiatry. Working together in a completely different way would benefit both parents and children. But there is often a lack of skills. And it's not always money that's missing. It could be completely different things. Then it is about the work environment issues again and that people should be able to work with these issues.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-175	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the interpellation. I think it is incredibly important to emphasise that we still see results in very relevant areas during this parliamentary term. As I said, we have doubled the resources for psychiatry, which is absolutely necessary as the needs increase. In fact, about 60% of the resources we have allocated to the investment in youth clinics have gone towards increasing staffing. Compared to 2014, we now see 700 more employees in student health, which is perhaps one of the most important parts of being able to catch these children and young people early. These are bets that need to continue forward. Resources are needed to solve these problems. In terms of skills supply: Yes, there are skills issues, but there is also a need to think wider. For example, how can you develop online youth clinics, UMO, to meet young people where they are? I think that is an important part, which I would like to see in a next step. Above all, however, it is a question of continuing efforts. What we are seeing today is deeply problematic. The Government and the Government's National Coordinator in the area of Mental Health have during the term of office had an ongoing work with the Swedish Students' Union, Tilia, Maskrosbarn and the Psychologist Association. The work is called Youth's order to society and is about where young people themselves see shortcomings today and what they think needs to be done. Among other things, it is said that the way we have designed schools and curricula today is a problem that contributes to mental illness among children and young people, as also confirmed by the Public Health Agency. It is also continued efforts on student health that are called for – to be able to catch up with children and young people earlier than today. If you feel bad, you should not have to get in line for children's and young people's psychiatry. Then it is far too late; it is too far gone. We know that one of the most important factors is to pass these girls and boys through elementary school so that they get enough grades to be able to apply to high school and manage it. For failure to pass school is a factor behind continued poor mental health and poverty throughout life, as well as deep difficulties in entering the labour market. I therefore believe extremely much that what is going on in the future is investing in student health. As Lotta Finstorp was involved, it is also about fielders, recreation centres and more school curators who can meet the students at the school – but perhaps even after school time – to easily capture them. What also emerges in Young people's order to society is to include in the teaching how to relate to their mental health. What are swings in life? It's about building and strengthening the students' self-esteem. I think that a very important part of not having to go so far is seeing young people who are at risk of feeling ill much earlier than today. What is obvious is that we will have to continue to invest in this area.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-182	Mr President, I would like to Thank you again for your answer, Minister. Annika Strandhäll talks about passing comprehensive school. Yes, unfortunately we fail disastrously – it is young people who do not finish school, do not enter high school and do not have full grades. We fail year after year in this area. We thus fail to have growing queues for children's and youth psychiatrists, and we fail in that way that young omers fall between the chairs at both municipal, county and national level. I think it should be very interesting, Mr President, to see after this parliamentary term the evaluations of this particular government's efforts in this particular area. I think it is very clear that we would have to do more of what works. All children should have good opportunities to succeed. Unfortunately, that is not the case. Many children are well placed, I should say, but there are still children and young people who are not given the opportunity to be part of the most basic tasks of the welfare society. Every child of a generation, as I mentioned in my first post, should have a chance to shape his own life and not just follow in the footsteps of others. The Minister mentioned that there is a social heritage when it comes to not passing the studies. One should not have to follow in the footsteps of one's parents, but a bad pattern should be broken – and society should be a guarantee that it will be possible to do so. As I said, all children should be given good opportunities to realize their goals and dreams and perhaps above all be themselves. My colleague, Lotta Finstorp, mentioned the need for other measures. I agree with that; there is a need for a broad range of solutions. Some relate to the economy, and some apply to laws for which we are responsible. Municipalities have some responsibilities, and county councils have some responsibilities. But we in the Swedish Parliament have our responsibility, and you in the Swedish Government have your responsibility, Minister. I would say that this is one of the biggest young people, and it is worrying that the queues for the BUP are increasing and that a number of children end up between the chairs. Let me therefore mention some concrete examples of what could be done at national level, Mr President. One could shorten waiting times for children and young people with mental illness. Today, the number of children who have had to wait more than a month for BUP intervention has more than tripled. It's really serious. There could be an increase in funding for the National Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention of Mental Ill Health. It is an initiative we in the Moderates want to make, because we do not know why so many young people – perhaps above all 90 ‐ talists – feel so bad and why it is increasing. Another initiative is an improvement in access to school nurses and school curators. Student health is an important complement to primary care and specialist care. There are bets, but they are not effective and have not given the outcome I think is desirable. We talked about this by establishing a national strategy to strengthen psychiatry and reduce mental illness, and I think it is very important. It needs to be followed up.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-192	Mr President, I would like to I think that Jenny Petersson put it very well: we know – and as the Minister says it is deeply worrying – that many children and young people today feel ill mentally, but we do not really know why. I think that is the big question. There are many reasons for this, and when you delve into and look at a case, I think you can see many different reasons why things have turned out the way they are. But how can society prevent mental illness among children and young people? Why is young people's self - esteem weaker today than before? There is no unambiguous answer, but it is a little different; you read different research reports and so on. But why has it become like this? I think there is also parental responsibility. I was a socionomist in 1982, and it was almost always possible to find explanations in that it was children of addicts or children who otherwise lived in social vulnerability. Today, however, this is not really the case, but it strikes all socio-economic groups – if you are going to talk in terms of class. This is an issue that one can lie sleepless at night over. Why is that? Why are so many adults on sick leave because of mental illness, stress-related fatigue, and so forth? Why do children and young people feel as bad as they do? I want to finish with an American study that I studied when I studied as a sociologist. It was about children in the Bronx who had grown up in substance abuse environments and for whom it had gone very well. They had not suffered mental illness because there was an adult nearby – the lady in the supermarket – who they could talk to every day. There's no grown-ups in any way.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-197	Mr President, I would like to I think it is important to have some order in the debate, because we still know a great deal. We know that in the last 15 years we have had the fastest growing gaps throughout the OECD. We also know that although mental illness is present in many different groups of young people, it is the young people who grow up in socio-economically vulnerable areas who are far more unable to pass school. Take, for example, Bergsjöskolan, where seven out of ten made it through the results when it comes to being able to move on to high school. There are differences. There are also class differences, and these class differences have increased. They make you grow up in a crowded, poor family where you can't get a studyo and where you bring tough experiences that have been left behind. It's about the economically weakest. That's where we need to bet. It's about investing in a stronger society – a society that stays together. It is about health care that can meet the growing needs and that can afford to hire more socionomists and school counselors. It is about investing in a society that can afford to reduce class sizes and that can afford to hire more police officers. Being a politician is also a priority. This problem will not be addressed if one chooses to prioritise reducing taxes rather than using the surplus that we have now worked up in government finances to make continued efforts on more employees in pupil health, on more teachers and on strengthening health care. Regardless of what Jenny Petersson says in this context, during this term we have doubled our efforts on psychiatry. Today we have 700 more employees in student health, and the number of teachers is increasing. We are also prepared to make further efforts. It is true that the queues are increasing. It is not surprising; it is enough to look at the curve for the last ten years in terms of how mental illness has increased. We also know what the Public Health Agency says. They came up with a report not so long ago that pointed out that – and had investigated why – young people in Sweden feel bad today. The main reason they pointed to was the design of the school, with curricula and stress for the individuals. When you look at Young people's order to society you see that they point to just that; that's paragraph 1. Knowledge objectives and curricula need to be revised and designed together with teachers and young people, inter alia in order to increase clarity. We therefore know that this is a problem. We know that segregation at school is another such problem. Above all, it is quite clear that once you have left high school you will find yourself in a labour market where you can go on fixed-term contracts after fixed-term contracts – general fixed-term contracts have exploded since the Moderate-led government introduced them in 2007. A young woman today gets her first permanent job when she is 34. It creates insecurity. Housing issues – that you can't get an apartment – also create insecurity. If we are to have a society that holds together, we must invest in young people, reduce segregation and reduce the gaps. We know that.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-209	Mr President, I would like to We make sure that our children and young people are whole in body and soul, we need to fix fewer broken adults. We can look at the figures; they show that the government has failed to do so. Annika Strandhäll is happy to use her time to talk about how the Alliance reduced taxes and invested 40 billion more in welfare. Absolutely; we managed to do both things at the same time. If this is the debate you want, Annika Strandhäll – absolutely. However, I do not believe that this solves the growing problem we have with these children and young people with mental health problems. As I said, I am tired of fine words without any concrete solutions to the problems we see. Mr President, I would like to Mental illness is a very broad concept. It includes nervousness, depression and anxiety, which are natural reactions to what happens in people's everyday lives. But when you suffer from mental illness that makes you need to take help from society, contact the student health service or get in touch with the BUP, during this term of office you have met with a lot of thanks, but we do not have the time. You've been put in a line. The Minister talked about different classes and how it looks about mental illness in different classes. I give you an opportunity, Annika Strandhäll, to account for the different percentages. It would be interesting to look at the percentages that you have, because you said there was a very big difference.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-214	Mr President, I would like to One can certainly talk about failure, Jenny Petersson. One such failure may be that you reduced taxes by 140 billion and left behind a government deficit of 60 billion crowns and a runaway youth unemployment, which certainly caused a great deal of mental ill-health in children and young people. We have now turned to a strong surplus of finances, and youth unemployment has fallen radically during this term of office. We are increasing security; young unemployed people today receive a contribution within 90 days. We have turned around in that we can now, with the surplus we have, manage to double the investment in psychiatry and thus also get more employees in youth clinics. It's limping, Jenny Petersson. One of the problems is that during your term of office you did not expand student health, did not expand first-line psychiatry and did not expand youth clinics, which means that children and young people are put in line for specialist psychiatry. They shouldn't have to do that, because then it's gone too far. We have tried to reverse this during this parliamentary term. One of the first things was precisely to introduce a national strategy to reverse this trend. We've changed direction, but more needs to be done. Then you have to have order in public finances. We know that a bourgeois government three times out of three possible ones has left enormous billion deficits to Social Democraticly led governments to turn around, as we have done every time.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-220	Mr President, I would like to Jenny Petersson has asked me on several occasions when the government intends to deal with patients receiving uninsured medicines. I have then answered that the question of how best to solve the problem of medicines that are not part of the Swedish pharmaceutical insurance being sold in Swedish pharmacies is complex. The solution recommended by Jenny Petersson is that the pharmacist should be obliged to provide information on the insurance status of the medicines sold. It was this solution, combined with an opportunity for patients to oppose substitution, where appropriate, as proposed in a government investigation in 2013. As I mentioned in my replies to Jenny Petersson, several heavy referrals criticised this proposal. Sweden's Farmers argued that the proposal would require a significant amount of information in cases where the insurance status was unclear. It was therefore decided to force the investigation's proposals to the Court of First Instance with determination. The Swedish Pharmacy Association argued that there was a problem with pharmacies being blamed for offering uninsured medicines. Apoteket AB noted that an information obligation would risk shifting the focus from patient information to the insurance issue at the customer meeting, which instead of dealing with the diagnosis, the medicine and, in particular, how the medicine should be used in the best way, would deal with possible risks for future drug damage and the possibility of compensation for these. The National Agency for Dental Services and the National Agency for Medicinal Products stated that the pharmacists' masts already have a comprehensive responsibility to inform patients. According to the Authority, the proposal of the investigation would mean that the information responsibilities of the pharmacist would be unduly increased. According to the Apotekarsocietet, more ec would be innumerable information in pharmacies that displaces information that is crucial to the proper use of medicinal products completely inappropriate t. In conclusion, there was strong criticism of the proposal for an obligation for pharmacists' staff to provide information on the insurance status of medicinal products in the meeting with customers. Several consultation bodies, including the Dental and Pharmaceutical Benefits Agency, the Disability Association, the Medical Association and the Swedish Diabetes Association, argued that a better solution would be for the state to take responsibility through the benefit system for ensuring that medicines subsidised have adequate protection. The problem with medicines that are not part of the Swedish pharmaceutical insurance being offered to customers at pharmacies must be solved. On this I fully agree with Jenny Petersson. However, the solution that the government chooses to proceed with must work for both pharmacists' staff and their customers.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-228	Mr President, I would like to The pharmaceutical insurance was introduced in 1978 by a voluntary agreement between pharmaceutical companies in Sweden. This has meant that patients who have been injured by a medicine have received and can receive compensation instead of going to court. Unfortunately, not all medicines are covered by this insurance. And it is true, as Annika Strandhäll says, that in written questions I have asked how the government will overcome the problem. My colleague, Barbro Westerholm, from the Liberals, has done the same, so there are several of us who have asked how the government and responsible Minister of State will overcome the problem of patients receiving uninsured medicines, and then without being informed about it. Nothing has been done during this term of office. The Minister says that this is an important issue from the point of view of patient safety, yet nothing is happening. It is true that two studies have been carried out in this area, but none of them have been taken forward. I could say that I do not really care about which you are moving on with, but what I care about is that there will be a solution so that patients will at least be informed that they are getting an uninsured medicine in their hands when they leave the pharmacy. Today, there could be a great deal of damage, as an exchange for an uninsured drug can take place on the initiative of a government agency, the TLV. A patient can have a prescription, get it replaced at the pharmacy and walk away with an uninsured medicine without knowing it. I find that totally unacceptable from the point of view of patient safety and consumers. As has already been said, there is no information obligation to protect and strengthen the patient's consumer power on this issue. And we in Sweden should definitely be concerned about patients' safety and that they should be able to make wise choices. It must therefore, I think, be informed of the consequences of uninsured medicines. I find it worrying that we have not made any progress on this issue and come to a solution in the four years I have been familiar with it.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-234	Mr President, I would like to Jenny Petersson knows that I have also tried to answer this question in the past, and it is complex. It may be good that I try briefly to explain, not least to those who listen, what the difficulty lies in. Just as Jenny Petersson was on the subject, and as I said in my interpellation response, two proposals for investigation have been referred to solve the problem of some companies not having insurance. Under the first proposal, an acceptable level of pharmaceutical insurance would be required for a medicinal product to be included in the pharmaceutical benefits, i.e. a social subsidy. Only in exceptional cases, where no alternative is available, could an uninsured medicinal product receive a subsidy. The difficulty of this proposal was to define an acceptable level that does not discriminate against companies that have taken out insurance other than the Swedish pharmaceutical insurance. Therefore, it was not possible in the Constitution to state that all medicinal products in the benefit scheme would be covered by the Swedish pharmaceutical insurance, since this would probably mean that the EU rules on free movement would be infringed. To put it simply, it is necessary to define the level of protection that could be granted under the benefit scheme. A government investigation was therefore commissioned to look at the level that would be required. However, the investigation directives also opened up to propose an alternative way of solving the problem. This led to proposal two, which I focused mainly on in my reply. This means that pharmacies would be given the task of informing about the insurance status and that the patient would be able to oppose an exchange. In addition, the prescriber would also be instructed to inform the patient of the insurance cover of the prescribed medicine. This investigation concluded that it was not possible to impose claims for insurance as a condition of benefit – that was the same as the conclusion. The study argued that the EU's so-called product liability directive was an obstacle to such a solution. The issue is complex and needs further analysis. As I said, the criticism was massive against the proposal which became the main proposal and which is the only one that has been on the table. We know that the way forward is complex and requires resources. And, as I have written in previous questions, the Alliance Government did not succeed in finding a solution to this issue either. However, I can assure Jenny Petersson that we intend to come back as soon as we have a solution that is feasible and sensible. Today we do not yet have such a solution, which I have been clear about in my replies to Jenny Petersson and also to Barbro Westerholm. It's boring. I wish this could have been further ahead than it is right now. We need a solution, but the issue is complex. The development of such a solution therefore takes time.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-242	Mr President, I would like to As I mentioned, I have asked this question to the Minister before, including in 2017, and then received a similar answer, that an answer would come shortly. We are now in 2018. I cannot therefore say that the answers I have received in the past, to put it mildly, have been satisfactory. It has been prepared and the intention has been to come back as soon as possible on this issue, as I said. I do not think that has been satisfactory. As I said, this is an important issue. Not a lot of people are affected, to say the least. The majority of suppliers of medicines in Sweden are affiliated to the medical insurance, which provides protection for the patient. That's great. But there are some suppliers who are not affiliated with the insurance, and there are patients who get these medicines at the pharmacy and leave without being informed about this. It places the entire responsibility on the patient and on it to google in Fass or anything else to see if the medicine is insured or uninsured. It would not involve significant costs to provide information on whether the medicine is insured or uninsured to the patient, but instead we place the whole responsibility on the patient, who, moreover, does not know that it has a responsibility to find out whether the medicine is insured or uninsured. The patient may not even know the difference between an insured and an uninsured drug. That's what we do today. It is positive that the Minister is not satisfied or satisfied with this, but, as I said, something has to happen. We need to move forward on this issue. I don't think it's patient-proof that people get prescriptions for an insured drug, go to the pharmacy and get it replaced on the recommendation of TLV – for example, for the period – and leave with an uninsured drug. It's not satisfying.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-246	Madam President, I would like I want to be sure that the problem of certain medicines being sold without insurance is given a solution that is both sustainable and works for everyone involved. It must be noted, however, that what has happened after these two investigations is neither a long-term nor a sustainable solution. In addition, it poses a risk that the information responsibilities that would be placed at pharmacies would crowd out other important information for those who are going to use the medicinal products. It is not a desirable or sustainable direction to go in, and therefore the criticism was also completely massive in this part. If you are going to say something in general about the Swedish pharmaceutical insurance, again to those who listen to the debate, it is that in the early 70s an investigation was set up with the task of, among other things, investigating issues relating to compensation for damage caused by medicines. That report, which came in 1976, proposed the introduction of compulsory insurance. In connection with the preparation of the report, the pharmaceutical industry presented a voluntary solution in the form of a pharmaceutical insurance policy. As a result, the insurance we have today came into existence in 1978. Thus, unlike patient insurance, which is governed by the Patient Injury Act and which applies to injuries incurred in connection with healthcare, this insurance is still voluntary. It now turns out that the direction in which we might rather want to go and which perhaps would be the only reasonable one, that is to say, towards an obligatory if you are included in the benefit, seems to be contrary to European directives. At the same time, I also think it is important to emphasise what Jenny Petersson says. Then you should know that one case where someone is adversely affected by an uninsured medicine is enough to make it a case too much and unacceptable. However, in order not to add to the anxiety unnecessarily, I can say that we have, of course, followed the way things look. The pharmaceutical insurance has provided data on uninsured pharmaceutical packaging for the year 2016 to the Ministry. According to the pharmaceutical insurance estimates, 91 000 packages were sold in 2016 within the pharmaceutical benefit that were not part of the Swedish pharmaceutical insurance. Then you should know that in 2016, a total of 92 million pharmaceutical packages were treated within the benefit at pharmacies. Of them, 91,000 were uninsured. That is 91 000 for many – let me emphasise that. Should anyone be affected, it is definitely totally unacceptable, but we are down to per mille levels actually. There is currently no decision on the choice of the road on this issue. Which is the best solution must continue to be analysed by our experts. It is also a legal analysis on which it may not be entirely appropriate to have a discussion here. One advantage of introducing insurance requirements for a medicinal product to benefit from the medicine benefit is that pharmacies could devote their time to other things and it would be clear to the patient that the medicinal product is covered. We must try to find ways, and we will come back as soon as the issue is fully analysed.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-252	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. There are several problems with the Minister's fine words. The investigations – there were two – came a very long time ago. Or maybe it wasn't really long ago, but they came and got laid. Investigations that lie behind us become obsolete after a while. If the Minister has seen that something needs to be done, no concrete action has been taken to this end. Nothing new has been done, but the question is being prepared and turned around in the Tombola of the Ministry of Social Affairs, it seems, and nothing comes out. It's taken a long time. We know this problem today – we are standing here debating it here today. There are 91 000 packages sold that are uninsured. It is a small part of the total, absolutely, but it is 91 000 packages containing medicines that are uninsured. They come to patients who we know will not receive any compensation if they suffer an injury. We know about this, and yet nothing is done. That's what's deeply troubling. It is also worrying that there would be a great damage today, we have known about the problem but have done nothing. It is even more worrying that, should there be a great deal of damage and that should happen because a government agency, the TLV, has made an exchange for an uninsured drug, we stand here and have known it but done nothing concrete. I think it is time for us to move from fine words to action so that something is done.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-256	Madam President, I would like That is also why I thought it was very important during this interpellation debate to explain the background and because the previous government was not able to resolve the issue satisfactorily. Moving forward with a solution that is not only completely sawn by all the relevant bodies – I counted in my interpellation response all these bodies – I think would be directly irresponsible and might also lead to displacement effects in terms of relevant pharmaceutical information vis-à-vis the citizens. On the part of the government, I have made it clear that we see this as an important issue. We are analysing the issue. There are legal perspectives on this. We intend to come back and remedy this as soon as we have a sufficiently good solution.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-258	Madam President, I would like Jenny Petersson has asked me how I and the government intend to ensure that all girls and boys receive the best possible vaccine and what follow-up responsibility I and the government believe we have when it comes to the best use of the funds provided by the government. One of the single most important actions in the field of public health has been the introduction of vaccination programmes at population level. Within the general vaccination programme for children, all children and adolescents are offered vaccinations to prevent a number of infectious and serious diseases. Since 1 July 2015, the Public Health Authority has been responsible for the national vaccination programmes. The Government decides, based on evidence from the Public Health Agency, which diseases are to be covered by national vaccination programmes. The Swedish Public Health Agency has developed a work model to ensure that the process of developing the data is clear, transparent and that decisions are based on the best available knowledge. The process involves other authorities as well as external experts and an open consultation procedure.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-261	The county council and the municipalities are responsible for implementing the national vaccination programmes. This obligation also includes the procurement of vaccines necessary for the implementation of the programmes. As Jenny Petersson says, there are today three different vaccines against HPV. All vaccines provide protection against HPV infections that can lead to cancer, and even available vaccines also provide protection against condyloma. The Government's decision that a disease should be covered by a national vaccination programme does not govern the administration and municipalities as to which vaccine is to be procured and offered. It is the responsibility of the Member States to organise health care so that all citizens have access to good care. The municipal self-governance means that county councils can adapt their activities to the regional conditions. The Landstingen also has its own responsibility for the internal control of operations. The inspection of care and care, IVO, is responsible for supervision in the health care sector. As regards Jenny Petersson's question about the government's follow-up responsibility, the Swedish Public Health Agency is tasked with following different aspects of the national vaccination programmes in order to make improvements and ensure that the programmes work optimally. The Public Health Agency submits an annual progress report to the Government on the national vaccination programmes, and I feel confident about that.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-265	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Annika Strandhäll! Vaccination of girls with regard to HPV was introduced, just as the Minister said, in 2010 in the national general vaccination programme for children. The main aim was to provide protection against cervical cancer. Since then, knowledge of HPV-related cancers and the race epidemiology has increased. In September 2017, the Swedish Public Health Agency informed the government that boys should also be given the vaccine. I just want to highlight that nothing has happened there either. The government is responsible for its resources and its budget. Today, funds are being provided for the general vaccination programme for children. In view of the fact that the vaccine is financed through funds to Sweden's K o mmuner and L andsting, it should be clear that the protective effect is very important in our general vaccination programme and that it should be the best protection. Otherwise, the point of having national general vaccination programmes disappears. I can see, as I said, that, unfortunately, the protection effect was not prioritised in the proposal made by the central purchasing office at the Swedish municipalities and county councils, but the price was given a great deal of priority. I think that the government has a responsibility when it provides funds precisely for a certain protective effect to be achieved. I understand Annika Strandhäll's answer when it comes to who is responsible. Municipalities and county councils have their responsibilities. The government has its responsibilities. And the Riksdag has its responsibilities. However, it is distressing that the government does not follow up and ensure that the funds made available go to the purchase of the vaccine that has the best protective effect. That is why I woke up this interpellation, Madam President.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-270	Madam President, I would like When vaccination against HPV was introduced into the general vaccination programme for children and started to be offered to all girls, just as Jenny Petersson says, not the same knowledge as today about how the vaccine can affect the spread of HPV and protect against the forms of HPV-related cancer that most often affects men. This would justify that all boys should now also be offered the vaccine. The Swedish Public Health Agency has investigated the issue and considers that vaccination against HPV for boys meets the criteria of the disease protection law and that it can therefore be included in the national general vaccination programme for children. Vaccination within a general programme is considered to reduce the spread and burden of infection. It can also be socio-economically cost-effective and does not constitute any ethical or humanitarian obstacles. The public health authority's documentation has been referred, and the end date was 15 May when we received the referrals. The matter is now being prepared in the Government Office on that basis. We'll get back to you. So it is not that nothing has been done. The matter has been for a referral. The second issue is to offer the most cost-effective and effective HPV vaccine. There are at least 13 different types of HPV that can cause cancer. All three HPV vaccines currently on the market protect against the two types that cause the most cases of cancer, namely HPV-16 and HPV-18. It has also been observed that existing vaccines can also provide some cross-protection, i.e. also protect against other related HPV types. But, as I said, everyone protects against HPV types 16 and 18, which cause the most cancers among both women and men. The vaccine to be offered within a national programme depends on what is being procured, and that is the responsibility of the county councils. The public health authority does not have the right to prescribe the type of vaccine, but only for age groups, number of doses and intervals. A recommendation would restrict the autonomy of the county councils and would be likely to make procurement more difficult, as the recommendation would govern the choice of vaccine and thus the supplier. This would significantly restrict or distort competition. As all three HPV vaccines provide protection against HPV types 16 and 18, which cause the majority of HPV-related cancer cases, according to the Public Health Authority there is no reason to recommend one vaccine above another. That's their conclusion. With regard to Jenny Petersson's reason for arousing this interpellation, we have, of course, also been familiar with the issue of the ongoing procurement through SKL Kommentus. They have informed that nothing is yet clear on the design of the procurement. A draft contract has been submitted for consultation. After that, SKL's experts will examine how it should be designed. The procurement is expected to expire at the beginning of August, as it stands now. According to SKL Kommentus, it cannot be claimed that, on the basis of this draft, SKL would reward price before protective effect. The final nature of the procurement is not yet known. That is the answer that we have received from SKL and that I wanted to convey to Jenny Petersson in this important interpellation debate.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-279	Madam President, I would like As I said, the HPV virus can cause several different cancers in both men and women. Sweden has a unique chance to prevent this for future generations. Many people of our age are affected, but it is now possible to prevent and prevent them. The government is ultimately responsible and provides funds for the general vaccination programme for children. The Public Health Agency has its share in this work. It is gratifying that the Minister has been familiar with the matter and that it has demanded that the Swedish Municipalities and County Council report on the progress of the matter. Only such a thing can have an effect. We do not know the outcome today, but sometimes it has different effects than you think, and it can give positive rings on the water. It would be a good thing to reward the protective effect. Around Europe, where HPV has been dealt with, there have been clear requirements to reward the protective effect. It would be gratifying if we in Sweden also did so for our future generations. Priority should also be given to including boys in the general vaccination programme.
i-8yCknqvroavHQsVqubwNyx	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jenny Petersson! It is extremely gratifying to note that we can now vaccinate against HPV. It is also extremely interesting to follow developments. Like Jenny Petersson, there are three different vaccines, 2-valent, 4-valent and 9-valent. As I said in my previous post, all three vaccines protect against the most common types, i.e. HPV-16 and HPV-18. These are the types that most often – in about 70% of cases – cause cervical cancer. HPV 16 and 18 can also be linked to other types of cancer, such as cancer of the labia, vagina, rectum, mouth and throat. In addition, the 4- and 9-valent vaccines shun HPV types 6 and 11 which cause 90% of all condyloma cases. The 9-valent vaccine – the most potent vaccine – also provides protection against HPV types 31, 33, 45, 52 and 58. Just as Jenny Petersson says, they have a greater protective effect. Now we have to wait for what will finally be landed in and what the referral bodies have responded to SKL's referral on the basis of their first draft. The procurement is expected to expire at the beginning of August. When it comes to HPV vaccination, which should also include boys, we received the referrals in mid-May. We are currently preparing the issue in the Government Office. What I would like to add in relation to this type of vaccination is precisely the importance of vaccination. There, the Public Health Agency also has a mission to inform parents. In Sweden we do not have a compulsory vaccination of children and young people, but it is an offer that parents have to decide on. There are worrying trends in Europe and the rest of the world in recent years. There are many different, perhaps not always completely truthful, claims about vaccinations, which are the most effective way of ensuring that diseases that are directly deadly are eradicated.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-288	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I will begin where the Minister concluded on the importance of vaccination. These are issues that I have highlighted in this House that relate to everything from how you look at criminal liability to how you look at obligatory. We are very fortunate today because of the responsibility of previous generations. By vaccination, many diseases have been eradicated. As the Minister says, it is worrying that these diseases flare up from time to time. I agree with the importance of vaccinating, taking that responsibility and the importance of the authorities and the government following the matter. Back to the HPV virus: As the Minister says, there are today three different vaccines against HPV. They are divided into categories according to their effectiveness. Unfortunately, about 80 percent of the population of the HPV virus meets at some point in their lifetime. In most people it heals, but some — nearly 1,200 — get some form of cancer because the infection does not heal. A lot of people survive, but some don't. It is therefore gratifying that there is a vaccine coming, that it is given to girls and that it will hopefully be given to boys. I would like to conclude by thanking Parliament and the President for this term of office and wishing you a pleasant summer. I would also like to thank you for my years in Parliament.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-293	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jenny Petersson, for an important and urgent interpellation that highlights a very important issue and that affects a lot of Swedes. It will be exciting to follow the continued process. I would also like to extend warm thanks for the exciting and important debates that we have had. I would also like to extend my warm thanks to the President and the Parliament.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-295	Madam President, I would like Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell has asked me whether the work on investigating the issue of whether a comprehensive regulation of the confidentiality of interpreters has begun, and whether the government in connection with that work will examine the question of re-establishing absolute secrecy for priests and pastors. The obligation of professional secrecy for interpreters is regulated by the Act on professional secrecy of certain interpreters and translators. The question of how the Riksdag's announcement to have the matter examined should be dealt with appropriately at present within the Government Office.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-297	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for the answer I have received from the Government, although I am not entirely satisfied. The fact that the Government Office prepares the question after a unanimous parliament has made an announcement is a matter of course. That's what the government's gonna do. So that's not news to me. As I said when the issue was debated in the House in January, this is a matter of great urgency. It is important that the investigation is launched as soon as possible. In my constituency, Örebro County, there are many sign-language speakers. One third of all Swedish sign-speaking people live in Örebro in connection with the Swedish National Upper Secondary School for the deaf and hearing-impaired. As early as the 1990s, I wrote a motion to the Landstingsförbundet about the state grant for sign language interpretation, which was mainly distributed according to the number of residents and not according to the number of users. There was really no change in this so I continued to take up that part when I entered the Riksdag. It distinguished 1 000 SEK per interpreting assignment between Örebro County, which received the least, and the county council that received the most in state funding. I did not think that this could be accepted, but that the state should handle this fairly. 40 years ago there were about 500 authentic orated interpreters in our country. Today, 40 years later, it has increased slightly to over 1,000. However, demand is still many times higher, especially from the Finnish Immigration Service and courts. The authorisation, which involves documented knowledge in the field of justice in particular, but also in the field of healthcare, provides a legal basis for confidentiality so as not to disclose information arising from interpreting assignments. In fact, it was a sign language interpreter who contacted me and pointed out that we in Parliament had to change this because this was not possible. The sign language interpreter thought, of course, that everyone should use authorised interpreters– it was the interpreter himself– but pointed out that this did not work very well. When an authority uses an interpreter, confidentiality is always subject to the Publicity and Confidentiality Act, OSL, regardless of whether the interpreter is authorised or not. An authorised interpreter is always bound by professional secrecy, regardless of his mandate, while an interpreter who is not authorised is not covered by this outside the sphere of authority. In association and civil society, which the Government knows so well, it is very common to take help from members: You use members as interpreters. It is probably a cost issue, but it is probably also because the number of interpreters is limited. We know that if an unauthorised interpreter is engaged in a soul-care conversation with a priest or pastor, this is not covered by the statutory obligation of professional secrecy, because churches and communities are not authorities. My first interpellation question was about how the work has gone. Can we count on a parliamentary inquiry or a single investigation? Is any investigators appointed?
i-f790507cf9c0f341-304	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell, for interpellation one and for your commitment to the issue and the way you run it! The issue of legislation falls under the responsibility of the Minister of Justice, but I have provided myself with the latest update on what is going on. It is worth recalling, however, that during the last parliamentary term it took an average of three years for the then government to respond to Parliament's announcements. The fact that it takes so long is not desirable, but we are working to not only face but actually respond to announcements as quickly as we can. As I said in my first speech, work is under way to find out how to respond to this. It is far too early to answer who will do the investigation, how it will be investigated or exactly what the scope of the investigation will be or what the directives will look like.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-307	Madam President, I would like I think I can agree with the Government that interpreters are important. They are an important resource and enable people who speak different languages to communicate with each other. This applies to sign languages as well as foreign languages. It's all about the same problem. In the exercise of public authority at national level, interpreters are involved not least in legal policy issues but also in social services and health care to ensure that the information is communicated in a secure and professional manner. According to Kammarkollegiet, there were 225 sign language interpreters and 824 interpreters in foreign languages in January, a total of 1,049. Of them 242 were interpreters and 172 were interpreters with special knowledge of the medical field. Access to licensed interpreters varies across the country. They are undoubtedly in short supply. It is not enough for a long time when the need for Swedish authorities is so great. With today's increasing number of asylum seekers, more qualified interpreters are needed to achieve faster integration. The authorisation shall ensure that the information contained in the interpretation in the form of calls and writings is correctly transmitted with a high linguistic standard and that confidentiality applies. In connection with the KU's handling of my motion, it emerged that the absolute secrecy of priests and pastors they still believe they have ended at the turn of the millennium – 18 years ago! With the separation of the Church of Sweden from the state, they lost their confidentiality. In view of this, I asked my second interpellation question: will the government, in connection with this work, also examine the question of re-establishing absolute secrecy for priests and pastors? If we are now to investigate the issue of introducing a statutory obligation of professional secrecy for unauthorised interpreters who carry out assignments in association, in business, in private and within the church, it would be strange if the confidentiality of confessions were to be weaker. That's my point. Will the government consider this? An absolute obligation of secrecy means that priests and pastors must not disclose, nor should they be required to testify before the courts on information obtained during confession or soul - care talks. I wonder: Is this not the case today? Can a priest or pastor today be required to testify to what has come out of confession? The law on this has fallen. It is important to have a solid trust in conversations such as these. In a tense situation, you must be able to tell about difficult events that you have experienced or that you have witnessed. It is extremely important that this opportunity exists and one should be able to know that it does not spread further. Today, this can be dealt with in the area of labour law within the respective communities. If the priest snitches, he'll be derailed. So the priest hopefully loses his job if he talks next to his mouth. I don't think it's strong enough. There should be legal secrecy even for priests and pastors. Now that we are talking about strengthening the confidentiality of interpreters, we should look at how important it is also to have such clarity on these extremely sensitive occasions.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-314	Madam President, I would like I share Nordell's assessment of the importance of having an interpreter system that works. Of course, it is absolutely crucial that people feel confident that they are properly translated and understood, and what information they share. It is not too often a matter of very sensitive information. The announcement made by the Riksdag to the Government will be answered and lived up to. However, the details that the honourable Member is asking for about how it is going to happen and what will be covered do not belong to me. They do not even have the Minister of Justice, who has the legislation on his table, yet. But as soon as it's done, the Minister of Justice will be happy to share that information.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-316	Madam President, I would like I understand it could be that way. This wasn't in the announcement. On the other hand, it was included in the dossier, where the committee noted that this law ended at the turn of the millennium. So it cannot be unknown to the government that this is the way it is. It is great that the Minister shares my view that the information should be safe and secure. What I am referring to in the second question is this about strengthening the confidentiality of interpreters who are not currently covered by the legally-founded obligation of professional secrecy. If we now agree on that, it would surely be strange – and I think most people would find that odd – if the confidentiality of the clergy and pastors to be interpreted in these contexts were not to be ensured in a different way from being dealt with solely in the area of labour law. That is my point on the second question. I would also, of course, like to thank the Government for the work done during its term of office and wish it a happy summer.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-319	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by giving my warm thanks and the same happy wish back. This parliamentary term has been exciting and interesting in many ways, not least when we have met here in Parliament. With regard to the questions concerning the interpreters' conditions and regulations, I will gladly run into the Minister of Justice with further questions on how the work is progressing. Furthermore, I will of course interfere with as many of the crucial questions to which we need answers as possible in terms of the ways in which they are covered.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-321	Madam President, I would like Jeff Ahl has asked me what the government intends to do to counteract the continued impact of Islam on Swedish society. In Sweden, freedom of religion prevails. It follows from both the form of government and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which has been the law of Sweden since 1995. In Sweden, every citizen is the universal guaranteed freedom of expression, information, assembly, demonstration, association and religious freedom. Freedom of religion means a right for individuals to choose religion but also to choose not to have faith. No one must be forced into religion, but there is no right to see or hear religious expressions in their daily lives. A government should not operate in breach of the laws and rules that are laid down, but we should ensure that they are complied with. There is nothing that the government holds as high as Sweden's fundamental rights and freedoms, and we will continue to protect and defend them.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-326	Madam President, I would like The negative consequences of mass immigration and multicultural society have been considerable for Sweden. This is part of the globalist agenda. By destroying former ethnically and culturally homogeneous, secure and well-functioning democratic societies, they hope that the nation states will be dissolved. This globalism will be the strongly growing party Alternatives for Sweden to fight with full force. It was recently revealed that several of the preschools around our big cities have stated that they are prepared to force children to wear a veil. We have seen how the Swedish judicial system has judged according to Islamic law, i.e. sharia. We have seen how the sick leaf parties in this House have been associated with Islamists. Examples of this are when the Social Democrats and the Green Party put an Islamist as a minister in the government. Another example is when, a few years ago, the Moderates put an Islamist on the Committee on Defence. The important thing about this interpellation is to see the whole and highlight it. Islamisation is only part of globalism and only part of the multicultural breakdown. Mass immigration and Islamisation are ultimately only a tool for the globalists, a tool aimed at achieving the agenda of transferring all power from former free peoples to a small globalist elite. The greatest threat to the agenda of the globalists is ethnically and culturally homogeneous societies, for united and secure peoples will stop the anti-democratic power aspirations of the globalists. That is why Orbán's defence of the Hungarian people's right to its own country, its national specificity and democracy is given such stinging criticism by EU bureaucrats and even this government. The reason why certain globalist parties, such as the Moderates and the Social Democrats, are starting to turn rhetorically is a desperate need to remain in power. Politics, on the other hand, does not change. Had they really wanted to stop the consequences of globalism, they would have done what Alternatives for Sweden demand, namely to send home all those who try to force on us Swedes their way of life and those who have come here to parasite on the welfare system. Madam President, I would like Those who represent the globalist ideology believe that it was worth importing mass rapes, Islam, prayer eutrope, Islamic terrorism, cultural divisions, gang crime and more to divide Sweden. Divide and rule is the classic instrument of power and the tools of the globalists. But you've been seen through. More and more people realize what you're doing. When the return of all system-burdening immigrants is completed, when mosques are no longer found on the Swedish bottom, when no veils are visible on Swedish streets and when we have left the EU, we democratic nationalists have won. Then we have also replaced the globalist establishment with a nationalist one that protects Sweden and Swedes' security and our right to freedom, our democracy and our national specificity.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-333	Madam President, I would like In Sweden, within the framework of our democracy, we have been able to build up outstanding successes. Generations of Swedes before us have been able to build peace, prosperity, freedom and democracy on a scale that arouses admiration in the outside world thanks to enormous ingenuity and hard work. The foundations for Sweden's success are democratic and liberal values. Our freedoms, including freedom of expression, information, freedom of assembly and freedom of religion, are written in law and are crucial to what constitutes the basis for Sweden. If we had not had these freedoms, Sweden would not have been the country that Sweden is. Madam President, I would like Sweden is part of a cultural and political tradition based on liberal rights. It is our rights and the obligations that come with those who have built Sweden strongly and that have given us political freedom, economic prosperity and opportunities beyond what previous generations – as many people today – could dream of. Madam President, I would like All this Jeff Ahl wants to destroy. On the basis of limited nationalism, freedoms and democracy must be dismantled, minorities hunted and freedom of expression restricted. That's what Jeff Ahls's ideology means. Everywhere in the world where this one-fold policy has been tried, it has led to the abyss.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-336	Madam President, I would like It's not often I give the Minister of Culture the right. I'll give her the right thing. The Swedes and Sweden were a people and a country that one previously looked up to, but not anymore. Today, for example, it is Viktor Orbán's Hungary which is an example, while Sweden is exactly the opposite with the politicians who have ruled this country. Madam President, I would like Islamisation is driven by the EU, because it is one of the largest international institutions in the hands of the globalists. The EU wants to force countries that refuse to submit to Muslim immigration in order for them to be Islamised. This applies, for example, to Hungary. You globalists are using this foreign anti-democratic ideology because you feel connected to it, because you yourself are marked anti-democrats. I would like the Minister for Culture to address one of the cameras we have here and, above all, the Swedes who have been convicted of inciting ethnic groups for criticising Islamisation or immigration. I would like the Minister to explain to them why their tax money taken from their salary, for which they have worked hard, should be used to prevent them from using their constitutional right to express an opinion in their own country. Please explain this and how you get along with the freedoms you just stood and praised. I would like the Minister of Culture to address all the victims of rape who have suffered as a result of your mass import of culturally incompatible individuals into Sweden. Explain to them why the justice system should be overloaded with this type of blasphemy trials that the trials on incitement to ethnic groups are in practice instead of trying to solve all the rape cases that Swedish girls and women today suffer. Madam President, I would like Here we see exactly what happens when sick leaves and their parties govern. They rule by means of Islamism and so-called feminism. This means, in practice, that the Swedish people suffer for it. The globalist establishment of the sick leaf parties, non-governmental PK organisations and the regime loyal media that sold out this country will be severely judged in the history books. You will be remembered forever by descendants of Swedes whom those who let in strangers who gradually took over this country. Fortunately, the Swedes have faced greater threats in history and managed to cope with them. Alternatives for Sweden are the political party that can and wants to save Sweden's future. It is we who can lead Sweden out of this crisis that you have created. It is we who can bring democracy back to the Swedish people. Madam President, I would like Globalism is the great threat. Islam and Islamization are just one of several tools for these dark forces. I would like to emphasise that. Islamisation is only part of multicultural society. I would also like to emphasise that. But it is the multicultural breakdown that destroys Sweden most here and now. What is needed is that all those who refuse to adapt to the Swedish way of life simply have to go home.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-343	Madam President, I would like I'm here to answer Jeff Ahls's question about what to do to counteract the influence of religion Islam. I have answered that question clearly, and I will do it again. I will not restrict people's freedom to believe what they want. On the contrary, I will devote all my strength to defending the freedoms that generations of Swedes before us have had to fight hard for. This applies, among other things, to freedom of religion. The countries that Jeff Ahl and his fellow opinion tend to point out as role models are horror examples of how democracy is dismantled and how freedoms are restricted. These are countries where the free media are pointed out as enemies of the nation. These are countries where culture is used as a tool for the power to get its way. These are countries such as Hungary, Poland and Russia. These are countries that, according to many estimates, are negative examples of democratic development. That's where Jeff Ahl wants to take Sweden. In his dream society, democracy is being dismantled. There people become free, freedom of speech is strangled and minorities are subjected to violence and abuse. I am prepared to fight with all possible democratic means for our freedoms and for Sweden to be a free and democratic country.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-348	Madam President, I would like It's fascinating what fantasies the Minister of Culture stands out here. Let me read from the Qur'an: Prophet! Tell your wives and daughters — and all believing women — that outside the home they carefully wrap their outer garments; in this way they are more easily recognized as decent women and avoid being molested. This, then, is the religion, or rather ideology, that this government defends with full force. It is no secret to most of us that feminism is an anti-woman ideology, because feminists are often quick to defend this anti-woman ideology. Our feminist government has been openly associated with Islamist forces. Islam's prophet Muhammed had a child of a wife. She was only six years old when he married her. So this religion considers our feminist government worthy of defending and standing up for, and it will take more and more place in our country. Madam President, I would like We want to maintain freedom of religion. What people do in their private sf is no one's got anything to do with. However, as Swedish politicians, it is our task to restrict Islam's place in the public space as far as possible and to make Sweden an unattractive country for practicing Muslims to live in. This is the country of the Swedes. It is the Swedes who have the traditional and natural right to live here. The Muslims have several countries to live in. If they have moved from them, they have to adapt to the country they come to. It is you who restrict freedom of expression. It is you who judge Swedes in court because they use their right to have an opinion. Our children will grow up in a safe and culturally homogeneous Sweden. Sweden ate the Swedes, and the Swedes ate Sweden!
i-f790507cf9c0f341-354	Madam President, I would like Once again, I would like to answer the question put to me by Jeff Ahl, to which I have come to answer. The answer is no. I will not work against the Constitutions of the Kingdom of Sweden, unlike Jeff Ahl. I will not restrict our constitutional freedoms. People in our country have the right to believe in what they want, and I will always defend that right. The great conflict is between narrow nationalism and the democratic rule of law. Where nationalism mystifies, irrational, emotional and stupid, the rule of law is just, rational and leads to freedom and prosperity. It is therefore both sad and shameful for me that there is a person in the Swedish Parliament arguing for restrictions on our constitutionally protected freedoms. Next is freedom of expression, freedom of assembly, freedom of the media and artistic and cultural freedom. That has been the case every time, and so it would be again this time if Jeff Ahl were to advise and act. However, we who defend the rule of law and our democratic liberal rights are many more. We can both protect our constitutions and our freedoms while taking on the challenges we have today and the challenges that will come. We can both protect our constitutions and our freedoms while taking on the challenges we have today and the challenges that will come. But we need to get organized, because we're getting stronger together.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-359	Madam President, I would like Mr Jomshof has asked whether I would like to introduce a similar ban and take similar measures here in Sweden as in Austria, where, among other things, foreign funding of religious groups has been prohibited by law. Freedom of religion is protected in the Swedish constitution and in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. This means that everyone has the right to practice his religion alone or in union with others. Sweden should strive to be a pioneer country – a country that stands up for people's rights with a high level of legal certainty. At the same time, it is the government's priority to ensure that the state aid allocated to various organisations goes to activities that are compatible with the fundamental values of society. Several initiatives are under way in this area. The State's support for religious communities in a multicultural Sweden was handed over to the government this spring. The report proposes, among other things, a new regulatory framework for support for religious communities, a clarified democracy criterion and the possibility of excluding and withdrawing support for faith communities that do not meet these criteria. In addition, in March this year, the government has appointed an investigation into the conditions of democracy in all government grants. The purpose of the investigation is, among other things, to prevent an organisation that carries out an activity that is contrary to or contrary to the fundamental values of society from being financed by public funds. A review of the rules of the General Succession Fund is also under way. The investigator will propose, among other things, how a condition for support can be designed to ensure that grants only go to organisations that respect the values of a democratic society in their activities. The government does not intend to shut down mosques, temples, churches, synagogues or other religious gatherings, or to take similar measures.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-366	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. The threat of Islamism is very serious. We in our part of the world have previously been spared the oppression and misery that people in North Africa and parts of Central Africa and the Middle East have been forced to endure daily in the name of Islam. However, as a direct result of the increasing amount of immigration we have had for a long time, it is no longer in this way, but these are things that we are now experiencing here in our part of the world – in Western Europe and in Sweden. In recent years Islamists have also gained more and more space here in Sweden. They have gained more and more influence and power both in Western Europe and here in Sweden. It is not only the case that we have been hit by a long series of terrible Muslim terrorist attacks in recent years – attacks in which radical Muslims have attacked innocents with everything from trucks to bombs, guns, axes and knives. We can also see how the Islamists have moved forward their positions – and in the case here in Sweden, in fact, with the good memory of the government – through, for example, the admission of prayer eutrope and various forms of women's oppression. Islamism is spread not least from many of the mosques on Swedish soil today. It is about a wide range of mosques linked to Islamic villain states – mosques spreading hatred against women, homosexuals, Jews and non-Muslims and against our democratic institutions. They are mosques which serve as a haven for Islamists and terrorists. Madam President, I would like For those who are familiar, it is no secret that Islamic countries such as Saudi Arabia finance Muslim parishes and mosques in Sweden. There is no need to look closely at this issue in order to realise and understand that this funding is a conscious strategy. It is about gaining influence in Western Europe and in Sweden. One might think that a government that calls itself feminist and claims to stand up for democracy should take this issue seriously. One might think that such a government should be interested not only in finding out how widespread this is but also in trying to discourage such funding. One might also think – at least I do – that one should side with and stand on the same side as the women, homosexuals, Jews, but also non-Muslims who are violated in these mosques by these Islamists. In Austria, however, unlike in Sweden, the fight against Islamism has been taken very seriously. I am not talking about the fight against religious freedom, but about the fight against Islamism. In 2015, a law prohibiting foreign financing of mosques, among other things, was introduced. It applies to religious groups in general, but primarily was the mosques they aimed for. This means having a fundamental vision that sets out the values that Austrian society is considered to be permeated with. It is with the support of this law that Austria has now decided to close down seven mosques and expel perhaps as many as 60 imams if it now turns out that they have received support from other countries. Sebastian Kurz, Chancellor of Austria, defends the decision to say, among other things, that there is no place in Austria for parallel societies, political Islam and radicalisation. I agree; it should be the same here in Sweden. That is why I ask the question: why does the government not want to investigate the matter more closely? Why does the government not want to know to what extent Muslim congregations and mosques receive foreign contributions and from which countries these contributions come? And are these contributions associated with some kind of counterclaim? That should be very interesting to know. Why does the government allow this to happen, and why does it not intervene against this form of funding?
i-f790507cf9c0f341-375	Madam President, I would like As far as the ban on financing by foreign actors is concerned, there is certainly no such work on the table of the Minister of Justice. But when it comes to prosecuting and investigating possible crimes, such as incitement to homosexuals or incitement to violence, this is an issue on which the government has since the date on which we took office put a great deal of effort and focus. As I began my answer to Mr Jomshof's question by mentioning, we have set up a series of investigations and we have now received a series of proposals. We've also tightened up. It is more powerful than ever before under any previous government. At the moment, there is even a clearer approach to state aid to organisations. Hopefully, with regard to state support for religious communities, we will be given additional tools now that we proceed with the referrals that we have received on the investigation that I also mentioned in my reply. It is totally unacceptable to me that taxpayers' money should risk going to forces that do not live up to fundamental democratic rights and values. There are previous examples of organisations that have received state aid that have stood on Sergel's square and incited violence. It's terrible. That is unacceptable, and there we must have a clearer regulatory framework on many levels on the ground. We have now ensured that we take clear steps towards this, and it was not there before we formed a government. Taxpayers should feel confident that their money works for what we all want our country to be and embrace – nothing else. However, as I said, there is no such ongoing work on banning funding from foreign operators.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-381	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. The question in this case, in my interpellation, was actually about foreign funding. That is what I think is the important thing in this context. The question is not new. It has been noted on several occasions that Islamic states are funding parishes, mosques, schools and even orphanages in other parts of Europe to spread their messages. That is the purpose of the funding. In this case, it is not a question of a peaceful mission; it is not comparable to Christianity, for example. It is about spreading a fundamentally hateful message. And it is not just a question of increasing segregation and division, but one's aim is to gain power, influence and, in the long term, also control over our part of the world. That is precisely the purpose of their mission, or whatever you call it. We know that today there are at least six mosques funded by Saudi Arabia and four financed by Qatar, for example. Both of these countries recognize or belong to Wahhabism. It is perhaps the most literal version of Sunniislam. It is totally disgusting in view of the views actually being preached. In these cases, we are talking about countries that fund terrorist organisations. They allow slave - like conditions for foreign labor and use torture, mutilation, and beheading. Women's rights are severely limited. Many times there is a complete lack of freedom of expression. Regim critics and homosexuals are being persecuted and so on and so on. I know that at least ten mosques in our country have been funded by these two rogue states. There is a wide range of other financiers: Turkey, Libya, Iran, Kuwait, Pakistan and others. Nor are they a democratic example. I ask myself: what are the government and the minister doing about this? Unfortunately, the answer will be: nothing. You can almost get the impression that they shrug their shoulders a little, look in another direction and pretend it's raining. That is exactly what these issues are about. I know that there is a lot of good work being done in Sweden – I admit and agree with that – but not in relation to this foreign funding. That's the big problem. You just have to do a few searches online to realize that what is happening in our mosques and parishes is very serious. Let me give you just a few examples. A mosque in Borås invited a hate preacher who wants to murder Jews. Someone who visited Järfälla believes that homosexuals should be punished with death. The Security Service went out and announced the arrest of an IS recruiter with links to mosques in Västerås, Jönköping and Eskilstuna. Extreme ideas spread in Uddevalla Mosque. In Växjö Mosque, which we debated not very long ago, there is also a lot of nonsense, hatred and unpleasantness. An imam in Helsingborg calls Jews monkeys and pigs. A mosque in Hässleholm has links to IS and Al-Qaeda. There's so much. The Södermalm Mosque here in Stockholm has links to the Muslim Brotherhood. A spokesperson at Örebro Mosque says that Sharon made pudding on children. These are just examples – it's frightening. Many of these, therefore, have links with these countries, and this is where the problem lies. I think it's crazy that this should be allowed to happen! I really don't understand how the minister and the government think. I think we fully agree that there are certain values that we stand up for. Then we must also dare to fight the forces that are doing what they can to counter these values and try to destroy what we have built up. You cannot do that by having a permissive attitude towards these kinds of countries and people. I think this is terrible! I get the impression that you are unfortunately looking between your fingers. Why do you not want to do anything about the problem? Why do you not want to ban this kind of funding of hatred, which unfortunately is beginning to gain a foothold here in Sweden?
i-f790507cf9c0f341-391	Madam President, I would like It is quite clear that we need clearer, more and better resources to ensure that crimes are not committed in our society as a whole, in associations and organisations, or in various religious communities. Many of the examples mentioned by the honourable Member are terrible. It's a total violation of the law, and they're going to be prosecuted and investigated. Those who have committed the crimes shall be brought to justice, and courts shall impose penalties. Hopefully, the huge increase in resources that this government, to which I belong, has made it possible to get into place in everything from the judiciary to the police, will produce results so that we can investigate these crimes. Because it's actions we judge-- not opinions and what you believe in, but what you actually do. It can be about what one conveys the message or to call for crime or incitement, which is illegal. We must ensure that countries with law are built, that the rule of law has the resources and the muscles to make it clear that the same laws and rules apply to everyone in our country and that no relativism or anything else interferes with this view. For me, this is absolutely crucial: country should be built with teams. As far as the specific legislation on which Mr Jomshof's question is concerned is concerned, there is no case pending at the table of the Minister of Justice. Nor has it been part of the outcome of the talks held by the government parties with the Christian Democrats, the Moderates, the Liberals and the Center Party. On the other hand, these talks have led to much else of what we are doing now, such as strengthening the resources of the police and clarifying the seriousness of the crimes that threaten our democracy and freedom of expression.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-395	Madam President, I would like I think you are doing a lot that is very good; I can very well admit that. But you have to be proactive and be able to intervene before the problem arises here in Sweden. The aim here is not to be rude to the Minister, but there are unfortunately examples showing that there is a kind of infiltration from Islamist circles in several parties on the left, both the Green Party and the Social Democrats. There is also a wide range of articles here. You can read about environmental parties inviting Osama Usama Laden's mentor. Someone refuses to take women in hand. We have environmentalists who are making the sign of the Muslim Brotherhood. Even Kaplan did the same in his time. There are links to these kinds of countries, movements like the Muslim Brotherhood and so on. This has even been highlighted by environmentalists who regret that MP is a haven for Islamists. There are even researchers at the Swedish Defence University who say that the Environmental Party may have been infiltrated by Islamists. There is a very interesting debate article by the author and associate professor Johan Lundberg, who writes among other things: For example, he refers to the Minister's time as Secretary-General of the Youth Board, when grants were paid to Islamists. This is a serious problem. As I said, it is not a case of an accusation against the Minister personally, but I would like to point out the problem when you allow this kind of power to exert influence. One can also consider whether it might be that they are left to rage because they have become such a powerful force even within the parties that are in the government. There are even Islamists in disputed mosques who call on people to vote for the Green Party or the Social Democrats. This is a huge problem, so I had hoped that the government would have dared to deal with the issue of this kind of funding.
i-f790507cf9c0f341-401	Madam President, I would like I think it's of great importance not to spread rumors and lies. When it comes to major and serious issues such as our democracy, the equality of all peoples before the law and the fact that we are to be a law-built country, it is extremely important that we keep our tongues straight and do not make accusations that are not true. If there are suspicions of a crime, the police will investigate them. People are to be tried and tried in court. These are the fundamental principles of the rule of law. When you spread rumors and malicious slanders, you contribute to creating a sense of uncertainty and fear. This, in turn, can counteract the importance of tackling the real and major problems. There are challenges in our society. Let us take them on board, and let us ensure what we in the government have done since we took office and which I already highlighted as Director-General of the previous Government: to review our regulations, because I want very clear regulations to follow. But precisely having regulations to comply with is also a fundamental principle of the rule of law, so that everyone is equally judged. There should be no arbitrariness. When I pay tax and when tax goes to association support, which is part of what has built our society, I will feel confident that everyone is judged on the same harsh premises. It is not a right to receive state aid, for example. Having said that, I would like to conclude this interpellation and probably my last and our discussion in this House for this parliamentary term. I hope to see you again!
