i-HUmngeFSiQ5NKFfEE9GHJk	Mr President, I would like to Then the turn has come to debate a report by the Committee on Social Affairs on pharmacy and medicinal products. It is a report dealing with some sixty requests for exercise from the general exercise period 2016/ 17 and 2017/ 18. Apoteken plays an incredibly important role in health care and health in our country. Every day about 330 000 people visit a pharmacy. It is, of course, important for anyone who sometimes needs to visit a pharmacy that the operation works well and that you can trust that the medicines are available when you need them, that the pharmacy is available and that you get the advice and support in the delivery of the medicines that you need. There was a major reform of pharmacies in 2009. From that day on, availability to pharmacies has increased significantly. Before 2009, Sweden was at the bottom of the OECD as regards access to pharmacies for citizens. The density was 9.9 pharmacies per 1,000 inhabitants. It should be said that Sweden is not quite at its peak yet, although accessibility has increased significantly. Sweden is now about the middle compared to other European countries. However, access to pharmacies has increased in all counties. The part where it is most difficult to maintain good availability in pharmacies is sparsely populated, but we have managed to ensure that the situation remains unchanged. So there has been no reduction. Nevertheless, only 0.4 percent of the population have more than half an hour of easy travel to get to the nearest pharmacy. That is good, given what our country looks like, where it is largely sparsely populated. For most, the densification has meant less than 20 minutes for almost the entire population to the nearest pharmacy, but many today have your pharmacies to choose from within five to ten minutes' journey. Above all, we have seen a big difference in pharmacy opening hours. Prior to the reregulation there were 154 Sunday-open pharmacies throughout the country. Today there are 541 Sunday-open pharmacies. It is clear that such things matter when you experience a high fever and need medicines quickly, or if you have another condition that makes it necessary for you to get hold of what can bring relief for your troubles. The Christian Democrats believe that there is a large untapped resource in the pharmaceutical expertise available in pharmacies. Other reports on pharmacy and medicinal products have already dealt with several of the proposals. Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to mention some of them. In neighbouring countries, the expertise is used to conduct structured drug talks. This help is also given every time someone has recently become ill with a chronic disease. This knowledge and competence is available not only from the doctors but above all from the pharmaceutical staff. They could thus relieve the burden of health care. We want pharmacists to be able to offer healthy, coaching conversations for people who need help to quit smoking, manage stress, reduce alcohol consumption or lose weight. This would make a major contribution to public health. This report highlights a specific issue, namely a review of the genetic engineering system. To keep down the cost of medicines, there is a system whereby a medicine is replaced by a medicine that has the lowest price during that month. Not least for some elderly patients, it can be difficult when the medicine the patient needs every month changes the name, appearance or packaging. We want to review the possibility for pharmacists to make this switch and to extend the period of time that a particular medicine applies to reduce the permanent change. It may be difficult for some people to know which of the drugs they are actually taking. Many people who take medicines take not only one medicine but several. The Christian Democrats want to highlight the issue of orphan drugs in particular. Medicines developed for small patient groups, for people with diseases where only specific medicines can provide relief or improve health, can mean a high cost to the individual. It is important that there are not as big differences as there are today between county councils. Therefore, the State needs to provide increased support on the basis of the same ethical principles for the specific needs of these persons. For time winning, I choose not to demand approval for any of our reservations, but I am of course behind them.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-16	Mr President, I would like to I call for reservations 1 and 5. For the Swedish Democrats, it is important to have a safe, efficient and equal supply of medicines and a pharmacy market with good accessibility and service. Patients should be able to trust that the medicine they collect is available, has the effect it is intended for and that it is insured. Most medicines are covered by the pharmaceutical insurance, but every year hundreds of thousands of uninsured medicines are sold. Injury to these medicinal products has been reported. In connection with each medicinal product, the comprehensive list of the pharmaceutical industry, if covered by the pharmaceutical insurance, is given in Fass. Medicines sold online are not covered by the insurance unless purchased via a pharmacy approved by the MPA. If the medicinal product is insured through the Swedish pharmaceutical insurance, the patient can get both a regulation of the damage and an assessment that gives the opportunity to appeal to the Medical Devices Board. For patient safety, it is essential that the patient knows which medicines have comprehensive insurance cover and who do not. An uninsured medicine can also be selected for the period by the Dental and Pharmaceutical Benefits Agency, and we believe that it must be possible for prescribers and patients to be informed whether or not a medicine chosen for the period is insured. Mr President, I would like to We Swedish democrats protect the elderly in Sweden. It is a group that waits for the longest time to go to the doctor and does not want to take medicines unnecessarily, but it is still the largest user group of medicines. The medicinal product for people aged 75 years and over has increased by nearly 60 per cent over the past 25 years. New, more effective drugs are introduced and new treatment options arise with them. At the same time, drug-related problems in the elderly are increasing and the benefits for the elderly need to be reviewed. Well-functioning treatment is therefore of great importance for these patients, who often have several diseases at the same time. Ageing also changes the body's condition in relation to the effects of drug therapy. However, drug-related problems in the elderly are a major problem, both for the individual and for the health care sector, and the knowledge of this is poor. In order to support increased competence in the field, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has developed an online education aimed primarily at interns. This is positive, but we believe that more research and evaluation is needed on the problems of medicines for the elderly. We also believe that it is important to develop supervision in the pharmacy market and to clarify the basic tasks of pharmacies.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-23	Mr President, I would like to The Liberals have three reservations in this report which I would like to comment on. The first concerns pharmaceutical insurance. It is very good that we in Sweden have a pharmaceutical insurance policy. We didn't have that when the neurosedyn disaster occurred. There started a series of processes. Women who had had side effects from oral contraceptives – blood clots, jaundice and such – started a series of legal damages processes that were both painful and costly. This prompted the idea of introducing a pharmaceutical insurance policy in Sweden so that a more flexible compensation system for serious unexpected drug injuries was introduced. But now, as we have just heard, not all medicines are insured. There are a small number who are not, and it has happened that they have become the product of the month. It has gone well – the companies have been lucky; nothing has happened. But that does not mean that nothing will happen in the future. That is why, as we see it in the Liberals, we must create a system of compulsory insurance. In the meantime, there should be an information responsibility for pharmacies to tell them that this is not an insured medicine. I know that this is a complex issue and that it is being prepared in the Government Office. But we in the Liberals still feel that it is important to point out from the Riksdag that although this is complex, one must not get to grips with the goal. The second point I would like to make is paragraph 4, Financing, subsidies and pricing of medicines. The problem lies above all in very expensive medicines used for the treatment of patients with rare diagnoses. We have discussed this in Parliament time and again, but it is important to raise the issue all the time and hope that the inquiry that will come this autumn will solve the problem. Once the European medicines control system has approved a medicine, the Swedish medicines control system and it has been found that the benefits exceed the risks, the whole thing gets stuck in the fact that the medicine is perceived as too expensive and not economically profitable. Of course, the patients who have been waiting for this medicine and their relatives are suffering very badly in that situation. I have a case description – a boy with Duchenne's muscular dystrophy. It is a disease that mainly affects boys and men. You cannot form muscles, and the last muscle that so to speak gives up is the heart muscle. Now there are drugs coming. There is an approved drug, but it has been considered too expensive in the region where this boy lives. But in a neighbouring region he can have it, and now the family is facing the question: Should we move to the other region? This is gonna be all wrong. We in the Liberals see that, in the case of this group of medicines, national funding must be provided. The costs should not be in an individual county council or region. The third point I want to make is medicines and the elderly. The drugs used most often by year-long individuals, which usually cause drug complications, such as bleeding when using blood thinners, are not actually tested in that age group. It has been considered too difficult to test medicines in year-rich, fragile patients who also use other medicines. The European Medicines Agency has now woken up – after just over ten years of this issue having been on the table – and started taking action. But now the European Medicines Agency is moving from London to Amsterdam, and any transfer of authority is leading to a large staffing gap. At this point, there is also a high level of expertise that you lose. The risk is that the work started by EMA, the European Medicines Agency, will stop. It will then be particularly important for us in Sweden to address this issue as a complement to the work that has been started at EMA. Of the three reservations we have, this is reservation 5, to which I would like to give my assent.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-34	Mr President, I would like to Medicines are a large and very important part of healthcare. Access for all to effective medicines is essential for the equality of health care. Similarly, it is important for our confidence in the care and the results of the care that the handling of medicines is carried out in a safe and responsible manner. As I said, the report we are debating here today deals with some sixty claims. The majority deal with urgent issues such as safe drug management, patient status, safe access to essential medicines and medicines to rare conditions, and good and equal care. A number of breakthroughs have taken place in recent years, not least in the area of cancer. Several effective medicines have been placed on the market which means that more people can live with their disease if they receive the right treatment. We also see that there will be even more medicines in the near future. It is a great challenge for us to ensure that they are implemented in an orderly manner and that there is room for financing them. It is satisfying that most of the shortcomings highlighted in the exercise are already taken care of or have been brought to the attention of the government, which in turn has commissioned authorities to improve or develop. One example is the proposal for exchange that Emma Henriksson raised earlier and that has been exercised about. There is a bill on its way to Parliament, and we are expected to debate and decide on this on 11 June. It is an urgent proposal – just as Emma Henriksson points out, it provides the opportunity for the exchange of a medicine that is outside the benefit of one that is inside, which means lower costs for both the patient and society. The proposals presented by Barbro Westerholm are also those on the way or already taken care of. One example is the problem of financing and pricing rare medicines. It is the subject of the pharmaceutical investigation, which is scheduled to present its proposal on 1 December. When it comes to medicines for the elderly and having a good knowledge of this, as well as briefings, the proposal for a national list of medicines is on its way to Parliament. The National Board of Health and Welfare also has a mandate to make regulations regarding drug reviews for the elderly. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for the reservations to be rejected.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-41	Mr President, I would like to As the previous speaker has said, this is a motion report on pharmacy and medicinal products. The cost of medicines within the benefit is expected to increase from 22.1 billion in 2016 to 26.8 billion in 2019. If we count the costs including own contributions, they will increase from almost 28 billion to 32 billion. That's a lot of money. A number of factors that are crucial for development are the growing and ageing population, which often with age has a greater need for drugs. The number of cancer cases is increasing every year, which is largely due to the fact that Sweden's population is ageing – and that more people live longer with their cancer disease, which is extremely positive. Older women have a higher drug cost than men in the same age group. Why don't I know, but it would be interesting to find out. Another example is that more and more elderly people are picking up blood - fat - lowering drugs. Around 960,000 people – nearly 1 million – had at least one withdrawal of some blood lipid lowering drugs in 2017, and the vast majority were in the older age group. More than one person in three over 65 years of age took some blood lipid lowering medicine at some point in the year. The cost of requisition drugs is also estimated to increase to nearly 9 billion in 2019. Requisition medicines are medicines that are bought by the caregiver and given directly to the patient, for example, inside a hospital. The population is also buying increasingly over-the-counter medicines – sales in 2017 amounted to SEK 4.7 billion. Drug costs are a big expense for the state. We spend almost as much money on drugs as we do on the defense. We will debate this more in the future, when the proposals for increased possibilities for the exchange of medicines and for a national list of medicines come. But it is important that we bear in mind that a lot of money is being spent – which, of course, it must also be allowed to do – so that there is money for this. I'll say a few words about the pharmacies. Today there are 1,392 outpatient pharmacies in Sweden. Since the 2009 reregulation, the number of pharmacies has increased by 463, or 50%. Accessibility has also increased significantly – the average opening per pharmacy has increased by just over ten hours a week. We can see that around the large shopping malls where you go and shop is not unusual that pharmacies are open as long as the larger food chains, i.e. maybe at eleven o'clock in the evening. Furthermore, the number of open pharmacies on Sunday has increased, from 154 to 526. Many of the 154 previously had been open on Sunday in such a way that there was a small gap during the night two hours in the middle of the day where medicines could be collected. Today they are completely open. I must therefore note that the regulation of pharmacies has been successful and has benefited our citizens. The pharmacy's e-commerce has also developed rapidly, and since autumn 2015, all pharmacy chains offer e-commerce via internet pharmacies. The industry does not believe that the number of physical pharmacies will increase as they have so far but that e-commerce will increase. As I said, all pharmacy chains offer e-commerce, and it is very positive that you can get your pharmacy goods home in the mailbox – especially for people who live in sparsely populated areas and have a long way to a physical pharmacy. Minister of Social Affairs Annika Strandhäll was out there a while ago and was evil about the pharmacy's range. This is what she wrote: She also wrote that pharmacies should have medicine as their main task, not makeup or nail polish. That's exactly what she said. I think that was a rather strange statement, since 75% of the turnover is written drugs and 10% of the turnover is non-prescription medicines. Only 15% of the pharmacy's turnover is commercial goods. It shines through the fact that Minister of Social Affairs Strandhäll does not like the re-regulation of the pharmacy market – a re-regulation that has been very successful and successful. Actually, it's not more than ten years since we couldn't buy aspirin or nasal spray at a regular grocery store. I don't think many people want to back up the band, except maybe Minister of Social Affairs Strandhäll. Mr President, I would like to We will debate pharmacy and medicinal products more often in this House before the summer recess, so I would like to thank you for that.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-52	Mr President, audiences, viewers and listeners! The Red-Green feminist government works systematically and purposefully for a long-term sustainable welfare policy. Healthcare is important for everyone's well-being, and how healthcare is managed will therefore be crucial for the extent to which it can contribute to long-term sustainable welfare. How the supply of medicines is controlled is an example of such an issue, which is therefore about contributing to long-term sustainable welfare. As the last speaker, there may not be much to add because we have a motion report at Parliament's table in which, in most of the issues raised by the motionaries – that's where they start – in fact there is not much contradiction. For example, with regard to the proposals on measures for the effective and safe use of medicines, the Government submitted a proposal proposing measures less than a month ago, and I believe that it addresses many of the issues raised by the motionaries last autumn and partly even in previous years. As regards the lack of information on insurance in the event of complications, which has been raised by some of the previous speakers, the complex issues – as has also been mentioned by previous speakers – that the government continues to work on. I do not think that there are any major differences in how seriously we view these issues as having to be resolved. As regards drug reviews for people with many different prescriptions, follow-up work is ongoing, and the National Board of Health and Welfare has the task of making proposals to address possible problems that may persist. I also note that many of the motions that exist here and the proposals that the government is working on are those that we, environmentalists, too, have re-motioned before this term of office, when we were in opposition and, of course, saw it as our role as an opposition party to make proposals. So there is not really much news in the report. During the 14 years when I have been a Member of Parliament, I myself have been very involved in the problems with the side effects of medicines. I think it is very good that Members of Parliament are constantly exercising and paying attention to the problem, because it is serious. Unfortunately, the Swedish medical profession seems too uninterested to report side effects, especially when it comes to the less common ones. They are very bad at discovering and reporting. However, the government has entered into an agreement with SKL, that is, Sweden's Municipalities and County Council, and allocated resources to simplify the systems for reporting adverse reactions. My hope is that this will lead to an improvement in the collection of information. The government's proposal on increased opportunities for drug exchange, I believe, takes care of most of the proposals made by the sportsmen in terms of exchange and pricing. I also believe that the outstanding issues, as some previous speakers have said, are being dealt with in the current pharmaceutical investigation. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, it can be said that new drugs are constantly developing and that disease conditions that have previously been difficult to treat thanks to this development are easier to take care of. Often you also get better results. It is a development which, apart from politics, goes in a direction where we can do more and better. Personally, therefore, I find it rather difficult to see the political conflicts and dimensions of these issues. I believe that this is primarily about practical things: finding working systems with economically reasonable solutions that are safe for patients. For everyone, we probably want to use as much as possible the opportunities that research and drug development gives us to improve for those affected by ill health. Of course, it is the role of the opposition to push forward so that the responsible authorities and governments do not miss opportunities. It must be noted, however, that during this term of office the government has been exceptionally productive and has put forward proposals for solutions to a great many of the issues raised. What I may lack – something I think all governments have been bad at over the years – is that they dare to develop systems for longer-term work to prevent ill health. Preventing ill health is, in my view, the only real opportunity in the long term to do what several previous speakers have talked about, namely to tackle the development of costs in the field of medicines. Mr President, I would like to Against this background, I would like to support the committee's proposal.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-67	Mr President, I would like to We have a rather comprehensive basis for debate today, namely three reports on student aid, the university and research that are worth cooperating, because these are issues that are closely linked. It is about how higher education works and is financed. Sweden has a long tradition of strong export companies. There are many large companies that we have reason to be proud of, some with long history and some that are significantly younger. However, if we are to succeed in providing these companies and employers with skills for the future, it is important that we have a quality education chain all the way from preschool to university studies. This is how we build Sweden strongly for the future. It is also the way we create life chances for individuals. Today we have a great need to use our university system and our universities in the most efficient way possible. We suffer a great lack of engineers, nurses and teachers. The list of shortage occupations can be done virtually endlessly. It is therefore important that we are able to lift our eyes and not get caught up in old frames, but think about how we can increase throughput, how we can make it easier for students to choose the right education and how we strengthen the quality of the education we have, so that they become as useful as possible. The current government has chosen to put a lot of focus and energy in higher education policy on continuing to expand the number of places in Sweden, which has been current politics for almost 50 years. However, this policy has come to an end. The current government has even had to withdraw proposals to continue the increase in the number of seats. It is noted that this will lead to a erosion of the quality of higher education institutions. That's how far we've come. Don't get me wrong. There are individual courses where the number of places needs to be increased, and there are individual courses where the search pressure needs to go up. But new places tend to quickly be converted into empty spaces. Teacher training can be a good example. The expert authorities themselves note that there is no point in expanding it by more places, because this does not lead to more students attending the education. Instead, we need to shift the focus in Swedish education policy when it comes to higher education. The focus needs to be on quality, academic performance and usability of the education, not just on the number of places. This affects how we work with resource allocation and policy across the board. Mr President, I would like to Eight out of ten students in higher education claim to be studying because they want to get a job. They try to choose an education that leads to work and provides career opportunities. Unfortunately, the information on career opportunities today is highly inadequate for students who are thinking about which education to attend. It must be easier to compare higher education institutions, and it must be clear which programmes actually lead to jobs if we want to enable young people, young adults and adults in the middle of life to make the right decisions about what to study. It needs to be visible to the students, and it needs to be visible to the higher education institutions when they receive compensation for the education. Passthrough, working life and usability of education need to become key words rather than search pressures. Quality needs to be comparable between universities. The University Chancellor's Office needs to be given strengthened powers to continue and expand its reviews of the quality of the various courses. Mr President, I would like to However, increased demands on the quality of education need to be matched with better support for universities to develop the quality of their education. Today we can see how, for example, the distribution of training hours is extremely uneven between different training courses. Resources need to be made available from the public in order for us to also be able to invest in prioritising quality, not least in education in the humanities. If we want a system that contributes to quality and throughput and makes it easy to choose, it must be transparent, but it must also be based on the fact that we reward academic quality, throughput, collaboration and labour market establishment. In addition, we need an education system that supports the development of skills even if you already have an education but need to strengthen your skills in order to remain attractive in the labour market. Then it's about making sure that we have available evening courses and that there are summer courses and other interesting and attractive things to read. There is good work going on here at many higher education institutions. That work needs to be spread and supported. However, we also need to raise the age limit for when you can get study funding and increase the maximum amount and the amount of free access when it comes to borrowing, so that you have a practical opportunity to access these courses. Mr President, I would like to Let me continue with the field of research. Here, Sweden faces major challenges. We have a long and good tradition of good conditions and good results when it comes to research linked to our universities as well as the innovations it leads to. But the world is catching up with us, and there is reason to take a concerted approach to these issues. The Alliance therefore proposes that we make our research programmes in Sweden seven-year-olds to match how the EU works. We need to ensure that the research programmes also have a clear link with the other university policies, so that the way in which we work with the research bill here in Parliament is extended. Sweden would also have a great advantage in consolidating the state research funders, so that it will be easier to apply for funds and so that we can prioritise developing the resources and research environments we have. Sweden has a unique research infrastructure that needs better use if we are to get value for money. We need both strategy and analysis of how we can do it better. It is not a question of, for example, making better use of Max IV, but also of considering how we can use these facilities to attract experts from other parts of the world to come and research in Sweden. If Sweden's strength is that we have a fairly strong research environment on the broad side, it is our great disadvantage and weakness that we lack genuine cutting-edge research areas. It is difficult to identify individual areas where Sweden is absolutely the best in the world. If we are to succeed in attracting external researchers to Sweden, we need to be better at pointing out where we can develop. There are areas of development where we belong to the absolute world elite, such as medtech and life science, which we would need to prioritise in order to really carry out the ultimate frontier research in the world. Let me note, Mr President, that the committee also lands in an announcement to the government to tighten up the quality analysis and follow-up of the research work, which is also being carried out. It is very, very grateful and very much, very much needed. Sweden spends considerable resources both on higher education and on research, and it is of the utmost importance that we in this House actually know that that money comes to pleasure and lands in the right places. Then we need to be better at monitoring and actually analysing the quality of our resources. Let me conclude, Mr President, by saying that there is much we need to do to develop Swedish university and research policy. However, there is a crucial issue for making Swedish research and higher education even more successful, which is beyond the framework of this committee. Sweden currently has the OECD's lowest education premium. There is nowhere else in the developed world where it pays less to study further. Proper education and lifelong learning must never be a loss business. Unfortunately, there are too many courses in Sweden today. One of the perhaps single most important efforts we need to make to strengthen higher education is to strengthen the education premium and lower taxes on labour. Mr President, I would like to Of course, the Moderates support all of the reservations of the Moderates and the Alliance. However, I would particularly like to support reservations 1 and 2 in the UbU16 and reservations 1 and 10 in the UbU17.
i-V7LbwLNWSZanKpuz6KbrrA	Mr President, I would like to I'll start with the motions. I request the approval of reservation 6 in UbU11, Student support, reservations 9 and 19 in UbU16, the University, and reservations 16 and 24 in UbU17, Research. I can begin by agreeing with the previous speaker in terms of volume, quality and usability of study places. That's what I've been going on about a lot of times here. How are we going to get enough medical personnel in our countryside? We find it difficult to get enough doctors and nurses in our sparsely populated areas. It's a known problem. In the United States they apparently have the same problem, and there they have solved it through a rural bonus that manifests itself in a deduction of student debt. Norway also uses a similar model. Because of this, we want an investigation to be set up to clarify how such a system can be designed in Sweden. I have mentioned before our proposal for cooperation between higher education institutions in relation to administration. There are efficiency gains to be made here, as everyone understands. Some six months ago I read a publication from the Business Research Committee, where they mentioned this as a future model – when they thought that smaller colleges would profile themselves more. We believe this is a good future model for our higher education institutions. I have not been invited to any brandy, I would like to point out, but this is a sensible model that everyone benefits from. The proposal means that smaller higher education institutions are taking on what they are really good at and that larger universities have a wider range of courses. This does not mean, as I think the previous speaker was a bit concerned, that the overall range of places of study is increasing or that we are going to start more colleges, but that the higher education institutions are doing exactly what they are best at. At the same time, smaller universities can cooperate administratively with larger universities. I visited BTH last year. It's a niche smaller college. I was actually impressed by their activities and training, Mr President. I have seen some measurements where they have been very high internationally in the areas where they have niched themselves. It must be a future model if we are to be successful in our country. By the way, I spoke to the principal there, a very sensible and nice man. He was supposed to stop. I don't know why, but it's sad that really good principals quit. Not so much in recent times but a few years ago we could read bustling headlines at each start of the academic year about students who are forced to live in tents and the like due to lack of student housing. In addition – and it is perhaps more serious – we could read reports that students are forced to abstain from their first choice precisely because there is a lack of student housing. It's pretty serious. I think I know that the lack of student housing is still serious at some universities. I think it has become a little smaller; you have built out in some places. But such a situation is, of course, unacceptable in a knowledge nation. Better management of the number of places of education is required, correlated with the number of student housing. Precisely what it should look like will have to be well investigated in the usual order. But it must be based on a collaboration between Akademiska Hus, högskolan och kommun, where the state sets an absolute limit to increasing the number of places of education at a higher education institution in a place where there is already a shortage of student housing, unless there is at the same time being built or otherwise arranged new student housing. Let me exemplify! A university wants to increase the number of study places at the same time as there is a shortage of student housing at the university. The government is in favour of allocating funds and raising the ceiling for the number of places to study, as there may be a social need for that particular education. The government says: Please raise the roof, as long as you arrange this or so many student housing! Please come back when it's fixed! It's simple. We also have a fitness test exercise for teacher training. We all know in here that there has been a proposal on the subject. We believe that an aptitude test may well be considered as a specific competence, as stated in the bill. We have nothing to say there. However, we believe that something needs to be done about a situation where too many drop-outs are taking place from teacher training. We also believe that we must depart from the principle of one third of each category of admission in the case of teacher training. We want to reduce the number that comes in through the university exam, because that seems to be the main problem. We think we have to do that for certain trainings. There may be more educations. We'll see about the future. After all, reality must take precedence over principles. The fact that one third of them come in through university tests has simply proved to be ineffective in the field of teacher training. Mr President, I would like to We have a motion that cooperation within academia with the surrounding society must be strengthened. That exercise has a few years on its neck. We woke up the motion before the government came up with its research bill. But in the research bill, we think the government went a little too far. We were heard a little too much. We must work together to achieve results, not to obtain funds, so we are opposed to this. I also reported a disagreement on this issue in the ostrich investigation. As I understood it, I got everyone against me and was alone in my opinion. Leave it alone! I still think I am right and others are wrong about that. I'll finally talk a little bit about research. The Swedish Democrats are, as far as I know, the only party that is in favour of us starting a research reactor. We are convinced that if we are to be able to deal with the energy problems of the future, we must use nuclear power – a nuclear power that is becoming safer and safer. After all, future nuclear power will not be comparable to yesterday's Chernobyl or Harrisburg. It's like comparing a T-Ford with a modern Volvo in terms of crash safety. It's just not serious. Sweden should be involved in researching the next generation of super-safe nuclear power. Sure, we can add wind, sun and other renewable energy – I have nothing to say against it. But that alone will not be enough when the oil begins to run and if we are to keep our heavy industry, which actually consumes a lot of electricity. Finally, Mr President. I have previously raised the issue of gender education and research in this House. I am as critical of parts of this doctrine now as I was before. What Ivar Arpi described in his series of articles in Svenska Dagbladet about how gender has become an overideology is frightening. Courses in history are forced to use radical feminist works in their course, works that have nothing to do with the course itself. The teachers themselves decide what their courses look like, it is true, but course managers should not have to include things that have nothing to do with the subject itself. Arpi describes it in a series of articles as wanting to incorporate gender-based power theories into all universities' areas of work. Let us be honest: this is something that makes us lose competitiveness and perhaps also makes us a laughing stock abroad. We therefore propose the closure of the National Secretariat for Gender Research.
i-A3GqAuoWAz4Z33HripVxHu	Mr President, I would like to We are of course behind all our reservations, but for time winning I would only like to ask for reservation 1 in UbU11 Student support, reservation 3 in UbU16 University and reservation 1 in UbU 17 Research. Mr President, I would like to Research and higher education are prerequisites for Swedish competitiveness and for us to meet the challenges we face when it comes to creating jobs and prosperity in Sweden. Sweden has quite good conditions. We have free education, a generous study system, a good higher education and a successful research. It is something we should be proud of, but we should not be satisfied. If we are to keep up with international competition and the developments we see around the world, we need to be even better at meeting the challenges we face. I wanted to start by highlighting the challenges we face in higher education. Sweden has the worst education premium in the OECD. In Sweden, it pays the least to study if we compare with other countries. There is a low pass rate in higher education. We have the second highest age of qualification in the OECD, which means that we are the second worst. A number of courses have a lack of quality, and we have a fairly low percentage of teacher-led time in higher education. In recent years we have seen major problems and challenges when it comes to international students' opportunities to come to Sweden. Due to long processing times, they have not been able to start their training courses. Bureaucracy and regulations also affect students' ability to stay after the courses. At the same time, we in the Swedish labour market have a huge challenge when it comes to meeting the skills needs that exist. It is about both the public sector and the private sector. Matching needs to be improved so that more people get a job and companies can acquire the skills they need to take new steps, hire more and develop new products. As I said at the beginning, Sweden is successful in terms of research. But we can also see a number of challenges in the field of research. We invest huge resources in research in Sweden, but at the same time we can see that we have a relatively low output on research. Private investment in R & D has declined compared to GDP in recent years, while such investment has increased in 18 out of 22 comparable countries. We are losing international competitiveness. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, what has the government done during this term of office? Increased taxes on jobs have reduced the educational premium and thus made it less profitable to work and train. One of the first decisions taken on higher education was to remove the quality indicator introduced by the Alliance. It has also weakened the autonomy of higher education institutions by going in and detailed regulating certain locations and making other priorities. Nor have they followed the election promises they issued, including when it comes to summer courses. It was promised that there would be more summer courses, but the result is that there are fewer summer courses in 2018 than in 2014. It is good that the government has set up an investigation into the resource allocation system. It is important that it be reviewed; we in the Center Party have been pushing this for a long time. It is necessary to create incentives for the right things, in particular to strengthen quality and improve working life links and collaboration with the rest of society. We'll see where it lands. Mr President, I would like to For the Center Party we see a number of reforms that need to be made in the areas of higher education, research and study funding in Sweden. Firstly, it needs to be more profitable to work and train. We need to reduce taxes on jobs in particular so that education pays more. We need to create better conditions for transition so that later in life you can both further educate yourself and have the opportunity to retrain. This is particularly necessary with the challenges we see with digitalisation, automation, artificial intelligence and so on. The Center Party has also proposed raising the age of study funds and also extending the funding of studies so that later in life you can study a two-year-old vocational education, a master's education or whatever it may be. To meet the demands of the labour market, increased resources are needed for the university of applied sciences. Education and training directly linked to working life and labour market demand need more resources. Today they have relatively little resources compared to academic education. People who are educated must also be given better opportunities to move to where there is a large shortage of highly skilled workers. The Center Party has therefore proposed the write-off of study funds for people moving back or moving into rural areas to take jobs in smaller towns that they might not have chosen from other perspectives. A key point is to strengthen the quality of higher education. On the one hand, a more national system for quality evaluation is needed, with an increased focus on quality in higher education, and on the other hand, it must be easier for students to better compare educations so that they know which type of education to choose and can have the right expectations with them when they start studying. We also need to strengthen the autonomy of higher education institutions and to a greater extent transfer power to higher education institutions in order to improve higher education in this way. What we are highlighting in the report is also a reduction of the regulatory burden in order to enable the re-training of foundations and to start independent teacher training, all in order to have a better and more functioning higher education sector in Sweden. We also need to create better conditions for private investment in research and development. Given the development we see, where other countries have increased their private investment in research and development while they have decreased in Sweden, efforts are needed to create better and more attractive research environments in Sweden with test beds and the like. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to say that higher education and research are very important and crucial for Swedish competitiveness and for us to meet the societal challenges we face in terms of environmental and climate threats and so on. It is also about our Swedish companies being able to continue to develop and grow from Sweden and that new companies should be able to start. To achieve this, reforms are needed to strengthen the quality of higher education, improve the working environment and make it more profitable to both work and study.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-121	Mr President, I would like to I can begin by agreeing with the speeches made so far by my colleagues in the alliance, and probably also in the latter speeches by my colleagues in the alliance, because this is an area in which the Alliance has a very well-coordinated and offensive policy together. This is an area where Sweden has a lot that works well. We have a good study support system, maybe one of the best in the world. We have a well-developed education system. We have a research that in some places is of very high quality. We have Swedish researchers who stand out in international contexts. There's a lot to be proud of. Mr President, I would like to I sat earlier and pondered what was remembered by this red-green government term. Yeah, not much. It is an area that in recent years would have needed further reinforcements, additional pressure, further tightening up, further improvements and an offensive. But what we have seen has been something else. The red-greens will want to remind us that they expanded the colleges. But what kind of politics is it when places are often empty? This applies not least to teacher training, where we would really need more educated people. They may say that they changed the quality evaluation system. But what kind of reform has actually meant that the quality of Swedish higher education policy has become worse? Perhaps the government would say that they have invested a lot in teacher training. Yes, but what we've seen in the last year is that the search pressure has actually decreased. From 2011 onwards, we have had an increased search pressure on teacher training, but it has actually fallen now. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that the four years of red-green research and college policy have been rather lost. At a time when we should invest very much and tighten up the policy in this area, the government has taken it very calmly. Perhaps in a few years' time we will look back at this term of office and remember one thing: Connie Dickinson's profit against a college she sued because she did not receive the education she had paid for and thought she was entitled to. She got the money back after a decision in the Supreme Court. More students have probably thought the same, because you put quite a lot of effort, time, your own energy and finances into studying at the university. If you feel that you do not get quality back, you naturally perceive it as being cheated. That's why it was interesting that Connie Dickinson, who is certainly a foreign student, got her money back. But I think it will mean something in students' relation to the university in the future. It will be better to make demands, and I welcome that. Mr President, I would like to If it is the case that the red-greens have taken it a little too calm this term of office, what should be done? My alliance colleagues have pointed out several things. The offensive research policy pursued by the Alliance government for eight years would have been pursued. We had a period in which we devoted considerable resources to research policy and expanded research in several areas, partly because it is important for humanity that we continue to explore opportunities constantly, partly because it is crucial for our country's prosperity. We are a small country, dependent on international contexts and international trade, and have a little bit of a geographical challenge. But we are very good in many areas, not least because we have many skilled and prominent researchers both in academia and in business. It would be necessary to continue to become more active in the EU in order to ensure that EU research policy better targets the challenges of the future. It would have been better to use the great progress made to get ESS to Sweden and ensure that MAX IV landed in a good way. These environments, which are so crucial to having good research in the country, are not only about getting infrastructure in place but also about being able to attract researchers to this country. Then you have to think about what the environments look like also outside the research environments. The focus should be very clear on quality in education. Instead of removing the evaluation system that we introduced, it would have been reformed but kept at the heart of it, namely making it easy to compare education across the country so that students can see which education they should choose. The teacher training should be reviewed. Liberals think that the focus should be on subject teacher education in particular in fewer universities. It is also necessary to review the overall rate of admission, study pace and quality of teacher training rather than simply increasing the number of places, which could lead to a deterioration in the pace and quality of education. There should be more interest, commitment and curiosity about how continuing education and training can become a reality. At a time when the economy is changing faster and the expectations of being able to educate and further educate itself have come to increase, we need to find flexible and curious solutions, so that people have the chance to educate themselves, educate themselves and further educate themselves. Mr President, I would like to It should have been ensured that education pays off. In a country where it does not pay to study a little extra, fewer will, and in the long term, prosperity will fall in an economy that competes for knowledge. Rather, the government's tax policy has meant that it pays less to study. If you want more people to use a little more of their time to deepen and broaden their knowledge, you cannot tax them. Mr President, I would like to Finally, more thought should be given to securing freedom and independence at higher education institutions. This is an issue that I believe will be extremely important in the future. We see how people around the world try to influence academia and researchers to think certain things and research certain things, where the academy should really be independent and free. Such things should have been done by the government for the last four years. We have seen very little of this. Therefore, Mr President, I would like to express my support for the following reservations: reservation 45 in the UbU16 report to raise questions about teacher training; reservation 8 in the UbU11 report on improving the conditions for foreign students to stay in Sweden and contribute to our prosperity and reservation 1 in the UbU17 report on a new direction for research policy and better participation in EU cooperation.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-141	Mr President, I would like to There is much to be said in today's debate on student aid, college and research. First, a few words about student aid. I think it is well known by now that we Christian Democrats are in favour of abolishing the amount of the exemption, that is to say, the ceiling that is currently in place for how much money can be earned at the same time in order to obtain study money. We also want it to be possible to get study funds higher up the age range. From the year you turn 57, the possibility of both student loans and student grants will cease. Instead, the starting point should be that higher education should be accessible to more people who have an interest in and the prerequisites for conducting studies at university level and also that the duration of the education should be taken into account. With this, I leave the question of student aid, because it was just debated in this House in such depth and instead goes into the question of increasing the opportunity for more people to hold a doctoral degree and obtain a doctoral degree. The current system for admission of doctoral students counteracts the ambition of getting more people to defend their thesis. Since the 1990s, all doctoral students have their livelihoods secured for four years by the institution that adopted them. Those who are accepted are usually those who have written theoretically well-developed master's theses and that fit into the department's existing projects and theory. Others do not have that possibility, even if they have good ideas and conditions. Nor can anyone who could finance their doctoral studies be accepted. This means that in previous decades, before the 1990s, a doctoral thesis could not be written part-time by a doctoral student who has already become a professional now. The scientific community thus misses out on many interesting theses, and just as many qualified people miss out on a chance to make a research career. This could be changed by allowing qualified applicants to be admitted as doctoral students provided that they are themselves responsible for their livelihoods. This was the case before the mid-1990s, and so it is in Finland, for example. If we open up to more people to be adopted, we will also have more good dissertations and more that go beyond the theory of the local establishment. Mr President, I would like to The need to develop a critical approach to information, not least on social media, is great. According to the report Swedes and the Internet, a majority of young people between the ages of 16 and 25 consider Facebook to be a more important source of information than traditional media. We live at a time when the concept of alternative facts has been normalised in the debate, and then an increased critical approach is necessary. Digital media is also increasingly used in our schools, so it is important to be able to manage and critically evaluate sources of teaching and learning. Despite this, there are shortcomings in the teaching of source criticism, as the Swedish School Inspectorate pointed out in its review of 421 high school jobs. In the Swedish National Board of Education's IT follow-up in 2015, one in five high school teachers stated that they are not working at all to develop students' skills in source criticism on the internet. More than a third of all teachers in upper secondary school have expressed a great need for skills development in the area of online source criticism. The National Media Council has put forward a proposal that media and information literacy should be included in the examination requirements for teacher education. Experts have been asking for it for a long time, yet many teacher training courses still lack adequate training in digital source criticism. When the Swedish Media Council conducted a study of teacher education, there were very large differences between universities in terms of the elements and awareness of media and information literacy. Only 3 out of 24 higher education institutions had local examination goals that included digital source criticism. Today's teacher students are not given equal opportunities to be able to teach digital source criticism. If we are to have an equal school, we must coordinate further training efforts in this area for teachers so that it is not up to every school to invest in this. We Christian Democrats have exercised it. Mr President, I would like to One of the biggest challenges we have right now is to face the great shortage of teachers with wise proposals. Already today, there is a great deal of ingenuity in that retired teachers are left to work, that teachers' students are paid during their studies if they also work with more. The Christian Democrats also want to create more faster ways into the teaching profession for suitable people who have a degree in a relevant subject or professional knowledge. Today it is possible to reach a teacher's degree through a supplementary education of 90 credits. We believe that it is necessary to reduce supplementary education to only 60 credits, which corresponds to one year of full-time studies. The internship can be included if you work in the meantime. This should be for people with previously acquired subject knowledge and apply to more subjects than today. In this way you can get a teacher's degree more quickly. We believe that more people should be able to benefit from such complementary training. I support reservations 1 and 42 of the UbU16 and reservations 1 and 9 of the UbU17.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-158	Mr President, I would like to All my life, the whole country, the world. It can serve as a starting point for describing the government's policy on higher education and research. Lifelong learning is more important than ever. Higher education plays a key role in meeting the skills needs of the labour market now and in the future. We know that more people need to be able to retrain or replenish their skills when jobs change. This requires our universities to design their education so that it can meet a changing labour market. Higher education and research are content for ecological, economic and social development and greater equality. At the very least, it raises the level of education in our society and is thus a defence for our democracy. It certainly needed in these times of fake news and alternative facts. This requires that we have universities and colleges throughout Sweden. For this reason, the path of older Social Democratic governments to extend higher education with new universities has been strategically important. Often it met resistance from the Moderates, or the Right Party as it was then called, who disdainfully called them community colleges. In the Government's efforts during this term of office, two priorities are particularly important: more higher education places and improved quality. When we see that there is a large shortage of teachers and a lack of skills equivalent to 100 000 jobs in business, it is important to expand the university. Therefore, it is good that the government invests in more higher education places, especially in socially important education for teachers, engineers, specialist nurses and doctors. In order to strengthen quality, the government invests 2 50 million annually in the coming years to strengthen quality in the humsam area, including teacher training. With higher education institutions throughout Sweden, we enable higher education for many. It removes unnecessary barriers to higher education and still serves Sweden well. It stands in stark contrast to, for example, the Liberals who today want to concentrate subject teacher education in six major universities. It is important to increase internationalisation because we live in a global world. This is why it is important that our universities see the opportunities of internationalisation, i.e. through a developed cooperation with other teaching institutions in the EU and countries outside the EU, and also through a global perspective that can shape the education. If you take an education in Sweden, you should get a global perspective in your education. Mr President, I would like to In this discussion, we are dealing with three different reports with approximately 440 different forms of order. Almost all of them are proposed by the Committee on Education, either because they are clashing with the government's policy, because the issue is already being addressed, because preparations are being made or because measures are being planned. However, there is a motion that is supported by a united committee and which has been mentioned before. In an announcement, the committee wants the government to review the need for a system that allows a more comprehensive and independent analysis of the results and effects of state investment in research, development and innovation. Such special schemes exist in many other countries. It is good that the government is given the task of reviewing whether Sweden also needs such a thing. We must have high ambitions for higher education and research. In line with this, the government presented in the research bill a proposal for a new goal formulation: a leading knowledge nation, one of the world's leading research and innovation countries, where high-quality research, higher education and innovation lead to the development and well-being of society, the competitiveness of the business community and responds to the societal challenges we face, both in Sweden and globally. ..................................................... Now, in two common reservations, the bourgeois parties repeat their proposals for goal formulation. But already a year ago, the Riksdag supported the Government's proposals for objectives and interim targets. Our universities and higher education institutions must be given good opportunities to conduct long-term activities. Therefore, an investigation is currently under way on governance and resource allocation. I look forward to the investigation proposal, and we should not anticipate its work. I hope that this study will lead to a political agreement that will further strengthen the quality of higher education and research. Mr President, I would like to In order to strengthen lifelong learning, it is important that all students have good economic conditions for carrying out their studies. The means of study need to be changed in line with the development of society. We Social Democrats will continue to work to improve the opportunities for everyone to study, regardless of the background or thickness of the wallet. It is therefore gratifying that the government is now investing additional resources to improve student support and student funding. There will simply be more money for Sweden's students; this is the first time in the last decade that the grant part will be increased. The study grant will be increased this year by approximately SEK 300 per study month. The effort will make the distribution between loans and grants more even. Students receive more money without increasing their student debt. The study grant within study aid, which is mainly given to pupils in upper secondary school, is also increased by approximately SEK 200 per month. The Government's commitment to study start-up support is also very welcome. It is a grant that gives short-term unemployed people an opportunity to get into studies and get a job. I would also like to mention that the government is now enabling students to be enrolled on part-time sick leave with full-time benefits in the study aid system for special reasons. The Government has added an investigation to propose measures to increase the safety of students in the event of illness and promote more effective studies. This is good. Politics matters. Who controls Sweden affects everyday life for everyone who needs to fill in with knowledge and acquire an education. All bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats say no to the start-up aid. The Center Party also says no to increase the contribution part of the study funds. The Liberals and Christian Democrats consider that the study funds need to be increased, but suggest that the increase be made on the loan part. This means that students' loan debt increases. This shows that it matters what government we have. It is an important message to anyone who is studying or who wants to start studying that we have a government that wants to give students better conditions. Mr President, I would like to In the research bill presented a year ago, the government gave its view on research policy in a ten-year perspective, with a particular focus on the years 2017 – 2020. This is still the case. In accordance with the proposal, the grant for research is increased by nearly SEK 3 billion during this four-year period. The research bill emphasises the importance of increased collaboration between academia, industry, the public sector and the surrounding society. The ongoing Steering and Resource Investigation will make important suggestions on how to further strengthen this interaction. It is important to strengthen researchers' working conditions and career paths. This is a priority for the government. Among other things, the education allowance has been removed, so doctoral students can now be employed from day one. The Qualifications Regulation has also been amended so that an assistant lecturer now has the right to be examined for an open-ended position as senior lecturer. At all, it is important to focus on reducing the large proportion of fixed-term employees at our universities. It was as much as 28 per cent in 2016. At the same time, it is important that research meets major global and national societal challenges. The research bill indicated five such: the climate challenge, digitalisation, health and life sciences, creating sustainable social building and raising the quality of Swedish school. In accordance with the research proposal, six ten-year national research programmes and Testbed Sweden are now being implemented – a power collection for innovation. Through these efforts, we can prioritise the challenge-driven research. Mr President, I would like to I call for the committee's proposals, which we are now discussing, to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-7vUQXCVbsSXWWBLrtc28kR	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Thomas Strand, for the post! Let me begin with a brief passage on the start-up aid, which Thomas Strand criticised the opposition parties for opposing. The start-up aid would allow 20 000 individuals to start studying, but in reality it has become a tummethott. Now the government has requested an additional 50 million from the Riksdag, not to strengthen the start-up grant but to be able to market it and try to attract more people to it. Few people want to make use of this support, even though it is extremely generous. I think it is clear that it was a failed reform that the government should roll back to focus instead on more accurate efforts to attract groups far away from studying. But let us return to a much greater and more important discussion, namely the teacher training that we have today. The teacher training is now lined up by a drop-off and has far too low status. After the introduction of the new teacher training during the alliance years, the search pressure increased, and we had quite good pressure on teacher training for a couple of years. But now the search pressure is decreasing again, and we see that fewer and fewer people are interested in studying as teachers, contrary to what the government has promised. We note that the Swedish National Agency for Education has to write up the forecasts for how big the shortage of teachers is; it is actually getting bigger and bigger every year that the government is in power. What may perhaps be the gleam of light in the whole is the KPU introduced by the Alliance, i.e. additional peda gogic training, where the pressure continues to be high. One third of the subject teachers who graduate will be via the KPU, and one way to remedy the teacher shortage and put a lot of energy into it is to shorten the KPU to 60 points, as Annika Eclund explained. Why should this not be a way forward to ensure that we quickly train more good quality teachers on an education that is also appreciated and popular?
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-189	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. It is primarily the teacher education that Erik Bengtzboe focuses on, but I can comment on the start-up support first. Of course, I am also disappointed that too few are taking this opportunity. This is an important signal for the government to get more people to work. When we see the skills shortage that exists and that companies scream for workers and do not find the right skills, it is important to get everyone to work. I think the ambition is great and good, and I don't want to give it up. It is good that we invest money in marketing and try to get people to understand that this is a good way to get into study and work in the long term. Teacher education is extremely important. We all know what a lack of teachers we have. That is why the signal that the government has sent by increasing the number of seats is important, and it shows the ambition. The search pressure increased over a few years but has decreased over the past year. I find this worrying, and we need to do more here to promote the profession properly so that more people are looking for it. It may be that there are many vacancies, and the search pressure usually goes down when it is possible to apply elsewhere. But this is important. Then we have to bet on KPU and Teach for Sweden. I think what we talked about – the so-called Dala model where you can work while going to school and reading – is an interesting way. We have to help each other between the parties to get more people to want to be teachers. I do not think the ambition is wrong. The signal is correct: we need more teachers.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-195	Mr President, I would like to Ambitions in all honor. In fact, however, it must also be a real policy in order to make a difference. Politics isn't just wanting. In fact, it is also acting. I note that Thomas Strand is ducking on my question about shortening the KPU. This may be because it was also an election promise from the Social Democrats for the 2014 elections to do so. But it is obviously something that has been reversed or failed to do. Increasing the number of places in teacher training is not a way forward. This is noted by the government's own expert authorities, which state that it only leads to the inclusion of students with even lower qualifications from the start, which reduces quality. Moreover, these students do not pass through the education but drop out. So we get a thinned teacher training with a lower tempo but with exactly as many coming out of it. It's a failure. A policy that focuses on quality needs to come into being. Shortening the KPU and enabling the KPU on more teacher training would be a way to go and actually focus on what works and streamline it. Ensuring that education in itself is also becoming more attractive is extremely important. That is why the Alliance has put forward proposals to ensure that both competence in NPF and more leadership skills are included in teacher training. We do this not because we think it is fun and important and because we think it is something that would attract more people to study there, but because it is precisely what newly graduated teachers testify that they lack competence within. We are also convinced that if we are to succeed in attracting students by actually raising the status, not only of the profession but also of the education, we need to make higher demands on admission to teacher education. Proposals are on the table if you want to act and not just have ambitions. The Social Democrats have recently been good at stealing proposals from other parties, and they are happy to continue to do so. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I shall correct my requests in the speaker's chair. I naturally support reservations 1 and 10 in paragraph 9 of the UbU17. I also support reservations 1 and 2 in the UbU16.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-200	Mr President, I would like to We look at this differently with teacher training and the number of places. What scenario should we send? Should we say that we should reduce the number of places and opportunities to become teachers? No, I don't believe that. Should we keep the level as it is now or earlier? No, I don't believe that either. I think it's very important that we say that we need more teachers and give opportunities for it. It is not just about saying that we should have more places; it is an important signal. We also need to strengthen the teaching profession. I am pleased that we have now raised the salaries of teachers considerably; that is an important signal. We work for better working conditions, better working environment and reduced administration. It's extremely important. That's where I think we're thinking pretty much alike. It is also very important with the School Commission's professional programme. I believe that this is an extremely important measure to increase attractiveness, so that those who attend teacher training know that they can continue and can have a progression in their profession. I think you have to do several things at the same time. I'm glad the government is spending more money on teacher training. Even if we don't fill all the seats, it's an important signal, and we'll stick to that. And we will also work with other things to increase the attractiveness and get more to apply. I'm sure there'll be a discussion about the KPU in the future. We Social Democrats are always willing to think new and change if we see that it does not last. But right now we have what we have.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-204	Mr President, I would like to It was interesting to hear Thomas Strand's speech. He said it matters who you vote for. However, I understood that he also indicated that the report states that the government is working on the matter and that various issues and proposals dealt with in the report are being prepared. That's why I'm only going to want a clarification from Thomas Strand if I understood him correctly. Thomas Strand also highlighted the study funds. I share his view that it matters who is voted for. We see a little differently on the way forward there. The Alliance parties have put forward proposals to raise the age of study aid. In the vision that Thomas Strand highlights about studies throughout life and throughout the country, it is important to actually create the conditions for more people to be able to study higher up in the age group precisely for conversion and retraining later in life. There is also a proposal in the Rural Committee's report concerning the depreciation of study funds for people moving to sparsely populated areas. We have included this proposal in our budget motion. However, no concrete proposals have been made by the government so far. There we also point out that the amount of the allowance should be increased, so that it pays more to work during the period of study. But the most important thing in order to make education pay more is not about a few hundred quid that you get as a student, but it is about that it actually pays to work after the study period. Then taxes on labour must be reduced, so that more people take the step of education because they know that it pays and that there is a training premium worthy of the name. In Sweden, the education premium is today the worst in the Western world among OECD countries. It is a problem that the government has helped to reinforce rather than try to change.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-208	Mr President, I would like to I am not sure that I understood the first question correctly when it comes to what Fredrik Christensson meant. I'll make a suggestion that I think he meant. There are things about which exercise is aroused and on which it is too early to take a stand. For example, we must wait for proposals from the Steering and Resource Investigation before we can make decisions. This also applies to issues relating to the protection systems when studying. There is an investigation that looks at how to get more security in case of illness when you study. This also applies to questions of effectiveness of studies. Among other things, it is a question of the amount of the release. Therefore, it is too early to take a stand before we get a good basis. Study funds are very important, and I am pleased that the grant part of the study funds for the first time in a decade has been increased by SEK 300. It matters. If you increase the loan part, the students get more money. But then the money will be paid back, and the debt will increase. This shows that the government we have now thinks wisely and increases the contributions. I think that is extremely important. Fredrik Christensson often comes back to tax policy. That's where we think differently. We shall have a cohesive Sweden. We are going to have a tax policy where you have to pay more tax if you earn more. It's extremely important. I don't think it's that dramatic. That is why we have different views on this. If you train, you get a higher salary, and you have to pay a little more tax. Yeah, that's it. But this is how we build Sweden strongly, i.e. by using tax money for health care, school, health care and care.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-213	Mr President, I would like to I thank Thomas Strand for his answer. I think he got the question right. At the outset, it sounded as if it were a matter of various proposals which were dealt with in the report. But I am pleased that Thomas Strand clarified it by saying that it was about the preparation parts. There is a significant difference in policy, which is made clear. On the Social Democratic side, the most important thing is to increase the contributions. We advocate and propose making work more profitable. I would like to hear whether Thomas Strand believes that taxes and opportunities to get money after studying do not matter and do not affect students. If wages do not matter, why were the Social Democrats involved in putting forward proposals for increased teachers' salaries? We believe that there is a clear connection. Education must pay off. Then we must ensure that we create better conditions and make it more attractive to study in Sweden and to educate ourselves in order to be able to participate in the public sector where several hands are needed but also in the private companies so that we can have more competitive companies. Then it is important to have an education premium, which means that people actually take the step and spend time on education and that in the long term it pays to study. It's more important than the short-term.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-216	Mr President, I would like to We differ in terms of fiscal, educational and labour market policies. During our four years in power now there have been 300 000 more Swedes going to work. We have the lowest unemployment rate in ten years. Youth unemployment has not been so low since 2002. And the EU has never measured such a high employment rate as in Sweden. We have succeeded in this despite the poor tax policy that Fredrik Christensson paints. These figures show that a policy that holds together and builds Sweden strongly can be pursued. We know that those who earn more pay more tax than those who earn less. That's how we build our welfare. This is extremely important for the government and for us Social Democrats – that we have a society that is fair and solidarity-based but which offers opportunities. I think the figures I have shown say a great deal. We can be proud, but not satisfied. We need to get more people into work, and we see the needs that exist and that have been mentioned: lack of teachers and lack of skills in different professions. I am pleased to note, at the end of a term of office, that we have a policy on the educational side which has been a good one. Some other speaker has said that there is no good in it, but there is actually a great deal that can be produced. I think that during your time there were things that were done well, and we have continued the tradition of investing in good and important things.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-220	Mr President, I would like to Higher education, research and student support are three concepts that are in practice closely intertwined and are the basis for the development that takes place in areas such as industry, culture, life science and education. Yes, the entire social life depends on this Trinity. Mr President, I would like to A prerequisite for being able to study at higher education institutions, but also in other adult education, is that the economy is secure. Study funds and grants mean that everyone has the opportunity to continue studying, regardless of their parents' finances. It is also this that can be the enabling factor when a person wants to reboot life. In the spring change budget, the government has set aside SEK 3 million to increase information on study start-up support, which enables the long-term unemployed to take new steps and complete their basic education. Communication is a difficult issue and therefore more support is needed to communicate. We have also set aside for a further increase of EUR 3 million in aid in order to be able to borrow for your B driving licence. Also it is an important piece of the puzzle in order to be able to get a job. Having colleges and universities established throughout the country is incredibly important, not least for the regional self-image and the possibility of developing learning centres, which is also part of this. Having a university in your region has a major impact on the opportunities for people to learn and develop throughout their lives. It also gives the region significantly better opportunities to recruit employees and thus the conditions for the whole country to live. There are many who have already established themselves out in the country – started a family, bought a house and have children who go to school. They do not have the opportunity to move to another part of Sweden to study. But with a university within commuting distance, they can realize their dreams and have the opportunity to learn and develop. In many places there is no tradition of applying to higher education. It's not there when the plans for adult life are about to take off. Maybe no one in the family studied at college. A local university will be a natural opportunity for young people to apply for higher education. A university close to you affects not only the labour market and business, but also cultural life and leisure opportunities, which increase in terms of both volume and diversity. This gives confidence in the future. Protecting small colleges is important. Studying at the university must be something completely different from self-studying at the university library. The difference between different faculties in terms of teacher support is remarkably large. The Green Party wants to increase the quality of higher education through more teacher-led hours and more practice. One step along the way is the investment in quality enhancement in humanities and social sciences. We want students to be able to easily compare the content and quality of their education, for example how many teacher-led hours a programme or course has and what type of examination applies to the education. If this happens, we believe that it will facilitate a more informed choice for the student, and thus the dropout will not be as great. Prioritising research is essential for the survival of mankind. Those are big words, but not an exaggeration. Today's major societal challenges, climate change, which overshadows everything else, receive new, creative solutions through today's and tomorrow's research. The same applies to the challenges and opportunities of digitalisation. The links between academia and the rest of society must be strengthened. Research has an important role to play in sustainable social construction. The environmental party's vision is that Sweden should be one of the world's leading research and innovation countries and a living knowledge nation, where high-quality research, higher education and innovation lead to society's development and welfare and increase business competitiveness. Basic funding is very important for free research and a prerequisite for good basic research. Large external contributions risk making research hard results-driven, which in turn can lead to shortcomings when it comes to creativity. A prominent research nation requires that all the academic skills of society be taken into account: Swedish-born and immigrant, men and women. Like all other sectors, the Academy should see gender equality as a fundamental element in the pursuit of sustainable activities. The Green Party wants young female doctoral students to have as much opportunity as men to reach top positions in academia, which unfortunately is all too rarely the case today. Faster increase in the proportion of female professors, equal distribution of research funding, continued gender mainstreaming and clear career paths for young researchers are examples of measures we want to see in order to achieve increased gender equality within academia. We want to keep Sweden's higher education open to knowledge and influences from outside, and we are pleased that the tuition fee for foreign-born students is now being reviewed. I support the committee's proposal and reject the motions.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-236	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Mr Knutsson, for your speech! I really only have one question linked to Elisabet Knutsson's presentation. Mr President, I would like to It sounded like Elisabet Knutsson made it clear that an increase in the share of basic grants is important for the independence of research and for the researchers' work situation and opportunities to carry out good research. However, the revaluation of the basic appropriations made by the government really only matches the external financing that is taking place. In fact, there will be no increase in the share of basic appropriations.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-238	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the question, Erik Bengtzboe! That's what happens sometimes. You have to have a vision for what you want to do forward. It's not always possible to do things at once. But what we have seen in this round is that the basic allocation has nonetheless been followed up. Then there is our vision and desire for the basic grant to be higher.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-239	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Knutsson, for your answer! At least then I understand the logic, although I may think that there is reason for the government to think about its political rhetoric when it appears that it is doing something that it is not actually doing. I also think that it is quite clear, Mr President, both from a previous speech by the Social Democrats and from the last intervention by the Green Party that the current government seems to believe that politics is only about ambition and will. I am convinced that politics is also about actually doing – it also needs to be delivered. My conclusion, Mr President, is therefore that Sweden needs a new government.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-242	Mr President, I would like to That sounded fun, Erik Bengtzboe. But it is true that even when the Alliance has been in government, it has not always been the case that you have been on a shrimp sandwich through life. You are talking about raising the means of study and raising the limit on how much you have to earn in order to get the means of study. Then I wonder: If it is the case that it pays to work when you study, when should you study?
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-244	Mr President, I would like to Since this is partly – or rather largely – not part of my area of responsibility within the Left Party, I intend to be brief and begin by calling for the approval of reservation 7 in UbU11, reservations 29 and 32 in UbU16 and reservation 18 in UbU17. The four points I was going to make very briefly relate to the write-off of study debts, accessibility and accessibility adaptation of our higher education institutions and universities, validation and completion, and gender equality in research. However, before I go into the issue of the write-off of student debt, I would like to continue with what Thomas Strand, among others, spoke about the fact that we have finally got an increase in the grant part of the study aid. If there is anything that proves that there will be good efforts for those who need it most, it is when the Social Democrats cooperate left-wing instead of looking right. Regarding the write-off of student debt, I would like to talk about the problem we see in many parts of Sweden but perhaps mainly in rural areas, where it is a problem to get enough staff – to be able to recruit – in different areas. I believe that ways of increasing interest in settling in rural areas are to do as in Norway and introduce a write-off of student funds for people with higher education degrees who settle in rural areas. The Staff Supply Commission should therefore be given the task of reviewing the possibility of offering part of the student loan to persons who, after completing studies, start work in the field of shortage professions in rural municipalities where there are major recruitment problems. I know that the Center Party, at least on the basis of what I have seen and read, agrees with this point. Today, when it comes to accessibility, more students have indicated that they have a disability. Legislation places high demands on physical accessibility at higher education institutions. This is also the focus of higher education institutions in their accessibility work, but we also know from several reports that this needs to be strengthened. We therefore believe that any external obstacles for people to work with what they want and to study for what they want must be removed and we must work for this. The government should take action on this issue. I would like to say a few words about validation and complementarity. It has been noted from here that in quite a few professions – even in the professions that affect our areas of school – there are far too few people who are trained to become, for example, a leisure teacher or work in school. We can see that Sweden could be much better at taking advantage of the great expertise of those who have foreign academic education through a better and fairer validation system. Finally, I would like to talk about equality in research. It has been noted in the report that research and the research world need to become more equal. This is what we in the Left Party believe that the government should introduce a target as soon as possible.
i-QzK2Kc7DDUsMw4MvuUwdhv	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister Ibrahim Baylan, Minister Lena Hallengren, Minister Ardalan Shekarabi and Minister Tomas Eneroth. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Government of Ibrahim Baylan answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-254	Madam President, I would like The biggest terrorist threat in Sweden today consists of people and values that manage to establish themselves in our country through an irresponsible immigration policy. Although Stefan Löfven has stated that there should be order and order in immigration policy, the examples of failures and exceptions are so close that the words have come to lack all meaning. The latest is that the government wants to grant a residence permit for 9 000 foreigners who do not have refugee status by abolishing the requirement to prove their identity. Given that the world's greatest terrorist threat today, the Islamic State, has stated that it is using migratory flows to infiltrate the countries of Europe, I would like to ask Minister Baylan a question. What steps has the government taken to ensure that none of these 9 000 migrants are already a terrorist threat?
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-256	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Adam Marttinen, for a question that is very urgent! Terror is a plague that not only threatens us, but we have that threat in common with most of the world today. We shall, of course, do our utmost to prevent and prevent this. From the very beginning, through a strategy against extremism and terrorism together with most of the parties in the Riksdag, the government has taken action. We have invested heavily in both the police and the Security Service to see that they have the muscles to take on this. This does not mean that we can always guarantee that there will be no acts of terrorism, but I believe that the most important thing we can do is to ensure that both the police and the Security Service have the necessary resources and that we have the legislation to prevent and remedy in cases where something is discovered to be going on. We are constantly working on this, and we will continue to have to do so.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-259	Madam President, I would like Neither resources nor legislation is far from sufficient, as we have noted in many debates in this House. No later than today, the government announced its intention to extend border control, inter alia, because there is a risk of terrorists entering our country. It is an objective that will be worth water when you at the same time abolish the requirement to prove the identity of thousands of migrants who have already managed to enter our country. Quite honestly, it seems that the government is competing to have Europe's, if not the world's, worst policy to counter threats to internal security. What you've caused our country so far, I think we've only seen the beginning of.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-261	Madam President, I would like It is quite clear that according to the Swedish Democrats, one is by definition a potential threat of terror just because one happens to be an immigrant. It should be remembered that the worst terrorist act in modern times in Scandinavia was actually committed by Anders Behring Breivik – a person who was born in Norway and who committed it for political, right-wing, reasons. Either way, we will do our utmost to prevent this from happening. That's why we have border controls. That is why we have various forms of reinforcement of the police and security police, and we will continue to do so.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-262	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Minister for Infrastructure. The government wants to give municipalities the right to ban diesel cars in our cities. It is a far-reaching proposal that strikes hard at all the families who have invested in a diesel car, many times for the sake of the environment. The government wants to impose bans when there are more and smarter tools for better air quality. Many municipalities want to be able to reserve parking spaces for car pools on our streets. They want to be able to have different parking fees based on the fuel and the environmental impact of the car. These tools don't have the municipalities today. There are completed investigations and proposals, but the government is not moving on with them. Why does the government want to introduce an extreme opportunity to ban diesel cars in our cities but not through carrots and incentives to encourage car pools and the purchase of environmental cars and give people an honest chance to change?
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-265	Madam President, I would like I find it fascinating how the Moderates cut the closer we get to the election. There is no ban on 1.3 million diesel cars, as can be read in moderate debate articles across the country. On the other hand, there is a desire, not least by politicians in Stockholm, to be able to do something about the air pollution that exists, for example, on Hornsgatan, where the hydrocarbon emission value is double. It is clear that something needs to be done to protect public health, and in the light and traces of the diesel scandal that has been going on in Europe, many European politicians want to find ways to meet the challenge of ensuring public health. Then we, the government, have said: let us make a regulatory framework that is the same throughout the country and that allows local politicians to limit the possibilities for future car parks on certain streets or in certain parts. I think it is important that we give local politicians this opportunity to ensure public health, but no one should imagine that it limits diesel car sales in Sweden.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-268	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the answer to a completely different question from the one I asked! My question was, then, when the government intends to come back with proposals that will enable municipalities to reserve street ground for car pools and when the government will provide the opportunity for municipalities to introduce different parking fees depending on the environmental impact of a car, i.e. good, wise and smart measures to enable municipalities to encourage people to switch instead of simply banning certain cars.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-270	Madam President, I would like I chose to answer the question of environmental zones because Jessica Rosencrantz began by trying to claim that there is a ban on diesel cars, which is not true. Now that this issue has been investigated – there is no ban on diesel cars – I can say that there is no doubt that we in the government want to stimulate in various ways the opportunities for municipalities to create a better environment in the inner cities, to find more opportunities for bi-pool use and to switch to charging infrastructure. It is sad that the Moderates then choose to remove money that goes to charging infrastructure in their budget option.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-271	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Ibrahim Baylan. Almost two years ago, the government in Almedalen made a move to set up a delegation against segregation. One of the main elements of the list of measures was to act against crime in the segregated areas. Among other things, there was mention of attacks on blue light personnel and how to strengthen crime prevention locally. Two years later, I note that we have not yet raised the scale of penalties for blue-light attacks. The Social Democrats have also not said yes to the Liberals' proposal of 2 000 municipal security guards. The last time I heard an example from Uppsala, where the municipality had applied for a larger geographical area for security guards to patrol in, but there was not only a refusal but a smaller area to dispose of.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-275	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Roger Haddad! Yes, the government takes the issue of segregation very seriously. In order to reverse this trend, we have used our common resources from the outset, in the form of general welfare enhancements and targeted initiatives for schools, police and social services, and more. Madam President, I would like I'm not happy. Although the employment rate in our segregated suburbs is increasing, I am not satisfied, although the school results are beginning to turn upwards, I am not satisfied and although the shootings are starting to move in the right direction, I am not satisfied. We need to do more. Therefore, the government will continue to tighten the penalties. We will also make sure to increase the possibilities of using camera surveillance but also to be able to use both police and guards.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-278	Madam President, I would like I am sorry to say that this is not the case two years after, but we have fewer police officers. In addition, the results in comprehensive school are falling again. It's troubling. The Liberals have also paid attention to this. My question was whether the government will be able to act now when we begin to see that municipalities, for example Uppsala – but next time it may be in another municipality – apply for a larger geographical area where police and security guards can prevent crime together. Uppsala was rejected. How does the government view this?
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-280	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, Roger Haddad and the Liberals have turned to blacking out a rather serious situation. Yes, there are problems. And we deal with them. Yes, we have carried out some thirty penalties. And we will continue to do so, to ensure that the police have the tools to prosecute and prevent crime. Yes, we will have to make further efforts, such as preventive action in relation to school and welfare, and in terms of being able to set up cameras and use guards. We will never compromise on security.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-286	Madam President, I would like Since autumn 2015 and winter 2016, the number of persons granted assistance compensation from the state has decreased by over 1,400. In view of the population increase, we could have expected that the number would have increased. As a result, every year the government saves 4 to 5 billion in rounds. It saves those who perhaps more than some others need the support of society.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-289	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Emma Henriksson, for the question and for the opportunity to further try to sort out something that is extremely complex. I am convinced that Emma Henriksson, chairman of the Parliamentary Social Committee, and other members of the Swedish Parliament, knows that it is a complex piece of legislation. And it is not savings that lie at the heart of this, but unclear legislation in which judicial review has led to a change in case law, which in a moment has changed the everyday life of a great many people. It would be nice if Emma Henriksson or other party representatives did not try to make it sound like the government's savings are the basis for this. On the contrary, this is precisely about unclear legislation. Nevertheless, the government has taken steps. It's about freezing two-year trials. And it is a matter of establishing that waiting time and preparedness are part of basic needs. These are changes from 1 April onwards. So changes are being made. I hope that many parties in the Swedish Parliament will be involved in the work that will be required to make clear and more predictable legislation when the investigator is finished.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-294	Madam President, I would like There are probably many out there who have drawn a sigh of relief that there are no further deteriorations. Things were under way that would have led to even more people getting rid of their personal assistance, support and other efforts to which they are entitled under the LSS. But the fact remains: more than a thousand people have lost a right and a support that was originally the intention of the legislator that they should receive. This means that the central government costs have been reduced by 4 – 5 billion annually. And it will continue until we change the law.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-296	Madam President, I would like I am aware that there is a great deal of concern among many who are in great need and who have had assistance and need assistance in the future. I would like to emphasise that assistance is part of a comprehensive piece of legislation, namely the LSS. It is important that we all understand that different efforts are needed for different individuals. But I would like to emphasise once again that there have been no savings on assistance. On the other hand, I am very concerned that we have such unclear legislation. I hope that together we have the energy and courage to make it clearer and more predictable.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-299	Madam President, I would like The roll-out of broadband and IT communications is a priority for all people to be covered by communication, distributed well-being and more. The IT and telecoms industry recently met with the Minister for Infrastructure regarding the long processing times and the non-transparent processing process that presides for broadband operators to dig along roads and railways managed by the Finnish Transport Administration. Measures were then promised to speed up the process and create a more transparent process. Unfortunately, nothing has happened. This is still a major problem for the expansion. The processing times on the road currently vary between four and six months. Some applications submitted in September last year were accepted only yesterday. On the railway side, the corresponding processing times are up to seven months.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-303	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Anders Åkesson! It is extremely important that we can reach the broadband target. It is, of course, this government's major reform to ensure that we have digital opportunities throughout the country. Because we are a government for the whole country. The expansion plan is incredibly ambitious. My ambition and that of the government is for us to achieve the goal, and then all actors must help. I've been courted by the industry. And I know that there is a dialogue between the industry and Trafikverket that the data should be complete before submitting them. The industry itself should take greater responsibility to ensure that it has a good basis when applying to bury broadband cables in different parts of the country. But there is also no doubt that the Finnish Transport Administration has to improve its procedures for managing this. I also prepare such a commission to the Finnish Transport Administration. I think it is necessary to be clear. This objective must be achieved.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-308	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. It is clear that the issue is being taken seriously. But if the broadband target is to be achieved, i.e. that the whole country should be covered by functional IT and telecommunications infrastructure – which the Swedish Parliament as a whole supports – all state actors must play with and help each other. At the moment, the lack of transparency and the very long processing times mean that an object, perhaps in the state council's home district, which submits its application in the spring in reality may not start to build until next year.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-311	Madam President, I would like That is precisely why it is urgent that we are clear. Authorities have an obligation to be able to implement and ensure that we can achieve the goals we have set ourselves. The Swedish Transport Agency is now working closely with existing broadband companies, which are actors and operators to speed up administration within the authorities. I've been courted by them myself. And I will make sure that the Finnish Transport Administration takes its mission seriously.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-314	Madam President, I would like Running a school is a big responsibility. A student cannot complain about a failure to attend school. School is simply too important for big profits or religious influences to govern our children's education. High grades should be set for students to meet the knowledge requirements, not to give a good picture of the school. Let me say one thing of course: not everyone is fit to run a school. Unserious and directly criminal actors do not have to do in school. That goes without saying to me and to us Social Democrats. Therefore, my question to Minister Shekarabi is: Can the Government here, before the House and the Swedish people, describe the government's initiative to stop rogue actors from getting permission to start school?
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-317	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Matilda Ernkrans, for this important question! We have among the world's most generous rules for the establishment of schools. We allow extreme religions to set up free schools and receive public funds. We allow commercial venture capital companies to start schools with the aim of having a high return and profit distribution. No other country has such generous rules, and it is our children who pay the price. The government has made up its mind. We're gonna put an end to this. The Parliament has two proposals on its table. One proposal concerns ownership and management testing and deals with who should be the owner and lead your school activities. The second proposal concerns the limitation of profits in Swedish schools. These are proposals that are necessary to create order and to put an end to the situation that we have today. We stand out in comparison with all Western countries. No other country allows this disorder within the publicly funded school. That's what we're gonna stop.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-321	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the committed answer! This is very important news from the Swedish Government. The Riksdag has to handle two proposals that we will do our very best to take through in this Parliament. Unfortunately, the success of these proposals may not go the way we want to go. There are other things we can do, namely to ensure that the principle of public access also prevails in our listed companies. Of course there are free schools that do good things, but transparency must be the same there as in municipal schools.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-324	Madam President, I would like The question is not settled. It is this House that decides whether or not to allow unlimited profit withdrawals from school, if we are to allow inappropriate owners to run school activities. It is you who sit in this House who decide this. If the Swedish Parliament is able to resist the interests of lobbyists, then we have legislation in place on 1 January to put an end to this. Now the ball lies with the Riksdag, and the Swedish people are following developments.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-327	Madam President, I would like When a politician is personally affected by a question, it may be important to keep a distance. Today, however, I would like to join all those who took a sigh of relief when the government clearly set its foot against savings in the LSS. There were many who had a lump in their stomach at the thought of reconsideration, reduced hours or even rejection. The lump in the stomach was worn by her who had just got a job and perhaps had to stop, by him who wanted to continue a full parenthood where other people's hands were also needed, by the big brother who needed his parents even when the little sister who can't breathe herself came into the world. The LSS certainly needs to be reviewed, Madam President, in order to strengthen the rights of those who need welfare most, not to save. Today I want to hear from Lena Hallengren about what is the government's vision for LSS.
i-vx628LTjLP9DHJ1As2tmu	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Annika Hirvonen Falk, for the question! Security and security of people who dare are my own and the government's starting point in politics. LSS is a very important part of this. I would like to emphasise that there are many other elements of disability policy that deserve to be debated, discussed and strengthened. But your question was just about LSS. With regard to people's need to receive the necessary support, this may involve assistance, guidance or interpreting services. There are many different initiatives. My vision, of course, is to ensure that each individual is seen as the individual you are and that we understand that people have different needs. The need to participate fully in working life, in school, in education and in family life is extremely important. The Government's ambition with the added investigation – which no longer has a saving requirement – is that it should focus on...
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-334	Madam President, I would like It is clear that the Government is committed. It is incredibly important to have the individual in the centre. Today, in reality, if a person is denied assistance, he falls completely between the chairs. Of course, addressing is also a problem. If welfare does not carry those who need it most, I am convinced that its legitimacy in all of us will be eroded.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-337	Madam President, I would like The individual at the centre is absolutely crucial and also that the law is so clear and predictable that you dare to trust that you get support. It is rarely temporary, but it is often about longer periods of time. In April, the government decided not to carry out two-yearreviews and that waiting and preparedness are part of basic needs. We also have ahead of us a decision that when government assistance is denied and the needs are deemed to be less, the municipality should contact the individual in order to find other appropriate measures. State presence and disparities between regions
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-340	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Shekarabi. The gaps between small and large towns are increasing in Sweden. The disparities between regions are also increasing. SNS has shown in a report that the gaps have increased since the 1980s. The gaps between regions are now at the same level as in the 1930s. What kind of regional policy do we conduct in Sweden that pushes this development? Or is it the absence of regional politics that creates the divides and which in turn has created phenomena such as Brexit, Trump and other nationalist movements in the world? People feel abandoned in the globalised world. My question is: is there really a rural perspective in the government's efforts? What about forestry policy, infrastructure investments, beach protection rules and the relocation of authorities? Is the whole country in use, and is the state represented throughout the country?
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-344	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Peter Helander, for an extremely central issue! My answer is simple: yes, after eight years of disaster in terms of the responsibility of the administration for the cohesion of our country, we are now beginning to see a change. During the previous three years, we have started with a relocation policy where we move state jobs and government agencies from Stockholm to other parts of the country. We are establishing new businesses outside Stockholm, even outside the residential cities, to ensure better dissemination of government jobs. Now, in the coming weeks, we are opening up new state service agencies where you can carry out your government affairs in ten of the labour market regions with the worst state presence. But it's just a start. We must stick to this. We must put up the flag and symbols of the Swedish state in all parts of our country and ensure that all citizens really feel that the Swedish state takes responsibility for cohesion.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-347	Madam President, I would like The Government also knows that this has been going on since the 1980s, so it is not about the last eight. I can agree that this is a problem in the structure of society. We invest resources in growth areas. If one were to build high-speed trains between three big cities, and so it moves hundreds of thousands of people into these places. It's amazing. What growth! But where do these people come from? They come from areas where this creates an even greater gap. Isn't there a risk here?
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-349	Madam President, I would like Yes, there are risks. In my area of responsibility, we need to have governance. It is not up to each Director-General to deal with the issues of location, but the government has overall responsibility. We must stick to the developments that we have had over the last three years in which we go in and govern the authorities. It is not always comfortable, but it is necessary for the cohesion of our country, for participation. The citizens of the whole country should feel that the state takes responsibility for the whole country, not just for the big cities.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-352	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Infrastructure! Critical voices are raised that rural roads are of very poor standard. Åsa Sjödén (S), Chairman of the Municipal Board of Sollefteå, writes in Dagens Samhälle that you do not require four-lane motorways, but you want to avoid driving on gravel roads that are in such bad condition that the cars break down when you drive on them. Therese Kärngard(S) in the municipality of Berg shares Åsa Sjödén's view and adds that those who live in rural areas daily drive many miles on these bad roads to get to work and that the level of these roads needs to be raised. We know that both freight and passenger traffic are increasing, and it is also increasing wear and tear. How does the Minister intend to act to raise the funding and thus the standard of roads, mainly in sparsely populated areas?
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-356	Madam President, I would like We'll raise the road envelopes. When the Finnish Transport Administration came up with its proposal for a national plan, they warned that there was a risk that at the end of the planning period we would lose the quality of the capillary road network as it is called, i.e. smaller roads in rural areas. Then we in the government actually said that it was not acceptable, and already the following month we added SEK 300 million in the budget bill in so-called pothole money. This means extra earmarked money to secure and improve the quality of the smaller road network. It was, by the way, a budget that the Swedish Democrats voted against. I believe that it is absolutely necessary to improve the quality of the whole of Sweden's infrastructure. It was sadly underfunded during the years when we had bourgeois government in Sweden. We are now putting EUR 100 billion more into the forthcoming national infrastructure plan so that both roads and railways, but also shipping, will have better prospects in the future.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-358	Madam President, I would like The investment of 622 1⁄2 billion is solid. There's nothing to be fooled with. However, the Swedish National Audit Office's report says that there is still a lack of 18 billion to maintain a good road standard. In Trafikverket's investments on roads, approximately SEK 12 300 per person is invested in the metropolitan regions, while only 4,000 per person is invested on the roads in the rest of the country. Why the misallocation?
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-360	Madam President, I would like Our ambition is to ensure that there will be infrastructure investments throughout the country. It must end the centralisation of resources that has been going on in Sweden for a long time. As Minister Shekarabi explained earlier, it is not only about moving out government services and activities and also increasing employment throughout the country, but also ensuring that there are better educational opportunities and better communication opportunities. We're a government for the whole country. Now that we spend 100 billion more on infrastructure than the previous government did, it will be felt.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-362	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister of Civil Affairs Ardalan Shekarabi. The government will now present a proposal to reform the gambling market. This is a welcome proposal, as the situation in Sweden has been characterised by the fact that unregulated gaming companies can operate unhindered on the Swedish market without paying taxes. As they grow, we lose huge tax revenue. But changes often cause anxiety. The horse industry is now uncertain about the future. My question to the Government is: how can we ensure the future financing of the horse industry with the introduction of a licensing system?
i-SUhoPaq6AkoRDo29MMsvrF	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Amne Ali, for an important question! First of all, I would like to thank the Riksdag very much for its good cooperation in relation to the game reform. This reform should have been implemented ten years ago. This has meant that the Swedish state has lost control of the gambling market, and consumers have had to pay a very high price for the lack of control. But also the horse industry and other gaming players on the Swedish market who have paid taxes here and who have been licensed to operate have paid a price through unhealthy competition from companies based outside the Swedish legal system. We are now carrying out a reform, but we will ensure that the interests of the Swedish horse industry are safeguarded. This means that we will shortly be setting up an investigation that will look at the horse industry's revenue from gambling activities. We are not compromising on this. The horse industry is important for Sweden and for rural areas. The revenue from gambling activities is crucial for the future of the horse industry. This must therefore be taken into account in the forthcoming process.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-369	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. As the Minister said, the situation had been unsustainable in the long term. For a long time, efforts have been made to bring about regulation of the gambling market. But how will the government ensure that as many players as possible join the licensing system?
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-371	Madam President, I would like It is about having a system with a proper and good balance between requirements and restrictions and the ability to channel the companies into the Swedish system. We have produced a bill that is now on the table of Parliament. It is well-balanced, according to all market assessors. But we will also have to be tough on those players who do not have a Swedish license. They're off the market. We should not have any illegal players in the Swedish gaming market. They're going away, and we're going to use all the means to do it.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-374	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Infrastructure. When I meet with those who work in the transport sector, both truck drivers and road hauliers, representatives of shipping, rail and ports, a question often arises and dominates the debate. This applies whether we are talking about the transfer of goods from road to rail and shipping or whether we are talking about the situation on the roads. It concerns the competitive situation in the transport sector and the unsustainable impact of dumped road transport prices on freight transport. There are two parts to this. The first part is that, through increased controls, we can ensure that those who drive illegally get caught. The second part concerns the fact that, regardless of whether we have police officers who catch all those who are not doing the right thing, we will have a system where competition is unequal because we are competing under different conditions. This is resolved through discussions within the EU, and I would like to ask the Minister for Infrastructure how these discussions are going.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-377	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. It's extremely important. Swedish haulage industry has suffered years of liberalisation in the transport sector. With social dumping and poor quality of transport, the competitive conditions for Swedish haulage industry have deteriorated. If we want a good transport fleet in Sweden, we must ensure that the conditions of competition are fair. That is why we are negotiating toughly in Brussels now on the forthcoming mobility package. But we also do things at home in Sweden. At the moment, 400 police officers are being trained in cabotage controls to ensure control. We have increased the penalties for those who violate driving and rest rules. We lock down the tires for over 36 hours for those who break the rules. And we are now introducing an orderer liability which means that the professional orderer has an obligation to ensure that they are legal all the way. This will mean fair competition conditions, better opportunities for Swedish haulage industry and also better conditions for those who drive for foreign haulage companies so that there will be good conditions on the Swedish labour market. Swedish laws and agreements shall apply.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-380	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Infrastructure for this. It is very nice to see that much of what has been talked about for several years here in the Swedish parliament and around now becomes reality through a Social Democratic government. I want to go back to what the Minister for Infrastructure said at the end. It was about the conditions under which lorry drivers from other countries live. What are the possibilities? Do we have allies in EU cooperation? Are there good forces that want to change the conditions so that there is equal pay for equal work, no matter which country you work in.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-382	Madam President, I would like Yes, several Member States share our view. Of course, we want free movement in Europe. At the same time, however, there should be order, and laws and agreements in each Member State should be kept. We have good cooperation with several of the Member States, not least Germany and France. This means that I have good hopes that we can find good solutions. But again, we can do a lot at home. Just take one such thing as the winter tyre regulation that applies to foreign vehicles! This will equalise the conditions of competition so that well-managed Swedish companies have a level playing field.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-385	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Shekarabi. The government has made it clear that the state should exist throughout the country and has decided to relocate several government agencies. That's great. At the same time, many of us who live in smaller towns feel that the closure of state activities is going on in silence. My clearest example comes from Fagersta. For a long time, Försäkringskassan has gradually moved almost all the services to the larger office in Västerås. Soon there will be so few posts left in Fagersta that it is not effective to keep an office there. It's a streamlining, according to the manager in charge. But it still helps to reduce the number of government jobs in northern Västmanland. I mean, this is a sneak-down. If we're really going to have government presence in the whole country, and not just Systembolaget and the police, I wonder what the government can do about this.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-389	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Åsa Eriksson, for the question! It shows that we are not quite done with our work to ensure a good state presence throughout the country. Against this background, we are working on a proposal which is currently being consulted and which deals with government control in localisation issues. It is simply a matter of introducing a regulation that requires the heads of agencies to carry out impact assessments, to report the impact assessments and to inform the county administrative boards in connection with decisions relating to the winding-up of state activities. We do this because we want the authorities to think actively. We want to obtain information and create good conditions for collaboration between government agencies in order to ensure a good presence. In parallel, we are carrying out a reform with state service agencies. The state authorities join forces and set up joint service offices with the aim of being located throughout the country. That reform needs to be developed.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-392	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for that answer. I am pleased and certainly many more people who live in small towns around the country, because this is a fairly common problem. I also note the Government's previous response, that the ten new state service offices to be opened are just a start. That, too, was a very good news. Does this mean that we can eventually count on government service agencies throughout the country?
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-394	Madam President, I would like Yes, we will continue to work on the issue of service offices. Exactly what the construction will look like in terms of attendance, we will have to come back to. But the whole idea is to bring the state authorities together in an organisation in order to offer the citizens much better government services on the ground throughout the country. However, exactly how we construct this needs to be developed. After all, we want as many authorities as possible to be connected to this system, so that more state affairs can be carried out.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-395	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Hallengren. LSS has taken over the entire debate in recent years. This applies in particular to the state's personal assistance. But there are many other important issues to discuss in the funkis movement: the possibility of work, the impaired health and so on. Unfortunately, the debate has also often been false, with allegations that the government has an ambition to save money. Just to clarify, I can say that it has been primarily case law that has had an impact. The government has initiated a solid investigation into LSS. The directives have been debated. I therefore welcome the proposal from you, Lena Hallengren, to remove the requirement for savings and cost efficiency. But I still want to ask you a question, why right now?
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-399	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. When I took up office as a minister barely two months ago, this was one of the priorities on which I came to work most. I will continue to do so too. I would like to stress that the concerns of many of us, including myself, have been shared. It's been on the government agenda. It is clear that all our welfare systems should be economically sustainable. However, the judgments that have come have changed the case law and have caused people to lose their assistance and to have their everyday conditions changed. It is important that we take this very seriously. There are no longer any saving requirements in the directives, and I am very pleased that I was able to present this on Monday. I think that relieves a great deal of the anxiety that many have felt. It also allows the investigator to focus on the main task, namely to look at how legislation can ensure equality and participation.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-402	Madam President, I would like My follow-up question to Lena Hallengren will then be: Will the investigator have time to change from the last amendment to the directives? We know that this is an extensive and extensive investigation. We've really tightened the bow. It is a large and complex piece of legislation. The investigator himself has also requested more time. Will she have time to consider this before the proposal is submitted?
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-403	Madam President, I would like This is an incredibly important and urgent investigation. The investigator has had a little more time. I am very hopeful, both that this will have time and that there will be a high-quality work that Parliament can then take over. I believe that we need to have a very broad collaboration in order to really change and clarify this legislation, so that it puts the individual at the centre, is clear and predictable, provides the security it is intended to provide and helps to live freely on equal terms.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-405	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister Baylan. A little less than a year ago, the government commissioned the Swedish Energy Agency to investigate the conditions for my home country Gotland to become a pilot state for a renewable energy system. This is, of course, fully in line with the ambition that Sweden should have fully renewable energy production by 2040, as five parties in this House have agreed. The Swedish Energy Agency presented its mission in early April and presented a wide range of possible measures for Gotland to take the lead – and of course also for Sweden to take the lead in the world – in presenting a fully renewable energy system. Some of these measures are closer to date than others. We already have some technology today. Others we need to invest more in in order to develop, including through innovation and research. My question to the Government is therefore: How can we proceed with the work to ensure that Sweden and Gotland can be at the forefront of creating a renewable energy system?
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-409	Madam President, I would like I thank David Lindvall for the question. That's right. It is now in Parliament a proposal supported by five parties – the two parties of the government, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Center Party – which is about setting the target of 100 percent renewable electricity production by 2040. I think that is one of the most important things we can do today. We know that the climate problems come from the fact that we have used far too much fossil energy. 70% of all the extra carbon dioxide in the atmosphere has come because we have used that type of energy. If Gotland and Sweden can show that it is possible to live a good life in a prominent industrial country, travel and stay comfortable at home in a way that does not destroy the environment or the climate, we are doing not only ourselves a service, but the whole world. Against this background, I would like to go further and continue to make Gotland the first area in Sweden with 100% renewable electricity production.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-411	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. We really share the ambition that both Gotland and Sweden must be able to demonstrate that it is possible to combine a robust energy system with renewableness and responsibility for the living environment of future generations. We Gotlanders are used to going ahead and showing the way quite often, but also doing things in broad collaboration. My follow-up question concerns just that. This will, of course, require that private and public actors and lots of stakeholders interact in order to create sustainable solutions. How does the Government view it?
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-412	Madam President, I would like I take a very positive view of that. When I was on Gotland and received the Swedish Energy Agency's report, I met a huge energy and a positive spirit with both private actors, not least Cementa, as well as the public actors. It is against this background that I would like to see us move on in the near future to catch up on this very positive energy. We can show that it is possible to live a good life in a sustainable way, whether on Gotland or on the other side of the world.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-413	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask my question to Minister of the Elderly Lena Hallengren. We have now received good news that pensioners will have improved conditions. The poorest pensioners will receive up to SEK 1,300 more a month. Those who may be a little better but still have a hard time – it can be people who have worked a large part of their lives in low-wage jobs – will get up to SEK 600 more. That is very positive news. But there is a major problem, namely, all those who do not seek what they are entitled to. The housing allowance is intended to help pensioners with low pensions to pass the rent, which can often be high. But many do not seek housing allowance. About 100,000 people who are entitled to this are not looking for it. That's a lot of thousands they're losing. How can you reach them and get them to search for a better economy?
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-416	Madam President, I would like I thank Hillevi Larsson for the question. I would like to begin by emphasising that this is not really my question but Annika Strandhälls. Instead, let me talk a little about older people's policy and the fact that we have a situation where many older people do not feel secure. This can be true both of the care you need and of the economic situation you are in. We know that many, not least women, become poor when they grow old. It is therefore very gratifying that a large majority in the Riksdag has been able to agree in proposals that could do it better. Then Hillevi Larsson describes what is a Social Democratic election promise. Perhaps it is important to emphasise that. This means SEK 600 more for pensioners who have had regular, important, urgent jobs and jobs in our welfare. That is something that we look forward to describing further and also implementing in the next parliamentary term.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-420	Let me remind you that questions should be about the government and the government's practice.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-421	Madam President, I would like There is a majority in favour of improving for the most deprived pensioners. There we have a pension agreement that means that they will get up to SEK 1,300 more. As for those entitled to housing allowance, there is a problem with many feeling that they are not entitled to it. They feel that it is a grant that they must apply for. It is important to inform that it is part of the pension system. They're entitled to it. It is very important to reach those who do not know that there is and get them to seek it so that they get more.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-424	Madam President, I would like The question of the housing supplement is not in my briefcase. The problem described by Hillevi Larsson is something that many of us see. It is clear that it is problematic that billions of dollars are not sought for them have the lowest incomes. Of course, efforts are needed to ensure that they are sought. It is also a matter of jointly ensuring that the picture is that it is a right and not a grant they are seeking. Our pensioners have the right to feel secure both in their care and in their finances.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-428	Madam President, I would like My question also concerns women's opportunities to make a living, and at all, that people should be able to make a living. One of the gender equality policy objectives is that each individual should be able to support themselves. This applies, of course, to both women and men. It is a good thing that we now see that unemployment is going down in general and that more people are coming to work. This applies to both women and men and young people. Those furthest from the labour market are women born abroad. I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Equality or to the person responsible for the question. If it is a horizontal question, you may judge for yourself. What measures are being taken to give foreign-born women an opportunity to support themselves and also to have a good life both now and in old age?
i-4zehNENToFFRyrjGroAiNV	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Carina Ohlsson, for the question. There are two parts. One is about taking measures where we have seen that there have been structures that have prevented, not least, foreign-born women from entering the labour market. We know that the design of parental insurance has been such a case. There we now have a broad consensus on making changes that will make them come out faster. It's especially important. I remember myself what it was like to be new. The fact that Mom got out quite quickly has meant that she has been on the labour market throughout that period. This also applies generally to those who come now. In the same way, we have removed the custody allowance, which was a female trap for not least foreign-born women. At the same time, we have given an assignment to Arbetsförmedlingen to make sure to strengthen education but also get out people who have recently come to our country to work. We all benefit from that. It is both about removing obstacles and about rewarding both education and work. Finally, we are talking about aid, not least in the form of employment aid, which often goes to people with an immigrant background.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-436	Madam President, I would like When I meet women and also foreign-born women, what they mention is asking us to be a support in meeting places where they can meet. Often people get a job by having a network of contacts and networks. Many women say that they find it harder to get jobs because they do not have a network and network. How do you work concretely with these questions in the Government Office?
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-438	Madam President, I would like That's it. If you do not have the contact network, public support is even more important. That is why we have invested so much in getting people out of their first job. It's about start-up jobs, extra services and more. It is also very important that we are clear when people come here. We expect both men and women to work in our country. It's not like that everywhere. We can only look at some of our neighbours. There we see a significantly lower proportion of women's employment opportunities. It's about both supporting and being very clear: This is what we expect, because that's how it works in Swedish society.
i-aeb6ab8b9f66206f-459	State presence and disparities between regions
