i-7RsDLXaxjNG3uswXFQuDcc	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jenny Petersson, for this urgent interpellation! Jenny Petersson has asked me what concrete measures I am going to take to curb the negative development that is currently taking place, where more and more children are becoming homeless, what my analysis is of the work of the social services in relation to the abuse of homeless children and whether more assistance should be provided by the social services. Jenny Petersson has also asked, pending investigations and reports, what measures I intend to take to increase efforts for homeless children. Homelessness is a serious social problem, especially when children are affected. Save the Children, Stockholms Stadsmission and the Children's Ombudsman points out that families with children are a group that is hard hit by homelessness. The National Board of Health and Welfare's survey of homelessness and exclusion from the housing market, presented in December 2017, showed that one third of all 33,000 persons reported had children under 18 years of age. One third of these were reported to have fallen into homelessness as a result of not having been approved on the regular housing market, but they did not have any other need for social services support. Of all parents, around 6,423 lived with their children and more than half were single, of which 69 per cent were women. Social Services are making great efforts to solve the housing situation of families with children. Most people live in the longer-term housing solutions that social services offer in the form of social contracts. The results of the survey also show that the situation varies across the country in terms of the groups affected, age, gender, causes of homelessness, etc. Increased knowledge like this strengthens the municipalities' ability to provide support and care for children and their families and to design appropriate measures. Social services also play an important role in the prevention of evictions. The National Board of Health and Welfare has developed concrete support for social services in their efforts to prevent evictions, which was published in December 2017. The support material contains both practical guidance on how the municipality should act at the risk of eviction and on how active prevention and outreach work can be carried out. Knowledge support has been longed for by social services and will contribute to improved work in municipalities. There is a shortage of housing in many of the country's municipalities. The housing shortage tends to hit those groups that have a weak position on the housing market for various reasons. It is mainly about the lack of rental apartments but also about requirements for references and income to be accepted as a tenant. However, Boverket reports relief from the larger landlords in terms of income requirements for future tenants. The government has carried out the largest housing policy investment in a long time, including investment aid for more rental housing and student housing with reasonable rents. Dwellings shall be treated in accordance with open and transparent principles in which landlords may only make reasonable demands on the finances of applicants for housing. It is also a question of the government strengthening the conditions for those who have the least margins in society and who are most at risk of falling outside the housing market, for example through increased maintenance support. Improving the situation of families with low economic standards is an important task for the government, where economic family policies and labour market and education policies are at the centre of focus. In this way, we are also working to prevent homelessness. To counteract the development of acute homelessness, the Government has decided on SEK 25 million annually in 2018 – 2021 in targeted state grants to municipalities with many homeless women and men. The municipality decides how best to use the funds and whether they go to self-directed activities or to other actors who meet homeless women and men and families, such as voluntary organisations. A well-functioning family economic and labour market policy, while building more and more housing with reasonable rents, are long-term measures that together slow down the development of homelessness affecting families. Homelessness is a complex problem and requires collaboration from many social actors.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-32	Madam President, I would like Just as Minister Åsa Regnér says, homelessness is a serious social problem, especially when children are involved. These children are hit very hard. As I wrote in my interpellation, we can never accept homelessness in Sweden, especially not homeless children. It is with great sadness and concern that I and we can all see that the number of children who become homeless or who are forced to live in homelessness and move around between different accommodations is unfortunately increasing in Sweden. Of course, the state, the municipality and individual adults have a great responsibility. If you move around between different unsafe accommodations, many children may be forced to live in a crowded space. We're talking about housing. Here neither I nor Åsa Regnér can say what the municipalities should do, but they can certainly work more with who is prioritised and housing building, which Åsa Regnér was into, and with social services and how to work in social services; I will return to that. Here we have a responsibility and here we can do more in terms of working methods and changes in legislation. The children's perspective focuses on the children. All the research and studies show that children who grow up in these unsafe accommodations, who are allowed to move between different places and who are allowed to live in confined spaces, experience exclusion because they move around. Kneaks are torn up, and they slip after their mates if they succeed in obtaining them. They end up in alienation in the sense that they are forced to lie about their living with people in the environment. These children can live briefly in one place and may not even tell you where to live. They're falling behind in school. There has been a topical debate on measles. Children with short-term housing cannot even go to the same BVC in terms of support and vaccination. Children may have difficulty sleeping, and mental illness among these children is increasing. As I said, there are studies and research that show this. As I said, it is with great concern and sorrow that I see the number of children growing up in homelessness increasing. In her answer, Åsa Regnér mentions social services and that it has a very important role. So do I. There's a lot more we can do here. I definitely believe that knowledge support is good and that eviction is prevented. Does Åsa Regnér see that any changes need to be made to the legislation in this area when it comes to the work of social services?
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-41	Madam President, I would like Åsa Regnér has presented the government's policy in this area, and it is crucial in terms of both housing policy and family policy, as well as the work to close gaps and help poor families with children. I would like to raise one more issue, namely EBO, own accommodation. The government has announced a change in that law. Own accommodation means that newly arrived refugees can choose where they want to live. In many ways this has worked well. It will be easier to integrate if, for example, you live with a family that already has roots in the country. The problem arises when there is a very large housing shortage. I can take an example from my own municipality of residence, Malmö. The municipality has no control over who is moving to Malmö, as you choose if and to whom you want to move. Often it is believed that you only occasionally live in another family, but many times it is a very long time when the housing shortage is so great. There will be problems not least for the children of these families, because it will be crowded if two families are to live in an apartment. It will be difficult for children to get to study and be able to do their homework. Many problems are linked to this. That is why we have been calling for a change for a long time, and now the government has announced that we should look more closely at the social situation of those who come through their own homes. It is necessary to ensure that living conditions are reasonable. This will be presented by the Receipt Investigation, whose proposal is expected to be presented in March. I look forward to this because I think it is important to fight homelessness among children. We don't just have the problem of overcrowding. When it does not work to live in the municipality for a very long time, you can go to the municipality's social services. Then it will be the task of the social services to find housing. When the housing shortage is huge, it becomes a very tough task. Malmö has many homeless children. At the same time, however, I would like to highlight Malmö as an example of a municipality that is good at combating homelessness. When it comes to evictions of children, Malmö has a unique job. When a family with children is at risk of eviction, this goes directly to social services. This will help to prevent evictions of families with children, so that the number of homeless children will not increase even more. It is also a trauma to lose your home by eviction. It should be possible to spread this way of working by involving social services as early as possible to the rest of the country. The most common reason for eviction, not least in the case of families with children, is rent debts. It doesn't have to be a big debt, it can be quite small. In cooperation with social services, you can usually solve the situation and prevent eviction. It is a method that works to prevent evictions of families with children. Housing construction is crucial. In Malmö, the population increased by 6,200 between 2016 and 2017, which is a large increase. Many of these are families with children and many of them are new arrivals. Then there is a need for accommodation. At the same time, the construction of 4 000 new dwellings was started, a great deal of which will be housing for reasonable rents. So Malmö does a lot of things. But we need to be helped by other municipalities taking on their responsibilities, not least when it comes to receiving new arrivals.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-49	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the interpellation and contributions to this important debate! Of course, what is needed primarily in the long and short term is housing. This applies to both construction and access to built housing. They must be accessible economically and geographically to the families in need of them in this case. The government has therefore in various ways stimulated construction – more is being built in Sweden at the moment than in several decades – with a special focus on rental housing, so that more people can simply afford it. So this is needed. Of course, it is also necessary for the parents of these children to be able to support themselves and their children. We know that the majority of those who say that they are homeless have income support as the main source of income. Supply aid is supposed to serve as the last resort economically. But of course you become more independent and have a more stable life both economically and socially if you have an income from work. It is therefore gratifying that the labour market is now better than it has been for a very long time and that the participation rate and employment rates of both women and men are higher than they have been for a long time. Moreover, the participation rate of women with foreign background is as high as that of women in the EU on average. However, we need to work even more so that the families we are talking about can now get closer to the labour market. Then adult education is needed, which my colleague Anna Ekström works with in various ways. It is also necessary, for example, for social services to see both men and women as supporters when working with support. It is necessary to test the possibilities for both men and women to find work in relation to the support provided, and not in any way to assume that a man should be the main provider. That is why we have created such a mission. The Employment Service has also been tasked with bringing women, regardless of their background, closer to the labour market. I was asked whether new legislation is needed. I guess Jenny Petersson means the Social Services Act. We're reviewing the entire Social Services Act. I do not want to say that that is what is needed first and foremost, but what is needed is access to housing that people can afford to pay for, and a ability to pay, which they get, above all, through their own work. It is also important for families with children to have a better economy. This government, often together with the Left Party, has taken several initiatives to strengthen the finances of families with children here and now. I would be happy to come back to these.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-56	Madam President, I would like I am not going to say so much about what the government and the Minister for Housing are doing to facilitate the construction of the municipalities, because this is a completely different debate. However, I note that SKL does various studies, and then municipalities have stated that what prevents them from building more housing is not more or less government funding but rather the shortcomings that exist in the laws and regulations on housing construction. That's where the obstacles are. The Minister for Housing and the Government has done nothing in this area, or at least it is going very slowly. However, I leave the problem of housing and housing construction and deal with the questions I had. As I said, it was about homeless and homeless children, who unfortunately are increasing in numbers in Sweden, and that is a worrying development. One group at high risk of growing up in poverty are homeless children. Many single mothers and also many foreign - born parents live in homelessness and are forced to move around insecure housing. Among other things, Save the Children brings this up in their report A place to call at home. As I said, the consequences are great for the children. You come after school. You follow with your friends. All the routines that we take for granted are simply followed. I asked a question as to whether an analysis of the work of social services was carried out. The government says you're looking into this in a big investigation, or what to call it. You look at the social services themselves and the laws of social services. Then let us hope that there are various suggestions for getting to grips with homelessness and children living in homelessness. It is also important to focus on social services and how to work, for example, in the care of children living in homelessness. I would also like to highlight another point in this debate. It is worrying that the figures are going in the wrong direction, but there are o equal examples out there in our country. Today, it is simply up to the municipalities how they want to work on these issues. I find it sad that we do not take greater national responsibility when we see that homelessness is increasing in the country as a whole. Hillevi Larsson told us how it looks in Malmö, from which she comes. If you go a few miles north you come to Helsingborg. There the trend goes the other way – homelessness is decreasing. You have a form of housing that you call Bostad first, and you work in a completely different way. Today, therefore, it is up to the municipalities in Sweden to work on this. I find it regrettable that we are not taking greater responsibility at national level, particularly with regard to the laws and rules for which we are responsible in relation to social services.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-62	Madam President, I would like This debate is about homeless children. What we have seen in Malmö is that, overall, homelessness has not increased, but has even decreased, even though there is a huge population growth in Malmö. It has gone from 1 510 to 1 488 homeless. What is worrying is that there are more families with children and more new arrivals among the homeless now. Social homelessness, that is, homelessness due to addiction or mental illness, is as before and has not increased. But economic homelessness has increased. The only problem there is that you cannot afford a dwelling or are not allowed into the housing market. This is also linked to the lack of housing. Families with children with poor economics and new arrivals find it very difficult to get in. But it is not the case that homelessness is increasing in Malmö overall, despite population growth. Housing at first is a very good model. It is about helping people who are in social homelessness because of, for example, mental illness or abuse. There we have had 20 apartments in Malmö, and it has worked very well. Basically everyone has been able to continue living in these apartments in order to eventually get them as permanent dwellings. Now we are expanding that model to 60 apartments. It has been a very successful model. But we have to work on all fronts, not just with social homelessness, but with total homelessness. Then this is not an isolated problem, but of course it has to do with other issues. Job policy is crucial. That's where the government works very well. We have had very good results, not least when it comes to people with immigrant backgrounds. It is also about equality policy, active housing policy and policies to close the gaps. The government has quite the right strategy, and we continue to fight.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-65	Madam President, I would like I believe that the government takes responsibility for these issues. This applies, among other things, to the mapping from the authority the government has at its disposal to carry out its work on these issues, namely the National Board of Health and Welfare. The map is for a picture that you can also react to. But we have not waited for it, but we have done a great deal to strengthen the situation of families with children, both generally and specifically. We have increased child benefit and the increase will enter into force on 1 March this year. Aid for supply has been increased. We have implemented various reinforcements within the housing allowance. We've raised the multi-child allowance for the third child. During the term of office, the maintenance allowance will be increased by SEK 300, and now 2018 it will also be increased for children aged 15 and over. We have raised parental benefit at basic level for parents with the lowest incomes. We will also review housing allowance and maintenance support with particular regard to the distributional economic profile. We have also raised the national norm. These are measures that strengthen the finances of families with children here and now. We also have, for example, grants for glasses and various support for summer holiday activities. These will also reach families with the toughest economic situation and their children. That's what you do right now. But then, of course, there must be access to housing that you can pay for and a ability to pay. It is extremely important – social policy, socio-economic policy and gender equality – that both women and men work as I did before. Then it is our job to ensure that people are as well equipped as they can only be to take the jobs at hand. I had just over a week ago the pleasure of opening the new Equality Agency in Angered. During the day I was able to take part in a collaboration that really seems good. We visited various activities in Angered and could see, among other things, the collaboration that exists between preschool, open preschool, social services, child care centre and maternity care centre. In this neighborhood you often have very good contact with the children, even before they are born, and an ongoing conversation with parents about what they need, what the children need and what the parents think they would feel best about during their childhood. This has produced good results in the district. We also know that outreach care, which is in contact with other authorities, often results in a more stable social situation and greater trust between people and between people and authorities. I just think you need to do a lot of things at the same time. As far as social services are concerned, there is one thing about the Social Services Act, which I mentioned. But also, for example, social care for children and young people has been the subject of my very great interest and commitment. We have also had debates on this in the past. Among other things, we have strengthened this important part of social services with large resources for staffing, so that one has the ability to meet children in the situation in which they find themselves.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-69	Madam President, I would like I share Minister Åsa's assessment that housing is important, that jobs are important and that equality between men and women is important, also in this matter. These are important parameters. I can also note that there is a dividing line in Swedish politics between what we Moderates want and what the government does. I think that Sweden can do much more on these issues as well. But I back the band and focus on what my interpellation is about, namely homelessness and the responsibility of social services. Åsa Regnér said in her interpellation response that the National Board of Health and Welfare has done a survey of homelessness and that this survey was presented in December 2017. Åsa Regnér has later in the debate said that you should act and react to this. In short, my question is: how will the Government and the Government act and react to the survey, and what concrete measures will be taken in the future in this regard?
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-71	Madam President, I would like It came to the last post before maybe we started talking about what we possibly do not look quite the same at. My answer to the question is simply that you do not have to wait for such a survey to take action. That is why we have acted from the beginning. The situation in which many people find themselves is reflected in the survey. A relatively large group in the group has no other reason to get input from social services or need it. This is due to the economic situation itself. It has to do with the situation on the labour market and housing. I note that housing construction really did not take off during the previous bourgeois government. Similarly, many rental apartments were converted into flats, which made it difficult for many with weak finances to obtain housing. I therefore believe that housing construction is important. This also applies to access to work and a social service that is effective and able to see children's needs. That is, above all, what it is all about in itself. For example, evictions of families with children have been reduced. I'm very happy about that, of course. But then social services must also cooperate with other actors. These are very complex issues. You have social contracts. But social services are also not very easy to shake up housing because the situation is as it is. It is difficult for me to have this kind of debate without talking about access to housing in general in society. That is why we have invested a great deal in it. But all actors must also do what they can here and now around the individual child and his or her family. In that direction, we work too.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-78	Madam President, I would like Karin Rågsjö has asked me How I can speed up the process for single women so that everyone who has been legally entitled to assisted reproduction can also get it in practice If I intend to work for SKL to map and speed up the process within county councils If I intend to take measures to strengthen information to the public as to what it means to donate sperm and eggs. Since 1 April 2016, it is permitted to offer single women assisted reproduction in Swedish healthcare in the same way as married couples, registered partners and cohabiting partners. This can be done by insemination or by conception outside the body, so-called IVF treatment. It is good that there is now such a possibility in Sweden. The same rules apply to single women as to couples who need treatment with donated germ cells. The Landstingen has itself taken the initiative to achieve knowledge-based and equal care in this area. In 2014, Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils decided on a recommendation on the uniformity of the county councils and regions' offer of publicly funded assisted fertilization. It was revised in 2016 when it was then allowed to offer treatment to single women. The recommendation, to which all county councils have acceded, makes no distinction between single women and couples. The county councils themselves are responsible for the treatment offered in public health care. It is up to each county council to assess how the available resources are to be allocated in total. This also applies to the resources to be devoted to assisted fertilization. Both county councils and municipalities are currently facing major challenges when it comes to allocating resources so that access to welfare services is as good and equal as possible. Therefore, the government has proposed large additions to county councils and municipalities in the budget bill. SEK 3 billion will be invested to create more accessible care and to support county councils to create improved conditions for health care staff. In 2018, the government also invests SEK 1.6 billion in women's health. The general state grants to the local government sector have been increased by SEK 10 billion as of this year. In the Budget Bill, the Government proposes that contributions be raised permanently by SEK 5 billion in 2019 and by another SEK 5 billion in 2020. Karin Rågsjö also wonders if I will do anything to strengthen information to the public about sex cell donation. If treatment is to be offered, it is of course necessary to have access to donated germ cells. My assessment is that it is the activities themselves and their principals that are best placed to inform about this. Today, for example, such information is available at 1177.se. Regarding the issue of mapping, the government announced in the bill on the possibility of treatment for single women that a follow-up and evaluation of the legislative changes should be carried out. However, as the reform is relatively new, I believe that a further time should be allowed before it is implemented. I understand those women who are now hoping to have access to treatment in Sweden within the framework of the publicly funded healthcare system, but who are concerned about whether it will be possible for them. The Government has provided the county councils with increased opportunities for their operations through additional funds. I expect that it will also be able to contribute to more single women having access to treatment.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-89	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Annika! Today 2017, there are different family constellations. There are several choices you can make as a woman than 20 years ago. Even further back, being a single mother was a disgrace. Gender equality is something we have been fighting for a long time. It is about women's liberation and the obvious right to choose their lives and make their life choices. This is great and something the women of the labour movement have taken the front line for. Having a child is big no matter how you choose to live with the child: mother and father, mother and mother, father and father or some kind of joint responsibility. A number of women choose to have children on their own and to start a family with them and their children. It is also a major step forward. It was quite indebted only 20 years ago. The new law on assisted fertilization via insemination came in 2016. There were many parties behind and applauded just that. It gave single women the same legal right to assisted conception as couples had before. It was a welcome reform that was equal and equal. There were great hopes attached to the law. Now there have been more reports that the single women are fighting for their insemination. The queues for single women who want help with assisted fertilization are very different in the country. I still think that SKL should have had time to listen to a survey a year after the law had been introduced so that we had a little more eye on the issue. Instead, it is the Metro newspaper that has done a survey. Queues can occur twice, partly for investigation and partly for treatment. Some smaller regions do a study quite quickly, and then it takes longer when you end up in university hospitals. In Västra Götaland the queues are currently four years old, according to the report I have heard. Only 2 single women have been treated, and 187 are in line. That's quite a lot. In Sahlgrenska it is said that it would cost 15 million to reduce the queues. But no money has been earmarked for it, which one might think is a bit strange. No single woman in Stockholm County has been treated by county councils. The gender opened on 1 January 2017, and then the choice of care began. So far, no private operator has received this group. It emphasises both from Västra Götaland and Stockholm County Council that it is about resources. But just as you have provided in your answer, there has never been so much funding for health care as right now. You should be able to fix that according to the framework, we think. One problem is that SKL has developed some kind of platform that is not used properly. We've decided on the law 19 months ago. At Sahlgrenska in Gothenburg they have come up with their own model for this. It lowers the age limit for women who need donor sperm to 36 years and to 39 years for those who do not need it in order to get in line. I think that's a problem. I still wonder what can be done to speed up the process for single women. I'm a little despondent because it's going too slow. I want all women who are now legally entitled to assisted fertilization to be able to get it in practice. That's not what it looks like now.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-103	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karin Rågsjö, for the interpellation! As you so rightly begin by saying, many of us were happy when this opportunity came in. We can see over the years that as society changes and evolves and as people's attitudes towards how to live their lives and with whom and in what way to start a family evolve, we need to have regulations and laws that are capable of evolving along these lines. This is an area where this becomes clear. Another area that I am passionate about is parental insurance, where we are now slowly taking further steps in the right direction but where resistance is still being met in different places. As a parent, I know that it is an amazing and confusing experience to have the opportunity to become a parent and to have the opportunity to raise a child. I can certainly also understand those who saw this as an incredibly important opportunity and who are now disappointed that they do not have access to the treatment they had hoped for. In view of our common starting points of wanting to provide equal care across the country, it is of course even more problematic when you see that there is this much difference. It is the county councils that own the issue, and my hope must be leaned towards them. They need to solve the problems that exist so that more can be treated. One good thing is that all county councils have now joined SKL's recommendation for a uniform offer of assisted fertilization. This is what they have done, but the various lengths of waiting times also show that political decisions can clearly influence queue times. I am pleased that Karin Rågsjö emphasises that there is often a discussion about resources, but that we can be clear here that resources should reasonably exist. We have great respect for county councils' self-determination when it comes to how they want to prioritise the resources they have. But it is also about the commitments they have actually made. Now that I have put myself even more into the matter, I also see that there is light in the sky as you look out over the country. Skåne is such a light. But they have also actively decided in the county council to provide additional funds, which largely explains the shortened waiting times they have. To what extent other county councils have decided on this, I do not know. As things stand today, the situation of single women also depends on the availability of donated sperm. Today it is the county councils that are responsible for this, as Karin rightly says. As I understand it, there is at SKL a national cooperation forum for tissue establishments, the National Tissue Council. Within this council there is now a special collaboration group for both public and private bodies dealing with germ cells. Within this section, it is reported that work is under way to achieve greater coordination in this area, for example in relation to access to germ cells.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-109	Madam President, I would like This is really a problem, Annika. As you say, we've invested funds. I repeat: For 2018, we have invested 1.6 billion in women's health. 10 billion will come from this year to municipalities and county councils during the budget period and the term of office. In the Budget Bill, the Government proposes, after negotiations with the Left, that contributions to health care should be raised permanently by SEK 5 billion by 2020. So there is no need to wonder about this and think that there is not enough money at all. There are budgets to take off. It is clear that you will be a little surprised when you see Västra Götaland's incredibly long waiting time in four years. I have to mention this again: only 2 women have been treated, and 187 are in line. When the age limit is reduced to 36, many of these women will not receive treatment. The Sahlgrenska University Hospital says you would need 15 million. I think you can shake it up. There are good examples. You can see the Skåne region specifically, which has developed additional resources. It doesn't have to be that much, but it has caused queue times to shrink to about two and a half months. There's a crazy difference compared to four years. The county council where I live, Stockholm County Council, with 170 single women in line for Karolinska is of course not a fantastic hit. Here are the waiting times 13 – 15 months. It can be imagined that this will be the time when two women were called to the end of 2017, and calculated treatment for the first patients is now taking place in the spring of 2018. There will be some sort of lotto in which women participate depending on where they live. Regional inequality in healthcare is a huge problem, but in this area it is really unprecedented. If there is to be any sense in the law, help with assisted fertilization must be provided in a reasonable time. What is being done now means that some of these women do not even come up with publicly funded care to receive treatment for their infertility. You can see this as a game between the county council, SKL and the government. SKL complains that there is too little money; that has been done several times. Sahlgrenska believes that they would need 15 million directed to this group of patients. I am absolutely convinced that they would get it together if they looked over their budget. Certainly it would have been good to have a thorough survey, which SKL or the National Board of Health and Welfare owns, to see the patterns in the country and to develop a more reasonable plan. There is no such thing now. As the Minister says, you see the stars in the sky a little more clearly, but there are not many stars. It seems pretty foggy out there. I still want to see a good survey.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-116	Madam President, I would like I think that we are basically quite unanimous, Karin Rågsjö, about the importance of creating greater equality across the country – of course with respect for the county councils' self-determination based on the resources they have and on how they want to prioritise relative to everyone's population. As far as waiting times are concerned, I understand that from different county councils it has taken time to adapt their activities to the reform. For example, it has taken various years for county councils to decide on SKL's recommendation in this case. In some places, I understand, clinics have been waiting to receive single people before the central decisions have been made. At the same time, however, if the SKL recommendation is to be taken into account, it means that the healthcare guarantee is also applicable to public assisted reproduction. However, if the problem consists of a lack of donated germ cells, the limits of the healthcare guarantee when cells are available, which means that waiting time for single women depends on the availability of donated sperm. This also applies, of course, to couples who need treatment, because this is not just about single people. However, I must again address the issue of resources in this speech and stress that, on the basis of the substantial reinforcements we have made in this area, not least in relation to women's health, with 1.6 billion in the coming year, there should now be an opportunity for county councils to plan their activities in a way and make the necessary decisions to shorten these too long queues. Clearly, a waiting period of four years is a slap in the face for a woman who may have been longing for many years and seen this as her opportunity to become a parent. Of course, this must be respected and understood on an interpersonal level. The legislation is in place, SKL's recommendation is in place and there is a collaboration at SKL level also when it comes to coordinating around, for example, obtaining more donated germ cells. Now, surely, all county councils should have made the necessary decisions regarding the recommendation. I hope now that this year we will really see things happen in this area.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-121	Madam President, I would like We're quite in agreement, Annika. Something has to happen, and we look forward to it. As you say, guidelines on assisted fertilization have been developed. But we know that guidelines are one thing and unfortunately the reality is another. When it comes to informing the public about how to donate sperm and eggs, I still think it would take a small informative campaign or information effort to get the issue loose. The Minister replies that it is the activities themselves and their principals who are best placed to inform about this. I have worked with national information in different ways about alcohol and HIV and so on, and I think that you should do something that becomes effective you should do it together within SKL. I do not think that each county council should produce its own little concoction of information, but it would be very good if these 21 county councils that we have in Sweden could say that they do something together so that it becomes a little more effective. It will also be cheaper if 21 county councils pool their resources and do this. I see it as a kind of exercise in collaboration, purely educational, for the county councils. Wouldn't that be great?
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-123	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Karin Rågsjö, for an urgent interpellation on the importance of not only deciding on different legislations, but also actually ensuring that they have an effect and our responsibility to follow up on it. As we have also said in this interpellation debate, we can see that this has been a process in many county councils since this legislation came into place. In essence, Karin Rågsjö knows that we fully agree that we will need to follow up on this and evaluate it. My entrance was that it is perhaps a little early considering that the county councils have been so different when it comes to how they have made their decisions. But of course it must not take too long either. If we see that this legislation does not have an impact as it was intended, we must, of course, get to grips with it. I would also like to emphasise that the county councils absolutely decide for themselves how to do it, but an enlightening campaign would be an exciting idea, I think. Thank you, Karin Rågsjö, for a good and very important debate!
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-127	Madam President, I would like Jenny Petersson has asked me three questions about stillborn children. Data in the media, for example, have shown that there are different routines of reduced foetal movements in the country, which leads to unequal care and in some cases that women who should have been examined have not been. According to data from the National Board of Health and Welfare regarding stillborn children, Sweden has low figures internationally, but there are countries that have lower figures. The differences reported in the media depend on which statistics have been used when comparing different countries, for example at what pregnancy week the stillborn limit has been. I would like to stress how important it is that the activities that meet pregnant women, in particular the maternity care centres (MVCs), take on board and use the advice and recommendations that the National Board of Health and Welfare developed in 2016 and also follow the development of knowledge in this area. When reduced foetal movements are not adequately addressed and cared for, there may be serious consequences. According to the National Board of Health and Welfare, there are varying routines around reduced foetal movements in the country. The aim of the knowledge support is that all pregnant women who experience reduced foetal movements should be taken care of in the healthcare sector as required by their condition, based on the best available knowledge. Since before, there is also the maternity health care manual that states that if women experience decreased foetal movement, they should be encouraged to seek medical care as soon as possible. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's recommendations from 2016 develop the routines that health care should have in order to better capture cases of decreased foetal movements. According to the recommendations, healthcare should inform all pregnant women during visits to the MVC about the importance of paying attention to reduced foetal movements and contacting the healthcare services in such cases, and that care should investigate the reports without waiting. The National Board of Health and Welfare considers that there are no obvious obstacles, such as organisational limitations or a great need for further training, to implement the recommendations in healthcare today. Because the activities now have a knowledge support from the National Board of Health and Welfare with national recommendations to add the basis for routines and interventions in their contact with pregnant women, more women who feel reduced foetal movements will be caught and controlled. I share the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's assessment that it will contribute to increased equality in health and pregnancy outcomes and that it will lead to a more equal care based on the best available knowledge. Factors related to the death of children at the end of pregnancy include smoking, obesity, diabetes, high blood pressure, age in the woman, overcrowding, alcohol and drugs. Common causes are that the placenta does not provide enough nutrition, or that infections occur. In order to reduce the risk of the foetus dying, it is important to monitor the development of knowledge and to work with preventive work regarding these risk factors. This is done by maternity care centres in accordance with current knowledge support. Finally, I would like to point out that in 2018, the Government will allocate a total of just over SEK 1.6 billion to strengthen maternity care and women's health. Most of these funds will be paid directly to the county councils, and the funds may also be used in maternal health care. The Government has also decided to raise the general state grants to the county councils permanently. In conclusion, I believe that the Government's initiatives and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's knowledge support are important contributions to the county councils' work with improved care and increased patient safety in these cases.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-138	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Annika Strandhäll, for your answer! I can say that we in Sweden have a lot of things that we should be proud of when it comes to maternity care, maternity care and health care in general. At the same time, there are different challenges and regional differences. Swedish maternal care, which was introduced in the middle of the 20th century, has played a major role in reducing the number of children who die before birth. Losing a child is a great tragedy for the parent or parents. It is tragic from many angles and a sadness when a child is not allowed to live his life on this earth. When it comes to statistics, the National Board of Health and Welfare collects figures from the county councils, just as Annika Strandhäll says. However, there is no deeper analysis of this data. Are there regional differences? What's it look like? Perhaps measures need to be taken. Analysing data makes it much easier to see where there were shortcomings and to put in place measures. I can, like Annika Strandhäll, note that the statistics show that, despite the fact that around 400 people are born dead, we have low numbers when it comes to stillbirths; in 2016 it was 416. But if we look at comparable countries, I think we can do a little more to bring down the figures and to understand why children are born dead. I thank the Minister for his reply. It is good that there is now a handbook with recommendations and knowledge support for the activities. But the question is how the activities use the knowledge support. If you had done a deeper analysis or comparison of it you might find that it is used in a very good way in some parts of Sweden or some businesses but less well in others. That is why I asked whether to go further and do a larger survey or take any steps to work more on these issues. However, if I interpret the Minister's reply correctly, I can say that this is not the case.
i-JEemDkpBWazez2GpW2kvmn	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the interpellation, Jenny Petersson! Of course, we should never be completely satisfied, despite the fact that we have had this maternal care in Sweden for quite a few decades, and it has played a major role in reducing the number of children who die before birth. The proportion of stillbirths has largely remained at the same level in Sweden in recent decades. There are about 4 children per 1,000 births. Nor has the occurrence shown any tendency to decrease. If you have such health care as we have in Sweden, you must constantly work with improvement work and take new and further steps to see what further we can do. As Jenny Petersson says, every child we lose – where we could have prevented it in some way – is a great tragedy. The fact that the National Board of Health and Welfare received national knowledge support on site in 2016 is important. Now we must also follow, in dialogue with the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils, how it is implemented within maternity care and ensure that it is really used. Knowledge support from the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare is about giving information about foetal movements to all pregnant women during routine visits to maternal health care no later than week 24. You should also give advice on contacting the care again if there is a renewed experience of reduced foetal movements. It is in several parts a rather strong recommendation. If applied in a similar way in maternal care throughout Sweden, it will certainly both have an effect and create greater security for prospective parents, so that they know what opportunities there are, how to act and where to turn. Jenny Petersson touched on the fact that there may also be regional differences. I am convinced that there are regional differences. I sometimes wonder whether you can even say that if you do not have it black and white, but we know that there are regional differences in all other parts of health care. This depends on how different county councils apply and prioritise. This is the model that we have chosen in Sweden to organise health care. It is therefore important that a national approach is taken on certain issues, including national recommendations. In addition to these national recommendations, we also allocate a very high amount in 2018 to our county councils, to strengthen both maternity care and efforts to promote women's health. In the dialogue that we have had with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council on the agreement that we are now drawing up on maternity care and these resources, we have also indicated that they can also be used for maternal care and to have a coherent care chain for prospective parents – before, during and after childbirth. We know that we have quality challenges there and need to strengthen further. There are also other elements proposed by experts that could have a small impact in the long term. I'll get back to that.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-152	Madam President, I would like Figures show that about 400 children are born dead in Sweden every year. And the number of children who die before birth has, as I said, neither decreased nor increased in the last 25 years, but there are variations years from year to year. Causes of death vary. Many parents never get an explanation of why their children died. That is why I ask whether more needs to be done in this area. If a child dies of sudden infant death, there are investigations – hence my question. I know more people who have highlighted this issue, such as Member of Parliament Annika Eclund from KD, who was the one who raised it in his motion. It is good that the National Board of Health and Welfare has released the new recommendation regarding foetal movements during pregnancy. There is no dividing line between me and Annika Strandhäll in this matter. That's great. However, according to the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, the routines differ in terms of the regional differences in foetal movements. That is why I think it definitely needs to be followed up if you work properly. In terms of information on foetal movements, many parents or mothers testify that it is deficient. I and the Government will be seen in another debate during the day, precisely as regards the overall approach to maternal care, maternity care and post-natal care. You see, there's drain pipes there. Now it has been opened up because money directed to maternity care can be used in maternity care. As I said, we need to ensure the quality of this whole line. This issue is in maternity care. I would like to see the National Board of Health and Welfare at least follow up on how you work with the knowledge support you have received and with the handbook, even if they do not want to do any mapping. I also want them to look at regional differences. Regardless of where you live in Sweden and who you are, you should also in this area get the right information, the right care, the right knowledge and the right support. It should not differ depending on where in Sweden you live. Sweden's pregnant women have the right to feel safe during pregnancy, childbirth and aftercare. I thank the Government for the debate. The Minister has provided detailed answers to what is being done in this area and how it will be dealt with. However, I would like to see follow-up in this area.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-161	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jenny Petersson, for the post! I take with me how important it is to follow up that the recommendations are actually implemented across the country. Despite the fact that there is basically today a high-quality maternity and maternal care system, we know that there are still challenges. Above all, too many young women are worried about pregnancy and childbirth. We need to find ways forward to create greater security and uniformity in care and even better quality across the country. With regard to the national recommendations, it is the National Board of Health and Welfare's assessment that there are no obvious obstacles, such as organisational problems or a great need for further training among staff to implement the recommendations. They can be implemented straight up and down in health care today and should, of course, be used regularly in maternity care. The government will follow this issue closely. It will also be exciting to follow how the additional resources will be used to strengthen maternity care in Sweden. We know that there are experts who claim that there is a further effort to reduce the number of stillborn children in Sweden, for example by working even more systematically and preventively by finding those parents who have children or are pregnant who may be at risk. For example, it may be a question of reducing smoking, which is known to be a risk factor for stillbirth, by making further preventive efforts in this area. Smoking in Sweden is low, except for young women. They still smoke, and it is possible to reduce the number. The government will shortly come back with a tobacco bill and submit it to the Riksdag. Screening is another possibility. Of course it requires both midwives and means. It is not that there is a huge supply of midwives in Sweden today. Like Jenny Petersson, there is another possibility, namely to perform an autopsy on more stillborn children to learn and discover additional risks. But at the same time there is a shortage of pathologists in Sweden. Improving the situation is only possible if we identify risk situations. This requires both staff with the right skills, which are partly lacking today and where efforts need to be made, and to some extent further enhanced resources. At the same time, future parents should not be intimidated. The figures are good in Sweden. But we must be humble because there are additional things that can be done all the time, and that we should have the ambition to do, in a welfare country like Sweden to become even better.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-170	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Annika Strandhäll, for your answer! I mean that in Sweden pregnant women should have the right to feel safe during pregnancy, during childbirth and aftercare. We should not stand here and scare pregnant women around Sweden, but there are women with this knowledge who are worried during pregnancy and childbirth. Unfortunately, there are also women who testify that they have not even received the knowledge and information. That's where it's flawed. If you do not want to carry out an impact assessment or survey of stillborn children in Sweden, or if you believe that adequate measures and preventive measures are taken in relation to stillborn children in Sweden, you should at least follow up that the recommendations in the handbook are used in the operations and maternal care. The business now has knowledge support. We can't take the experience of women lightly. They're worried. M a there are those who do not even know that they should be worried when they feel reduced foetal movements. I hope that work will continue on this issue.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-175	Madam President, I would like It is a balancing process in terms of never causing concern, but at the same time this kind of interpellation debate in which we raise these issues is an opportunity to come out more broadly with the existence of national recommendations, their application, the absence of barriers in maternal health care to apply them and their application across the country. Professional representatives have stated on several occasions, before the recommendations came into place, that a reduction in foetal movements is one of the areas where knowledge support is needed. It should be a priority in both maternal health care and maternity care. Given that the figures have remained still for 25 years in Sweden, and that everything cannot be prevented and that everything cannot be prevented, the ambition should always be to get even better. I will be following this issue closely, and I will be monitoring in particular how the additional funds now allocated to strengthen the quality of maternal care and maternity care are used to really achieve these results – above all, to increase the security of Sweden's parents and future parents. Thank you for a good debate!
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-180	Madam President, I would like Erik Andersson has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to deal with the increased mental illness of women, which is increasingly resulting in sick leave. Let me start with a somewhat broader perspective. The government has high ambitions in terms of health. The government has set a long-term goal, namely that in one generation we will close the avoidable health gaps. Although health in Sweden is generally good, it is not good for everyone. Mental ill-health is a major and growing social problem. The proportion of people experiencing and reporting mental illness has increased since the early 1990s. Mental ill-health is increasing, and the causes lie not least in working life. The research shows that workplace-related interventions shorten sick leave due to mental illness. The government believes in the Swedish model and has therefore offered the parties in the labour market to agree on measures to reduce sick leave at the workplace. The parties have submitted a declaration of intent for each sector. For the government, it is particularly important that measures are taken for a sustainable working life before a sick leave needs to be made up to date. The Swedish Work Environment Authority's regulations on organizational and social work environment, which started in March 2016, represent a major step forward and new opportunities in work environment work. Workload, organisation of working time and discriminatory treatment are three areas that are the focus of the new regulations. During 2017 – 2019, the Swedish Work Environment Authority makes special supervision efforts regarding organizational and social work environment. On 16 November 2017, the Swedish Work Environment Authority has been commissioned to further develop and disseminate the film about the regulation to the relevant actors. Within the framework of the Government's action programme for increased health and reduced sick leave, the Government has identified seven areas where measures need to be taken, one of which is better working environment. The action programme is based on the joint responsibility of the government, the relevant authorities, the social partners and the healthcare sector. It is about prevention, intervention during illness and back to work. Within the framework of the agreement with SKL on a quality-proof and effective sick leave and rehabilitation process, the Government has contributed SEK 500 million per year in 2016 and 2017 for evidence-based treatments of mental illness and pain problems. The measures have started to produce results – the number of new cases of illness is no longer increasing, and the onset of illness due to psychiatric diagnoses is terminated earlier. It is gratifying that even cases of illness due to mental diagnoses have become shorter. On behalf of the Government, the National Board of Health and Welfare has prepared new recommendations on sick leave periods for mental diagnoses. There is now a greater differentiation of sick leave periods depending on the severity and co-morbidity of the disease. There are more diagnoses where the recommendation is a partial sick leave or no sick leave. Mild first time depression is an example of when sick leave is not recommended. As I mentioned, the broad approach of the government has already had an impact on the development of sick leave. Försäkringskassan's forecasts show that there are good prospects of achieving the targets set by the government for the sickness benefit rate for 2020. In 2016, the government adopted a new strategy in the area of mental health that applies for 2016 – 2019. The Government's strategy will stimulate the development of prevention and promotion work in general but also early intervention to those who are not well or at risk of mental illness. Already this year, the Government is allocating over SEK 1 billion for interventions in psychiatry and mental health. The Government makes the assessment that there is a great need to further expand the investment in psychiatry and mental health. The Government has therefore proposed to strengthen the work on mental health by SEK 500 million for 2018 and intends to strengthen the work by SEK 1 billion per year in 2019 and 2020. The expansion of the initiative is being done, among other things, to strengthen first-line care and specialized psychiatry for children and young people. The spring 2017 amending budget added SEK 100 million for this year to strengthen child and youth psychiatry and first-line psychiatry for children and young people in primary care in county councils and regions. The Government proposes in the 2018 Budget Bill to continue this investment in 2018 – 2020. Most of the investment in the area of mental health is allocated to municipalities and county councils through an agreement with SKL. The Government intends to sign an agreement with a similar focus in 2018. The Government's strategy will stimulate the development of prevention and promotion work in general but also early intervention to those who are not well or at risk. We will focus on creating the conditions for finding long-term solutions with joint responsibility in regular structures. Although we have had many good projects, it is above all long-term sustainable structures that are needed. An important part of creating a long-term perspective is also that we can have a good dialogue across block borders and agree on as much as possible.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-192	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Social Affairs for his answer. That is a good answer, a detailed answer. But the Minister for Social Affairs concludes the answer by talking about cross-block dialogue. I would like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs if she has taken any steps to bring about this dialogue. This issue is so important that it requires a long-term perspective. I might add another dimension to the issue when we debate mental illness. Many people feel bad in their workplaces. We have become healthier as people, but many – especially women – feel very bad. About one in five people have been diagnosed with depression at least once in their lives. Of these, one in three is diagnosed more than once in life. 36 percent of the population report anxiety, anxiety, or anxiety. Mental ill-health has thus increased rapidly in Sweden. Since 2014, it is the most common diagnosis among the causes of sick leave for those in the younger middle age. In the 30 - 49 age group, it represents the largest increase. Severe anxiety is more common among 16- to 29-year-olds than in other age groups, but our elderly are also a vulnerable group. In total, 52% of all elderly people experience anxiety, anxiety and anxiety. Of these, 9% experience severe discomfort. It is serious that so many feel so much worse, and it is serious that our young people – especially young women – feel so much worse. According to the research, there is a connection between the diagnosis of mental illness and the work environment. As a party, we believe – I also heard that the Minister for Social Affairs mentioned it in his reply – that preventive measures are important in terms of mental illness in order to prevent possible sick leave. The Moderates want to introduce a prevention guarantee against mental illness, where early intervention at the workplace is particularly important, and create legislation for county councils to offer preventive measures. Landstingen will work on this, and we will invest SEK 500 million in this area. We would also like to impose sanctions on employers with high sick leave. However, we must not forget something that I did not hear the Minister for Social Affairs mentioned in his reply: the prevention of schools. The school has a requirement to work preventively on these issues, but 80% of primary schools do not have such a job. I find that worrying. The sooner you can get to mental illness, the better. It has also been shown, Madam President, that civil servants are on sick leave more than private employees. It is, of course, an understatement to politics. The other day I met some free entrepreneurs in the home service. I asked them how it came about that they did not want to work with the municipality but wanted to run their own home care company. They replied that in many ways it was with governance, management and clarity, the organization, that you have to decide for yourself and that you are closer to the decisions than when you are employed by a public employer. It is important that these companies can continue and be good examples.
i-VX3wm7sqBjoD8LJateCWPC	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Erik Andersson, for the interpellation! Over the years as a minister, I have had the privilege of having many discussions in Parliament with Erik Andersson's colleague Lotta Finstorp, who also represents the Moderates and is very committed to these issues. As pointed out in the interpellation and as I also try to show in my interpellation response, mental illness is our major public health problem in Sweden today. The trend is in the right direction for virtually all ill-health in Sweden except mental ill-health, and this increase occurs in principle in all age groups. One of the most worrying is that we see a sharp increase among very young girls and guys in Sweden. We need to get to grips with this. We already have a situation today where every other sick leave for women and every third sick leave for men is due to mental illness. It has been the most common reason for sick leave in Sweden since 2006, and it is expensive for society on an incredible number of levels. The increase in absenteeism that we have seen in recent years consists almost exclusively, I would say, of a sharp increase in mental illness. At the same time, it can be seen that the resources that we have allocated in the field of health care, in pupil health, to mention another area, and in the area of psychiatry in relation to youth clinics and preventive school work have not reflected the size of this problem. I am very pleased that during these years the government has chosen to spend quite a lot of extra money on this area to strengthen it. Of course, we will also follow up on the effect of this. A major problem that we are seeing today when we look at the increasing queues in child and youth psychiatry, which is actually the specialist care for children and young people in terms of mental illness, is that we have a much too weak first-line care in this area. We have too weak student health and do not catch up on these girls and guys until they feel too bad. They may also feel that they have nowhere to go and therefore end up in the queue of specialist psychiatry, which is perhaps completely the wrong level of care. I think that some of the measures we are now taking are moving in the right direction. As important as prevention in school, preventive work is linked to working life. I think Erik Andersson's proposal for a prevention guarantee for mental illness sounds very interesting. As Erik Andersson points out, we have, and have had for a long time, a clear picture of where we have the biggest problems in the Swedish labour market. It is in publicly funded activities, which are largely dominated by women. There you have unclear governance, large workplaces, many subordinate employees and often a lack of experience of participation in or control over their daily work. We have a lot more to do here, and I'm happy to listen.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-209	Madam President, I would like As the Minister for Social Affairs says, you see many times, if not always, if you look at the statistics that it is in the public sector the high sickness rates exist. I have travelled around Sweden and visited municipalities, and in this country it is not so easy to find some municipalities or county councils that are not social democraticly governed. I often talk to representatives and staff there. So it is the Social Democrats who are in charge, and it is a political understatement that it is public activities that stand out in terms of sick leave and mental illness. Unfortunately, all county councils are governed except for one which I know by Social Democrats. There is also the question of the care queues, which the Minister raised – people need to be helped on time. The healthcare queues have become longer and longer during your reign. A partial explanation may be that the queue billion was removed. Furthermore, I also see this as a gender equality issue because women are more often on sick leave than men are on sick leave for mental illness. The healthcare queues are growing throughout the country, and it is usually women who work in public health care. That is why we in the Moderates believe it is important that these women should be able to choose their employer. It would be wrong if they had only one employer to choose from in the area of free well-being, given that public employers are usually worse and more unclear in terms of leadership, which ultimately contributes to ill-health. Unfortunately, Madam President, the party of the Minister for Social Affairs, together with the Left Party, wants to prevent free welfare in the country with Reepalus's new investigation. In principle, this means a trade ban in the sector. There is talk of operational capital, and many of these activities have no operational capital. Then you don't make a profit without a loss and go bankrupt. So your policy affects women in welfare because the majority of those who run businesses in welfare are women. You say that you are a feminist government, but this policy unfortunately has the opposite effect in practice. You were opposed to the job tax deductions introduced by the Alliance Alliance, which, for example, gave a nurse an additional monthly salary per year. Economic freedom is also freedom, and this is therefore an issue of equality. It is strange, Madam President, that a health worker like a nurse should have to pay government taxes at all. You also want to ban free businesses in welfare, and this affects women in particular. Finally, you are also doubtful about domestic services. So I think, Madam President, that the feminist government is unfortunately delivering anything but feminist politics in practice.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-215	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Erik Andersson! I think it's a bit of a pity that you let go of the issue of mental illness, where we might have been able to discuss ourselves up to something that really could have played a role. Instead, it became more political rhetoric. I think it's important to say a few things. In Municipality and County Council Sweden it is not the case that the sickness rates differ significantly depending on whether the steering is red, green or blue, but it looks basically the same throughout the country and in all county councils. Nor can it be said in general that it always looks like this in all the activities that politics governs. You can draw a fairly clear line between women's and men's dominated activities in a municipality. The male-dominated activity in the municipality has sickness rates and sick leave that are in parity with the Swedish labour market in general, and in the elderly care they have about twice as high a sick absence. What was striking and that I had to deal with as Minister of Social Security in autumn 2014 was an 80 percent increase in sickness rates in Sweden during the years when Ulf Kristersson was Minister of Social Security. Women accounted for the largest proportion of this increase, both in private and public welfare. Private welfare also has significantly higher health rates than the rest of the labour market. This is partly related to the way in which women's dominated activities are organised and paid. Basically, it is, as Erik Andersson says, a feminist question to work with this and support the women who carry Swedish welfare on their shoulders. Nor, Erik Andersson, is it possible to improve this situation by reducing taxes so that these activities have even less resources to move around with. In addition to the fact that sickness rates increased by 80 per cent during the years when Ulf Kristersson was Minister of Social Security – an increase that women accounted for most of the time – it was women in health and social care who peaked the statistics due to stress, anxiety and depression. A queue billion, which will provide incentives to run even faster in these activities, does not help to reduce stress. The challenges posed by a rapidly ageing population and a generational shift among health professionals across Sweden are not passed by by by queue billions of people or by taxes. Instead, it is about investing in welfare and doing what the government has done: increasing the number of training places and getting more nurses, specialist nurses, midwives nurses and doctors. This year we are expanding medical school. It is about being able to hire more colleagues and fill the empty spaces in order to give more high quality time to the users, Erik Andersson. That is how we deal with these problems: by ensuring that we have a care that is able to handle the increased mental illness. This is not solved by a job tax deduction, but by actually investing in welfare and giving those who work there the right conditions.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-222	Madam President, I would like I know a lot of nurses. One of my best friends works in health care. He's an ambulance driver at half-time. He works in regular medical care for the rest of the time. What he is talking about is not what the Minister of Social Affairs is talking about. Of course he would like to have more hands that helped at the department, and if the county councils get an extra amount of money, we can hire more hands. But what he's talking about is that there are very few nurses, especially specialist nurses, who feel that it's worth working extra, because they don't get much left in their wallets. More than half disappear. Then they choose to do something else instead. That is the reality, Madam President, not that we want to reduce taxes in order to reduce welfare. Rather, it is the opposite: when the alliance government reduced taxes, welfare was added to 100 billion more because people worked more. There were more hours worked. It was more profitable to work. The rhetoric of the Minister for Social Affairs may be true in the government meeting, but it is not true when I meet my friend who is a nurse or when I meet, for example, home help companies in Norrland, as I did yesterday. I do not recognize the reality described by the Minister of Social Affairs. She is happy to come with me out in Sweden sometime, and I will show you how it looks.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-226	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Erik Andersson! I haven't been a politician my whole life. I did not become active in party politics until autumn 2014. I have worked my whole life in welfare and also represented the professions that work in welfare, at both local and regional level, and also as the president of one of the major associations in welfare. I am therefore very familiar with the conditions for employees in the welfare sector. I can guarantee you that, Erik Andersson. I don't think I need you as a guide to see the reality out there. It must be noted, however, that after your years in power and following the priorities that you chose to do, we in Sweden today have a lack of well-being. We have a situation where many of the welfare workers are kneeling. You can see that we have holes in the welfare that we need to raise funds to cover. We need to ensure that welfare workers have a better chance of feeling satisfied with their day when they come home in the evening and that they have a work situation that allows them to sit down for a while during the day. This cannot be resolved by tax cuts. We also have a population in Sweden that is ageing enormously fast. Life expectancy increases by three and a half hours per day. We know that in the coming years there will be a great weight on Swedish welfare activities. To think that in that situation we should not have to invest in welfare is to be naive. To think that we are going to solve this problem by lowering taxes is to fool ourselves. Politics is about prioritising. We're going to have to do that here too. The difference is between wanting to invest in our welfare challenges or reducing taxes for those who already have. Thank you for this debate.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-231	Madam President, I would like Jenny Petersson has asked me: Yes, I am very familiar with the challenges facing midwives' strained work situation. Most county councils report difficulties in recruiting or retaining midwives in maternity care. This is one of the reasons for the government's commitment to maternal and maternity care and women's health in general. I have also discussed the challenges of maternity care with county politicians, senior officials, health workers and representatives of civil society actors during the past year and have taken note of their descriptions of the situation in maternity care. As is well known, the county council in Sweden is responsible for most of the health care, including maternity care. Nevertheless, the government has seen the need for national efforts to meet the challenges and problems that exist in this part of the care. In particular, the government has expanded midwifery education and provided incentives in a special effort to strengthen maternity care and women's health. In order to strengthen maternity care and women's health in general and thereby contribute to achieving more equal care and health in the population, the Government has since 2015 implemented a multi-annual initiative on maternity care and women's health. The government's assessment was that, in the light of the reported strained staff situation, the availability of maternity care, the lack of continuity of the care chain before, during and after pregnancy and the deficiencies in post-care of women receiving birth injuries must be addressed. The investment was strengthened in the 2017 spring change budget and further in the 2018 budget proposal. Overall, the Government will invest SEK 1.6 billion in 2018 for the purpose and calculates for 2019 – 2022 to allocate SEK 1 billion annually. The Government's previous efforts to expand midwifery education are equivalent to 250 entry points. A prerequisite for the implementation of midwifery training is the availability of places for the operational part of the training. The agreements between the state and Sweden's Municipalities and County Council therefore highlight that an important effort is to make it easier for midwives students to do their internship. By using funds to employ staff, the government generally contributes to the county councils' ability to meet their skills needs in maternity and maternity care. In their reports, Landstingen has indicated that they have employed both midwives and other staff needed to cover the total need for competence. The Government's initiative can help to strengthen the county councils, but the responsibility as an employer and decision-maker for how healthcare is organised has the county councils. The issue of skills provision is also raised in the two-year agreement on providing support for better use of resources in healthcare, the so-called professional billion. As part of the initiative, SEK 300 million is also earmarked to provide specialist training for nurses, which may also include training for midwives. As part of creating better opportunities for assessments of health care competence needs, in July 2016 the Government commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare and the University Chancellor's Office to jointly analyse and propose how collaboration arenas at national and regional level between actors responsible for the provision of skills in healthcare can be developed in the long term. The background to the mission is that both the government and several government investigations and the most important actors in healthcare have found that increased collaboration is needed to secure the supply of skills in healthcare. This is particularly true between health care and education. In the mission, the most relevant authorities are tasked with developing proposals on how this can be done in the long term. In the summer of 2017, the Government appointed the inquiry into specialist nursing training and certain other health care training courses. The commission of the investigation includes analysing and assessing whether there is a need for a changed degree description for midwife's degree and, if necessary, proposing such a degree. The healthcare chain is in focus for SKL's work within the framework of the agreement between SKL and the Government. In mid-February, SKL will publish the results of its genomics of how the care chains for mothers, childbirth and aftercare look and function in Sweden. I look forward to taking note of their work and will assess the need for further action on the basis of those results. In April 2017, the National Board of Health and Welfare presented its report on post-natal care and assessed in it that county councils need to review this and their post-natal care organisation to the woman after giving birth. It is, of course, an important basis for the government in assessing the need for action in this area. In conclusion, the government is very active and committed to women's health in general and in maternity care in particular.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-242	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Annika Strandhäll, for your answer! Before entering the debate, I should say that we Moderates are also investing in maternity care. We have seen that the link between maternity care, maternity care and aftercare is inadequate and that the current care chain, with its various parts, is not linked in a way that is satisfactory or necessary. The Moderates invest SEK 1 billion in maternity care per year from 2018. As I said, it is about strengthening the care chain – maternal care, maternity care and aftercare – and improving the working conditions of the country's midwives. This means that the investment will be SEK 3 billion over the next three years. We have also invested in training places. We believe that the number of training places should be increased in the future. Being a parent and starting a family should be a happy and positive part of life. No one should have to feel insecure or insecure prior to the encounter with maternal care or maternity care. We have a fantastic health care in Sweden, but in some parts it is deficient. Unfortunately, many parents are concerned. The Swedish maternity care system is perceived in some parts as having gradually become insecure. You can look at the statistics. Retirement needs to be re-inscribed as a matter of urgency. The proportion of birth defects is increasing. Some children feel worse after giving birth. According to the OECD, Sweden is well above the average for birth injuries. There are major regional differences. In Halland, from which I come, 0.6% of mothers are re-entered acutely. In Västernorrland the figure is 3.3 per cent. During 2010 – 2014 it was five times as common that mothers in Jämtland suffered birth injuries. There it was 3.5 percent. In Västernorrland it was 0.7 per cent. So we can see that there are major regional differences. SKL does a review, but the connection between maternal care, maternity care and aftercare has not been investigated for 70 years. Today's healthcare chain, as I said, is not linked in the way that many consider necessary. The treatment of women and families, for that matter, is inadequate. There are also shortcomings in terms of participation and freedom of choice. As I said, it is good that Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils have taken the initiative to analyse the connection between maternity care, maternity care and aftercare. But I do not think that is enough. More needs to be done. Annika Strandhäll says that they are now waiting for that investigation. Yes, we will have to wait for it, but I think that the state should also do something in this area. The state should see for itself what needs to be done when it comes to maternal care, maternity care and post-natal care, so that this is connected. My specific question is: is something being done now to make this better connected?
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-249	Madam President, I would like We really need to take the problems of childbirth seriously. At the same time, I think it is important that there is not too much black painting. Swedish maternity care is the world leader in low mortality for mothers and children. However, that is the most important thing: that mothers survive their birth and that their children survive. But, of course, we're not going to settle down. Of course, mortality can begin to increase if we do not take the problems seriously. And we have a lot more ambition than surviving your birth. Both mother and child should go as free as possible from childbirth. And both the time before delivery and the time after delivery should be as good as possible for the whole family. The government has made huge efforts. The government has indeed prioritised health care in general and not least maternity care and women's health. There are huge investments that have been made – this despite the fact that it is the county councils' main mission. I think it is very good that the government is making these efforts. It will be a help to county councils where there are problems, but you also point out a direction for county councils: You have to solve this! The government can't do everything. The county councils have to do their part. I think county councils that are underfunded need to think about it. In fact, there may be a need for tax increases in some places, not least in Skåne, from which I come. Where we have the lowest county tax in Sweden, but we have huge needs and deficits in healthcare. It's a strange situation there. It is we Social Democrats who run together with the Green Party. Unfortunately, however, our budget was voted down by the bourgeois together with the Swedish Democrats. Despite this, Skåne has managed to increase the total number of employees in health care, and they invest a great deal in maternity care. But these are tough challenges, especially in places where there are very many who give birth. Then you have to face it. It's a tough work situation for the staff. Of course, urgent solutions must be found. But in the long term, the most important thing is that it should be perceived as attractive, for example, to become a midwife. It's a bit the same as with the teacher crisis. When you have talked for a long time about problems in one area, there is a risk that it will be difficult to recruit staff and that it will be difficult to keep those who work there. At the same time, being a midwife is a great job when the new life comes. It is one of the most important things in society: to ensure that we take care of the newborns and the mothers who give birth and the entire families. I believe, therefore, that we have every opportunity. The government has now also invested in midwifery education in order for us to have more midwives. But it is also about the possibility for nurses to further train themselves to midwives. So there is every possibility. But we have to work on this all the time, because it doesn't work out on its own. We can see some positive signs despite the fact that it is perceived as a crisis in many places. It's interesting to look at the birth injuries. Although there are large differences between different county councils, a downward trend can be seen from 2014 to 2017. That is a clear reduction. So it's going in the right direction. But, of course, we're going to continue along that path. I think it's about resources and that midwives shouldn't have too many births at once. But it is also about spreading knowledge about how to prevent and treat birth injuries.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-256	Madam President, I would like This is indeed a very important area. Jenny Petersson writes in her interpellation that it is 70 years since this care chain was last investigated. It says something about how one has prioritised the perhaps most important planned emergency care we have in Sweden. It is interesting to consider how this chain of care has not been reviewed in 70 years. I believe that there are many of us who can be self-critical about this and how women's health is given priority. Just as Hillevi Larsson says, don't overpaint. We have a maternity care in Sweden that in an international comparison holds a high class. At the same time, it is as Jenny Petersson says: We have had far too high a level when it comes to birth injuries. We also know that the groups working in maternity care – midwives, nurses and obstetricians – have a very strained situation, and that is why, Jenny Petersson, the government chose to make a clear, multi-annual effort on maternity care and women's health as early as 2015. We will now both follow up and scale up in the coming years. We now see that there is a clear economic space and that there is a need. This needs to be done. In a country like Sweden, no woman or prospective parent should have to worry about giving birth. As little as we should have a situation for midwives who, when they step on their passport, do not know if they will have the conditions to do what they need to do in the very best way. Precisely in situations when children are born, we know how quickly it can go from a perfectly normal birth to an acute stage where completely different interventions are needed, and a parent needs to feel that there is someone present who can monitor this. I had given birth to two children myself, and this summer I also had the privilege of joining a midwife during an entire session. I was even there when little Selma was born. The feeling you get when you sit on the other side of a delivery room and see how a midwife at a stage constantly makes new, active decisions to ensure that the child can be delivered as safely as possible, with the least possible damage to the future mother, makes you understand the importance of ensuring that you have a birth care that is at the top of your knowledge and also when it comes to having enough staff. We started to expand, among other things, midwives training in 2015. A bottleneck for us today, which I would also like to take the opportunity to talk about in this interpellation debate, is the lack of supervisors. Although we now have new midwives coming out, the situation in some parts of County Council Sweden is so strained that you can't find supervisors for the new midwives. This is, of course, an unacceptable situation that we need to do everything we can to support. As far as the care chain is concerned, I think it is wise to wait for SKL's assessment so that we get a good picture and can make further decisions to strengthen the entire process.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-264	Madam President, I would like As I said, Annika Strandhäll and I agree that the picture looks very different in Sweden. Unfortunately, that is not acceptable. We Moderates believe that the whole chain of maternal care, maternity care and aftercare is inadequate and that efforts need to be made. Annika Strandhäll often says that they have invested in maternity care. It is definitely a bet that is needed, but that does not mean that you invest in the whole chain. Now changes have been made so that the resources can also be used for maternal care, but this is exactly what my question is about: investing in maternity care but that the care chain is inadequate. It is not at all a question of foetal movements and stillborn children, which we spoke about in the previous debate and which concern maternal care. We see that mental illness among mothers is increasing, but the investments made are not related to aftercare. The whole chain must be reviewed and linked, but there are shortcomings here too. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has made a survey of the health care after childbirth and clearly signals that it is inadequate and that changes in care and aftercare are needed, as is already known. I also look forward to SKL's investigation and analysis of how it looks throughout the care chain. Even if the picture looks different, I would never black-paint and look this up and say, for example, that you would have to go to Denmark to have children. As I said, I would rather have a calm debate here to bring about changes and ensure that there is an improvement in maternity care, maternity care and aftercare for our women in Sweden. We've talked about maternity care and maternity care before. When it comes to aftercare, linked to Erik Andersson's interpellation about mental illness, we also see that the mental illness that affects women after childbirth has increased. If there is no connection between childbirth and post-natal care or the BVC, many women end up between the chairs, and this affects the children, the family and the whole. We can see that many county councils are not working on this issue. So there are clear shortcomings in this area and, as I said, I look forward to the government taking this very seriously and strengthening the care chain between maternal care, maternity care and aftercare, because it is definitely needed. As regards what the government and the Swedish parliament can do, I would like to see the patient law on maternal care, maternity care and aftercare strengthened. This is something that could already be worked on and put forward proposals on behalf of Parliament. Unfortunately, however, there is a lack of ambition.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-271	Madam President, I would like It is important not to black out, but at the same time it is of course important not to darken the problems, otherwise we cannot do anything about them. One should also work more comparative between the county councils, because although the county councils are independent, it is strange that there can be such large differences between different county councils. Serious stretch marks and birth defects in mothers have dropped from 3.6 to 2.7 per cent overall from 2014 to 2017, and this is a clear, positive development that must continue. At the same time you can see some who stand out with a higher proportion of birth injuries, and we have some care units where it is down to 1 percent serious birth injuries in the mothers. I therefore believe that there is potential to learn from each other and from positive examples where it works. Some of them are, of course, a resource issue, which is that there should be enough midwives and other staff and that you organise the work well, but it is also about spreading knowledge. When it comes to preventing injuries, there are quite simple methods to do so, but it is important that you have knowledge and that you get down the stress level so that you feel that you are dealing with the situation during a birth. It is also necessary to ensure that women do not go home with a birth injury. For it has been a problem that you go home and do not know that you are injured. Then it may take several years before you get help, and it is not always helpful either, but it is about preventing and treating the damage as quickly as possible. The same goes for the children, of course. It is important to carefully observe the children both during childbirth and after childbirth so that no sick children are sent home. The government is working very clearly on this ambition, and it must continue. The county councils must also assume their responsibilities.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-278	Madam President, I would like I am going to make a speech here which nevertheless clearly shows the differences between us, because it is not really like Jenny Petersson says that the government has not made any efforts. By the time we took office in autumn 2014, however, there had been no special efforts on maternity care by the previous government, but we had a rather neglected maternity care. Already in 2015, at our first opportunity, we invested SEK 200 million even though we sat with a rather tough deficit that we took over. In 2016, we invested SEK 400 million from the government. In 2017, we invested 700 million. In 2018, we are now investing SEK 1.6 billion. In 2019 we have budgeted 1.4 billion for maternity and maternity care. By 2020 – 2022, we have reserved an additional budget space of 1 billion annually specifically for maternity care. But it is not just for maternity care, but in our efforts we have touched on the whole area of women's health. For example, in these years, in addition to efforts to extend midwives' training and to provide additional resources, efforts have been made on post-care. We already see that we also have results in the county councils that have worked in a strategic way with this. We have figures on how much of the resources have been used to employ more people in maternity care. We will be able to show the figure by figure of how we have worked during this term to strengthen Swedish maternity care. What we are going to do about SKL's survey in February is not to start anything, but to continue a work that has been going on since 2015 by the government. We will address the continued challenges with the entire healthcare chain, based on the survey that SKL is doing. We will continue to invest in the staff conditions and conditions, and we will continue to invest in getting out more midwives, so that we can cope with the condition of 1,300 new midwives by 2025. One cannot queue billions of dollars or tax relief from these challenges, but it is about making clear, long-term investments in operations and staff, supporting county councils in developing work and creating greater equivalence in childbirth care across the country. And that is exactly what the government has done during this term of office. I very much sympathise with the fact that Jenny Petersson also thinks this is an important area and that even the Moderates in the coming years are prepared to set aside resources to invest in maternity care, because that is needed. I think it is important to keep your tongue right in the mouth and actually listen to the answer I gave at the beginning of the interpellation debate. There I just described the efforts made by the government during its term of office and that we are actually seeing results. But we are also humbled by the fact that more needs to be done in this area of welfare, just as we see that we have challenges in other welfare areas in which we are also prepared to invest. This is an incredibly important debate. I believe that for the midwives, doctors and other staff who work in Swedish maternity care, it is an important message, both from us and in this case also from Jenny Petersson, that we see them, that we see the needs of future parents and are prepared to make investments. The government will continue its work.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-287	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Annika Strandhäll! I think you should check the Minutes, because I said that you have not made any efforts or made any proposals to Parliament's table in terms of strengthening the healthcare chain and seeing the whole picture. Annika Strandhäll talked about maternity care several times in her post. But I'm talking about the whole chain – maternity care, maternity care and aftercare – and how it needs to be connected much better than it does today. My question is this: if we take this issue very seriously, what concrete measures does the government intend to take to strengthen this chain? What measures will be taken to ensure a more patient-centred, patient-safe, accessible and equal care for all patients, regardless of residential area, throughout the care chain – maternal care, maternity care and aftercare? What concrete proposals are they intended to implement or have been put forward? I haven't seen that. As I said, this is a very important issue to prioritise. We have now talked a lot about what we are doing in the healthcare chain. I myself have not mentioned much about the well-educated midwives. They are needed, and we definitely need more. There the number of training places needs to be increased. I know the government has done so, but just as Annika Strandhäll says, the problem is that there is a shortage of supervisors today. This is a major challenge that we need to take very seriously. As I said, we need to strengthen the care chain between maternity care, maternity care and aftercare. What concrete measures has the government taken?
i-13WNUNaf6FA3eALgJCB9Pa	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jenny Petersson, for your commitment to the issue! The efforts made by the government since 2015, including both maternity care and women's health, have also included the possibility for county councils to use the resources for, for example, the care chain in maternity care. In many county councils, for example, very ambitious post-natal work has been done and the number of birth injuries among women has been reduced. We already have figures on it and can see the difference, which is gratifying. I look forward to the additional investment of 1.6 billion, which the government is making during this year, bringing with it that the mapping that SKL has now made after a few years of our efforts will show us even more clearly how to allocate the resources that the government allocates during this year and the coming years, so that it lands right based on that map. Throughout the autumn, we have sat together with the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils and discussed and turned around what parts should be included in the agreement for 2018 regarding the Government's commitment to maternity care. Which parts do we feel that we have made the batch go on? What are the parts that are standing again? As I see it and as Jenny Petersson rightly points out, further work is needed to strengthen the care chain to increase security among parents but also to strengthen neonatal care, for example. It is something that has not been included before as an opportunity but which is now included for 2018 and where we also see that there are shortcomings. I think it will be about constantly developing the work. Once again, I would like to thank Jenny Petersson for an urgent and good debate.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-298	Madam President, I would like Helena Bouveng has asked the Minister for Children, the Elderly and Gender Equality if she shares the Swedish Welfare Investigation's conclusion on gender equality. Erik Andersson has asked the Minister for Children, the Elderly and Gender Equality what measures she intends to take in her area of responsibility to ensure that a profit ban does not affect equality in the labour market between women and men. The questions have been handed over to me. I will answer both questions together. The Government intends to ensure that public funding is used for precisely the activities for which it is intended and in such a way as to benefit children, pupils and users. A prerequisite for real equality between men and women is the proper functioning of publicly funded welfare. Therefore, the government has recently submitted a proposal to the Legislative Council to introduce a permit to receive public funds in selected welfare sectors. The Government's proposal means that a larger proportion of the tax resources allocated to welfare will be used for the intended activities. The proposal is therefore expected to benefit women as consumers of welfare services. Women use welfare services more than men, and women make up a larger proportion of the employed in welfare. The fact that a larger proportion of public funding goes to the activities for which it is intended is also positive for the employees of welfare companies. Among the stakeholders covered by the proposal, women make up three quarters of the workforce. In recent years, reports on staff density and salaries in schools and care show that private providers and independent schools generally have lower staff density and offer lower wages. Reinvesting the bulk of any surplus from public funds in the business creates the conditions for developing the quality of operations and improving the conditions for those working in welfare. The surplus can be used to increase staff density, increase continuity and improve salaries and other conditions for employees rather than disappear into other ways, such as dividends to owners. The Government's proposal will primarily affect the owners of welfare companies. We know that women run companies in welfare sectors on a comparatively large scale, but there are no studies on how the profits from publicly funded welfare activities are distributed between women and men. However, women tend to run businesses of a smaller size than men do. Many of the owners of the major welfare companies are men. However, since the owners of private welfare companies are, among other things, venture capital companies and funds, which in some cases are based abroad, there is no complete transparency as to how profits and ownership are ultimately distributed between women and men. The government has made it clear that individual actors will continue to be part of the welfare system. By ensuring good financing and reducing the presence of short-term profit interests in private welfare, the Government estimates that the risk of future business closures is reduced. As a result, predictability in the sector can increase – something that benefits owners, employees and users regardless of whether they are women or men.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-307	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister of Civil Affairs, who last Friday became the best dressed man of the year. On Friday, the Minister of Civil Affairs also held a press conference with Jonas Sjöstedt, and we who live in this world know that you have press conferences on Fridays about things you don't think are great fun. This interpellation I had made to Minister for Gender Equality Åsa Regnér, and I find it difficult to understand why the Minister for Gender Equality does not respond to it. I am well aware that Ardalan Shekarabi is responsible for the investigation, but the consequences of the proposals based on the gender equality inquiry should be on the table of the Minister for Gender Equality. I can only wonder if the Prime Minister has no confidence in the competence of Minister for Gender Equality, Åsa Regnér, and therefore leaves this to a male colleague. Or can it be the case that the Minister for Gender Equality himself has difficulty answering the question of how the findings of the inquiry on gender equality come to light in no reason to believe that the proposals will have any negative impact on equality between women and men? Madam President, I would like Reality speaks clearly, and I, like many others, believe that the investigation's proposal is a blow to both women's entrepreneurship and women's ability to choose between alternative work donors in the women's dominating the health and social care sector. In practice, the investigation's proposals result in a profit ban and a large number of healthcare companies are at risk of going bankrupt. A majority of the companies that would be affected are run by women, since women are the main business leaders in health care companies. According to Statistics Sweden's statistics, nearly 7,000 women run healthcare companies. Here 55 percent of corporate leaders are women. The proportion of enterprises run by women is the highest in elderly care sectors. Seventy-one per cent of elderly care companies have a woman as a business manager. The distribution of operational power in the healthcare companies, which I believe the Minister was involved in, is equal in both large and small healthcare companies. Of the more than 12 700 health care companies reported by SCB in their statistics, most are small. Among health care companies with fewer than ten employees, 56% have a woman as a business manager. Only 72 health care companies have 250 employees or more. Of these large companies, 47 per cent are run by women. In other words, almost as many of the largest companies are led by a woman as by a man. I wonder in which other sectors we can see such statistics. Will it not even be ridiculous for the Minister of Civil Affairs, who claims to belong to a feminist government and whose views I respect on many occasions, that the investigator believes that there is no reason to believe that the proposals will have a negative impact on equality between men and women?
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-315	Madam President, I would like It is distressing to see how Social Democracy frustrates the Left Party when it comes to banning freedom of choice in welfare. The Left Party has roots in Communism. Today's feminist government is doing everything to prevent women from succeeding in their entrepreneurship. The profit ban proposed by the Social Democrats and the Left Party will hit free actors in welfare, and ultimately it is the users who are affected. Mr President, I would like to I have some questions about the answer I received from the Secretary of State. In the answer, the Minister for Civil Affairs says that a prerequisite for real equality between men and women is the proper functioning of publicly funded welfare. I share this view. But how does the Minister of Civil Affairs think it will work well if, in principle, women's entrepreneurship is banned in free welfare and the good examples of free welfare are banned? The answer also states that the proposal is expected to benefit women as consumers of welfare services. In which way, I want to know. It also states that among the players covered by the proposal, women make up three quarters of the workforce and that the surplus can be used to increase staff density, increase continuity and improve wages and so on. Let me point out that there are companies in the welfare sector that are run by free operators that have a very high degree of continuity. It is also said that wages can be improved by banning profits in welfare and that the surplus can be used for more employees rather than for dividends to shareholders. Yes, there are some companies that have made profits, but there are also companies in the free welfare that have never made a dividend but have reinvested the money in the business. Many owners of large companies in welfare are men. Yes, there are men who are owners, but the vast majority of owners are women. Some of the owners are AMF Pension and LO. Perhaps the most remarkable part of the answer is that the government has made it clear that individual actors will continue to be part of the welfare system. How? If you have no operational capital, you can't make any profit, and if you don't make a profit, you lose and go bankrupt. Madam President, I would like I would like the Minister of Civil Affairs to answer these questions, and he can think of his answers for the rest of my speech. The government's proposal means that the staff of free welfare, that is, teachers, nurses and nurses, will again have only one employer, the public. Unfortunately, it has been shown that municipalities and county councils have not been the best employers when compared to private operators in the same industry. The driving force for running a private home care company is precisely to avoid the heavy municipal bureaucracy and to develop exciting ideas in the area. Recently I was in Norrland and met a home care company in the free well-being. There were better figures in terms of freshness, and the employees were much happier precisely because they did not have 14 different managers over them.
i-4XiipP7nJVhNaGtWQEa513	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Helena Bouveng and Erik Andersson, for questions n a and not least for their commitment to gender equality issues! I am pleased that a party with conservative roots is engaged in the feminist struggle. This creates the conditions for cross-block cooperation and for us to continue to work to reduce the gaps between men and women in our society. It is important that the Moderates are also involved in that struggle. It is a good news that there is a commitment to these issues in the party that has traditionally represented the conservative values in this House. The issue of profits in welfare and school has been discussed for a long time. In some cases there is a focus on the tactical issues that politicians and sometimes even political journalists are obsessed with. This is sometimes also evident in this House, not least in Erik Andersson's comments on the Left Party. I would like to remind Erik Andersson that it was a demand from the Moderate Coalition Party for the Left Party to be part of the government's budget cooperation. His party, the Moderate Coalition Party, has repeatedly received criticism from bourgeois debaters because it is probably the only right-wing party in Europe that demands influence for a left-wing party in parliament. This should be the subject of a self-critical discussion, if Erik Andersson now concludes that the influence of the Left Party is harmful. Then perhaps you should see for yourself how the party you represent views the parliamentary game. Often it is the game theoretical discussion that is the focus, but there is also a reality. I would like to call on Erik Andersson and Helena Bouveng to go over to Norway, where the sister party Høyre now holds the prime minister's post. I would also like to call on my friends here to ask the representatives of Høyre why they choose not to let commercial interests in the Norwegian school and not to allow profit withdrawals from the free school and whether it is the case that the Norwegian parents and children do not have freedom of choice because there are restrictions to withdraw funds from the Norwegian school. That's a reasonable question to ask. I would also like to hear the moderate representatives ask Høyre whether the lack of profit interests in the Norwegian school creates problems with gender equality in Norway. Maybe it's a little cold in Norway, and maybe you want to go south in these months. Then you can visit the sister party in Denmark, and then you can go on to the sister party in Germany and then cross the canal to the British islands and talk to the sister party in the UK. Then you can ask the question: How is it that you do not let the commercial actors into school in any other country than Sweden? Is it because we are so smart here and have found a solution that no one else has found? Or is it ideological lock-ups that make us up arguments for maintaining a system whereby tax money leaks from the business? Madam President, I would like I have said it many times here, but I say it again: the money we are discussing is not Erik Andersson's, Helena Bouvengs or my money, but it is taxpayers' money. It is money that we take in by force from hardworking people to finance the common welfare and school. We have an obligation as a state to ensure that every crown is used for what it is intended for. What private companies want to do with their private capital is a completely different matter concerning the free market. Now we are not talking about the free market; we are talking about the public sector, which is financed from tax.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-333	Madam President, I would like I note that the Minister for Civil Affairs' speech was not so much about gender equality but more about the concern that profits would be collected. I don't think Fredrika Bremer was a very strong socialist voice, but I have to say that I admire her very much and am humbled by what she and Alva Myrdal have done for us women today. Speaking of visits, it was the Social Democrats' own High School Minister, who was previously responsible for the school in a completely different way, who called the English School and asked what we could do with Swedish school. English School is one of the most successful knowledge-based free schools we have. Madam President, I would like We're gonna talk about gender equality. There are different perspectives here. One is the possibility that healthcare entrepreneurship has opened up a large number of women with previous care experience from the public sector to start and run businesses. Entrepreneurship has given them greater freedom and self-determination in their working lives, not least by enabling them to further develop their ideas, which may not always be possible in the public sphere. You should never say never, but I think you feel that it's quite difficult. Another is the importance of the proposals for the employees in health care. The emergence of more private health care providers has meant that women, mostly, but also men with health care training, have made more employers choose from. The reforms of freedom of choice, Madam President, have not only created quality competition for private and public activities for the benefit of patients, users and pupils, but also contributed to increased competition on the employers' side of the labour market. If you don't like your workplace, you now have the opportunity to opt out of that place of work and go to another employer. We can also see in the wage statistics that wage developments have changed in these women-dominated sectors – according to the Health Association. This is quite natural and self-evident when there is more than one employer to negotiate with. In a previous debate that my colleague had on mental illness, the Minister of Social Affairs acknowledged that the main problem is with mental illness among women in the public sector. If the study's proposals are implemented, this will mean that many of the alternative employers need to close down. Does the Minister of Civil Affairs think that a return to a monopoly situation will benefit the women-dominated healthcare sector, once again having only one employer to be referred to? In what way does the Minister of Civil Affairs think that this strengthens the assistant nurse's opportunities for good work opportunities and positive development and to feel a little better at her workplace?
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-343	Madam President, I would like I think it was a distressing answer I received from the Secretary of State. First of all, I did not get an answer to a single question that I asked, but perhaps that is how it works in the political debates of the Social Democracy– what do I know? At least I am used to getting answers when I ask a question, and if you cannot answer, you have to say that you are coming back. I also find it distressing that, if I understood him correctly, the Minister for Civil Affairs believes that the Left Party is a harmful party which has a bad influence on the government and that it is the fault of the Alliance that the Left Party cooperates with the government. Madam President, I would like You can hear how weird and twisted it sounds. Would we force the Social Democrats to settle with the Left Party on such an important issue? No, I don't think so. In fact, it is the Left Party that wants to support the government budget, Ardalan Shekarabi, and you need to cooperate with them. But it's not on all the issues you want to cooperate. On certain issues that you have got through here in the Riksdag, you have sometimes even taken the help of the Swedish Democrats. Now I do not mean that you should cooperate with the Swedish Democrats, but I find it distressing that you want to mess with us that you cooperate with a harmful party that has roots in Communism. You can't do that. Then there was a lack of gender equality in the response of the Minister for Civil Affairs. He compared it to Norway. There are many other countries – Denmark and others – that have different systems, which I think is addressed in the investigation. In Denmark, however, individuals pay monthly from their own wallet to attend a free school, for example. However, we have chosen not to have this system here in Sweden. In Sweden, the school should be open to everyone, whether it is a free or a public actor. The school will give our children education. The thickness of your wallet should not have any bearing on which school you go to, I think. Gender equality is a matter of freedom for us, and that is, of course, a matter of course. It is quality that should govern, not who runs the business. Madam President, I would like It would be much more interesting to see how activities with the same money can make different results. Many times, executioners can cope with the money they receive, while others have a deficit. It is usually municipal-owned businesses that have a deficit, although they get the same money as the free companies in the welfare. When talking about tax money, losses in welfare should be a greater concern for this welfare. When you look at different quality barometers it is the same money, but a group of companies in the industry show better results than, for example, municipal ones. At least then I would scratch my head and think that the people who are active in these activities show their forerunners. What are those who do not do with public welfare, and how is it going with deficits? Then you can ask: Is the money paid too high because you make a profit at all? Is it supposed to lower the money instead? No, I don't think so. I'm sure a lot of people would find it hard to get by. I have many similar examples, including from my own municipality of residence. We don't have a municipal home service. Why haven't we? We do not have that because it turned out that it could not survive with the money that was given. But we have about 30, and at least more than 20, different private home care companies. And the municipality of Täby shows the greatest continuity in home care for the elderly. That is what we should look at – quality – and not ban in principle female entrepreneurship. That's what you're going to do now. I have many other examples, but my speaking time is up. So I'll have to get back to you.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-352	Madam President, I would like Then we have heard the word distressing several times. We have also heard Moderates standing here praising equality and feminism. That's great, because historically we haven't heard before Moderates fighting for equality. They have not even wanted to take the word feminism into their mouth. If you have asked various Moderates if they are feminists, they have said that they absolutely are not and have disowned it, because there has been something ugly within the Moderates. Now they celebrate feminism, and I think that's great. Well, at least we've moved the positions. On the other hand, it is, of course, distressing that there is a spreading of rumours and even pure lies from moderate Members of Parliament from the pulpit. There are moderate members of parliament who stand here and say that it is so bad for these companies. Some of them have not made any profit, and those who have made a profit have reinvested the entire profit in the business. That's good. The companies that have reinvested in the business are in no way threatened in the future. Those who are serious as entrepreneurs and reinvest their profits in staff, in higher wages, in skills development, in education and in higher quality should continue to do so. It is the entrepreneurs who prefer to pursue a prize hunt rather than to improve quality and who prefer to distribute the profits to the shareholders that we want to get to grips with this proposal. I think it is a very good proposal, and I very much welcome it. It will benefit women, because women depend on well-functioning welfare. Women use a lot of welfare services and also want them to be of high quality. It will also benefit women in different ways. I know a lot of girls who work in the health care sector, and many of them work in private alternatives. Unfortunately, they have lower wages, and they have more stress on their jobs. However, this is not the case in all private companies, but there are many good examples. Those who look after their staff and want to reinvest their profits in quality should be allowed to continue to do so. So there are both, as we have heard examples here. It's not lies. It's the truth. Both men and women own welfare companies. But we can actually see that it is the men who own the big companies and that it is usually they who carry out these profit hunts. Women are more likely to ensure that they have a good functioning business and want to reinvest in their businesses. Unfortunately, the lies, the spreading of rumours and the floods that have occurred in the autumn have caused many entrepreneurs to be horrified and to believe in the propaganda of many of the large companies and right-wing Members. They have gone on this and thought that they will not be allowed to continue. Now they think they have to close down, even though they are serious and despite the fact that they will reinvest their profits. I very much hope that we can clarify this today. Of course, those serious companies that continue to reinvest their profits in quality in welfare should remain in place.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-358	Madam President, I would like I was going to tell you about some women who have worked in the public sector where they have seen problems, been prevented from doing differently, seen shortcomings and, above all, seen opportunities. They have had an opportunity to do something else with activities. Kerstin, who is actually called something else, worked in a county council in the middle of Sweden. She worked with the rehabilitation of people who have had accidents. One of the people she met in her work was a high-level canoeist who did not want to remain alive. He had dark thoughts because he had been injured. Part of the rehabilitation work that Kerstin did was to go out with this canoeist to the canoe club and to the people he had worked with before. He regained the joy of life by feeling appreciated and lacking the knowledge he had. He could eventually start working there with the others at the club to teach others what he himself had learned. What then happened was that Kerstin received a call from her manager in the county council, and she thought it would be about changing methods and finding new thoughts. But Kerstin boss said, if we were to do what you say, what would it look like? It is precisely this that is part of the whole of the thinking where we come from, that is, that much is cemented, that it should be done in a certain way and that you should not do in any other way. It ended with Kerstin resigning. She has started her own business and has achieved successful results for these people. It is something to build on and look at what you are accomplishing. We are talking about good examples. But we are not talking about good examples to build on when it comes to the welfare of private and public activities, but we are talking about it during profit debates. Instead of asking, what are we going to do? I find it both sad and sad that this is the case. In addition, the government is talking about its innovations. These are really innovations for people in everyday life. Let me take another example of Nils, who is actually called something else. Nils is severely disabled. He was living in a municipal establishment, where he and his family would announce once a year when and how he would have his help and support in other housing during the year. It was very square. What he needed was flexibility for the family and for him to function well. When Nils came to the new accommodation, he got massages in the morning. He was stimulated by this contact because he cannot move or speak. When the staff at this accommodation called the family and asked if they were allowed to give Nils a massage every morning because they felt it was good for him, the family cried, because they had not had time for it in the other accommodation. We must look at these examples to see what can be achieved. It's not about people running faster. There is a continuity of staff in another way in this other accommodation. What can they accomplish? That's what we're going to develop. This accommodation was started by a woman who has three different accommodations around Sweden. That she has been able to do so is because she has had some money left over. I cannot see the tragedy that she has been able to start good activities for these children and young people. In fact, I get a little despondent when Monica Green says that it doesn't matter if she can close them or not.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-370	Madam President, I would like I and the Government will continue with the debate on the prohibition of freedom of choice in a forthcoming interpellation debate, but Monica Green makes it necessary for me to take the floor. It is, of course, important, Madam President, for Monica Green to understand the proposal presented by the government and the Communists on the late afternoon of Friday, as my colleague Erik Andersson said. It seems that Monica Green is not aware of what the proposal means, but I am absolutely convinced that Minister Shekarabi could set aside an hour and go through what it means. It would also be good if Monica Green and other socialists went out to visit the independent schools and the companies that will be affected by the freedom of choice ban. On the other hand, I will be quite honest and say that I care less about the companies than about all the hundreds of thousands of students who will be allowed to leave the school they have chosen. I think that entrepreneur Pernilla Hålén describes welfare policy very well in his open letter to Stefan Löfven. Why don't you just tell me that you want me to shut down my business? So I can do it with dignity and honor instead of tearing my hair to try to save a ship you're shooting holes on! It's Social Democratic nutrition policy. Another article is about the free school Lust & Lära, which is also in my constituency. It is a fantastic free school in Bollnäs that I hope the Government can visit; it is still your old home country, Ardalan Shekarabi. It has calculated what the proposal means, and it is noted that with a turnover of 30 million it would be possible to make a profit of 100 000. With a turnover of 30 million you would have to make a profit of 100 000! The teachers, the enthusiasts, who have started the company say that there is not a person in life who would risk his personal economy in that way. Another article that I find very interesting to read concerns a free school in Falun. The writer started her company with 100 000 share capital ten years ago. The proposal put forward would allow her to make a profit of SEK 7 000. She notes that she has 30 employees and a turnover of 14 million, which means that a few days' sick leave would wipe out the entire profit of the previous year. Madam President, I would like Entrepreneurs will be fine. These are enterprising entrepreneurs; they will certainly start other businesses. But think of all the students who will be allowed to leave free school! Think of all the patients – 39% of the patients in Gävleborg County – who have actually chosen to go to a private health centre! I think it's good that Monica Green says she wants to train entrepreneurs in economics. Then it would be a good idea for Monica Green also to understand what proposal the government will actually make. If you do, you realize that Pernilla Holén is onto something when she asks why you don't just say she should close down her businesses. I can respect the Left Party – just as my colleague Erik Andersson told me, the Left Party, with its communist history, has consistently been against private enterprise. It is nothing new, and I respect the Left Party for it. The tragedy is that it is the Green Party and the Social Democrats who put forward the proposal in government. Then I understand that the Government thinks it's embarrassing to be dependent on what the Left Party decides– in some other way it's not possible to interpret the post – and I have full respect for it, but put yourself into what the proposal means, Monica Green!
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-377	Madam President, I would like This is what it sounds like in this debate in this House – the ideological locks between the left and the right, the upper words, the intimidation propaganda. When I listen to the Members of Parliament in question, I get a little worried. Is it Communist rule in the rest of Europe? In fact, we are the only country in Europe that allows free withdrawals from the publicly funded school. Are all other European countries communist tyrants? And why is it, Madam President, that the Conservative Party in Britain is against commercial operation and free profit withdrawals in the publicly funded British school – have they joined the Communist ideology? Then it's very serious. The next question will be how is it that a large majority of moderate voters want to limit the profits in school and welfare significantly. Are the majority of the moderate voters communists? Perhaps there is another explanation, Madam President, and that is that the citizens have been quicker in realizing that it was not as politicians in the early 1990s wanted it to be. When these reforms were pushed through, the idea was that it would be staff cooperatives; it would be small actors with local roots that created a variety of actors and real freedom of choice for citizens. The development over the last ten years has meant that groups take over operations after operations. A few groups dominate the Swedish school market. Just taste that word... the school market. Our fantastic Swedish school has turned into a market. The question the profit defenders should answer is whether Swedish school has become better or worse in recent decades. Has the school become better off by the prize hunt, or has it become worse off by the prize hunt? Madam President, I would like These questions require courage to answer, because it requires self-criticism and an ability to actually admit that things did not turn out as planned. It requires an ability not to see issues only in black and white but to admit that there is also a country between the black and the white. It requires an ability to recognise that we as politicians have a duty to ensure that taxpayers' money is spent effectively. This courage does not always exist in political parties. Sometimes it is the citizens who force political parties to admit that they were wrong, and sometimes it takes time. On this issue, it has taken time. Madam President, I would like I was happy when the Moderates under Anna Kinberg Batra's leadership actually admitted that there were problems seeing welfare and school as a market. I was happy when Anna Kinberg Batra presented a proposal to ban profits – it was actually a profit ban, not a profit limit – for some schools. Then we began to see signs of moderate self-criticism. However, as the Moderates begin to step far out on the right, they begin to return to the position of the Moderate Coalition Party in these matters before the Caremaskan Valley and the JB bankruptcy. It was a bankruptcy that was preceded by large profit payments and meant that 10 000 Swedish students were without school – because we had allowed free profit withdrawals. This naive policy must come to an end, Madam President. We must deliver what the citizens expect of us. Moderate and Social Democratic voters agree: the benefits of welfare should be limited. It is our duty to do this.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-384	Madam President, I would like I can tell Monica Green I'm celebrating equality, and we've washed that part. I can also note that the Minister of Civil Affairs is talking about a ban on profits and profit withdrawals. Not a single word has he said about equality, and now he has had two speeches. Speaking of profit, I can only say that the non-profit organisations have been excluded, because they too have realised that the de facto ban on profit cannot be continued. However, I would like to go back to equality. The Minister for Civil Affairs claims to be part of a feminist government, and yet it is prepared to put forward a proposal which, in practice, prohibits profit in a women-dominated sector. I wonder in my quiet mind why. What does the feminist government say to those who are now training in these professions? Seven out of ten students of nurse, midwife or physiotherapist – all of these are women-dominated educations – think it is important to be able to choose the type of employer, private or public. I have great respect for that. Six out of ten future midwives estimate that they would have better opportunities to influence their work situation and to hear their ideas from a private caregiver. The members of the Health Care Association are today choosing out the county councils because of poor conditions. Look in Stockholm! Private employees have higher wages and better working hours. The chairman of the Health Care Association says: So it is the chairman of the Health Association who says so. Does the Minister of Civil Affairs agree with the investigator that the proposal will have no impact on equality between men and women?
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-389	Madam President, I would like We have had a debate on freedom of choice in welfare. The most startling statement in tonight's debate has been that it is the Alliance's fault that the Social Democratic Government must cooperate with the Left. But if it had not been the case that the Social Democrats were leaning to the left, we would not have had a Social Democratic government at all, but we would have ruled. I therefore do not think that the Minister for Civil Affairs should touch this on us. That is quite the wrong idea, quite simply. The Social Democrats are running scare propaganda into rhetoric. They talk about wanting to keep the big capitalists away from welfare, but in fact this proposal is about preventing small-scale welfare. The Minister of Civil Affairs points out what it looks like in Europe. In Sweden, however, we have chosen another system. In Sweden, all students can go to a free school – you don't have to have a thick wallet for this, as is the case in Europe. The system we have today is much better because you do not need rich parents to choose which school you want. The Social Democrats want to prevent small-scale welfare. A home care company will not be able to survive, because a home care company usually does not have any operational capital. I would like to hear from Monica Green or from the Minister for Civil Affairs how much operational capital a home care company has. Without you having to answer, I can say that it is basically zero. A company that cannot make a small profit in order to parry bad years will fail. This is Social Democratic policy at its root. You have always been against free companies in welfare, and you have always tried to oppose them.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-395	Madam President, I would like It is very difficult to debate with moderates who make such claims that the sossians have always been against small businesses and tried to fight them. History has shown that it has worked really well in this country once we have ruled. But the Moderates don't want to see that. They also do not want to see the proposal as such. Now they stand and claim that it is the smaller companies that would be knocked out. If they make an effort to read the proposal that has now been put forward, they will see that this is a way to keep the money in business and to ensure that we reintroduce the money so that it does not disappear out of the country or into the pockets of shareholders. We'll see to it that the business continues. I know Karin, who is actually called something else. She works in a private health care company and goes home to the elderly. She has a very stressful work situation. She also earns less than those of her colleagues who work in the public sector – in the municipality. She is so stressed that she has to eat her food while driving the car to the next elderly, because the schedule is so strained. If we make sure that profits go back to business, more can be employed, including in the private sector. Then Karin, who is actually called something else, will have a much calmer situation. In this way, we can ensure that women have a much better working situation. This is good for equality. I would also like to comment on what was claimed in the debate that Ardalan Shekarabi has not mentioned the word gender equality. I have heard him say several times today how good this will be and that it is good that the Moderates now welcome equality and feminism.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-400	Madam President, I would like To those of you who sit up in the gallery, I would like to say that we ended in the middle of a debate. In this debate, I gave examples from the inside, that is, from women who have started activities. Monica Green said that this proposal does not have to be so that you have no money left. But in Jämtland, for example, there is a health centre in a place that the public, i.e. the region or county council, has left. Instead, it operates a private activity through the region. The region requires this health centre to have at least half a million over each year, like an airbag if anything happens. Everyone knows what an airbag sitting in a car means. This is an airbag for business purposes. In the proposal presented last Friday, it is beginning to open up because it may end up where we have said it will end up, that is, on the minus. If you go minus, as we can see, you should be able to have a base amount of 45 000 left. This basic amount is therefore 45 000, while the county council requires half a million. You realize it doesn't make sense. The government goes to other countries and sells the good examples of free schools, health care and care. They say that it works very well in Sweden and that we have new methods. But here at home, we're gonna put them down. It doesn't rhyme at all.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-405	Madam President, I would like Monica Green now helped to pinpoint the hypocrisy of the policies of the Social Democrats. If Monica Green had been involved in the work environment – if Monica Green had protected her acquaintance who works in home care – she would have fought with us Moderates, side by side, to ensure that more businesses are turned off, that more private companies start and that more employees are allowed to work in the business with the lowest sick leave. It is, of course, the case that the Government, Monica Green and everyone else know which employers cause ill health. It is a municipality, state and county council. Madam President, I would like The employers with the lowest sick leave in Sweden are the private companies. Sick leave is already the lowest if you include all businesses, but if you also break down these statistics to micro-enterprises and large enterprises, sickness rates are extremely low, Madam President. If Monica Green wanted to protect those who work in home care and care for the elderly, she would be the most angry critic of the proposal presented on Friday. Monica Green also did not respond to the little math lesson we had before the break. The truth is that the so-called operating capital means that no companies in the welfare sector in Sweden can make a profit. This is a matter of principle. It is, of course, the case that people are fleeing from Cuba, North Korea, Venezuela and other countries that have tested the model of society that the Left Party in Sweden, with the help of social democrats and environmentalists, wants to introduce.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-411	Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to thank Erik Andersson, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, Monica Green, Lars Beckman and Helena Bouveng for this discussion. Unfortunately, it has provided yet another proof of the ideological locks that exist in this issue. We often hear parallels in this House with Soviet dictatorship and Cuba when we talk about a regulatory framework that limits the leakage from publicly funded welfare. It's sad that we're there. To conclude, I would like to remind Members of Parliament and any audience that the order proposed by the government is a system that exists in all other European countries. Sweden is the only country in Europe that does not have restrictions on profit payments from the publicly funded school. If we are to ensure that there will continue to be diversity and freedom of choice for citizens, if we are to ensure that citizens have real freedom of choice in practice between different activities, we need a regulatory framework that focuses on quality and ensures that resources are used to improve the quality of activities. The quality of this area, Madam President, is created by the employees. If employees have good conditions, and there are enough, good quality emerges. If employees have poor conditions, and are too few, quality problems arise. If we can get a regulatory framework in place that means that a larger part of taxpayers' money is invested in staff, we can work to improve quality. It is an issue that our municipalities are fighting with on a daily basis, it is an issue that is extremely topical for the private sector as well, and it is an issue that requires the state, government and parliament to act and legislate on a regulatory framework that solves the problems. Thank you for the debate.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-416	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me which companies I have met have a picture that a profit ban does not adversely affect the companies and employees, if I consider that the employees of the private welfare companies are doing a worse job than the corresponding people in the public sector and – if the regulation that the interpeller calls a profit ban is introduced – what measures I take to ensure that the quality of the operations does not fall and that health centres and schools, including in Gävle municipality, should not be closed down. The government has made it clear that it continues to want individual actors to be able to operate in welfare. Those who carry out serious welfare activities and regularly reinvest in the business will continue to be able to operate with high quality. A diversity of actors in welfare can contribute to increased innovation and development. Of course, employees in private welfare companies are doing just as important work as employees in the public sector. The fact that a larger proportion of tax revenue is used, for example, to increase staff density and to improve the wages of employees in welfare rather than being distributed to owners is positive both for employees and for the quality of welfare. The government recently decided on a Council of Law referral proposing that a permit to receive public funds should be introduced in social services and school law-regulated activities. As the regulation is designed to provide a reasonable remuneration for invested capital, the government estimates that the majority of the actors engaged in welfare activities will be interested in doing so even when the regulation is implemented. It cannot be ruled out that some operators choose to leave welfare, and it is likely that regulation will lead to ownership changes. The fact that parts of the activities will be continued by other owners is not considered to have a significant impact on users. It is not uncommon today that private performers go bankrupt or choose to leave welfare, as is also the case among private school leaders. The Government is aware that the activities in these cases have been taken over without much delay by new performers and principals. Municipalities are always obliged to provide equivalent services in their own right. There are many examples of countries that can cope with welfare without allowing free profit withdrawals. In Denmark, the distribution of profits is completely prohibited for independent schools. Despite this, more than 16% of all comprehensive school pupils in Denmark go to independent schools with different forms of educational orientation. Although independent schools are common in Europe, no other European country allows public funds to go to school activities aimed at generating profits for its owners. For health and long-term care activities there are profit-making activities in other countries. However, the share of non-profit activities is generally higher in other European countries than in Sweden. In Germany, for example, the share of non-profit activities in healthcare is 49%. Against this background, therefore, it is possible to create prosperity with a variety of players and with freedom of choice for citizens without the public funding of companies whose profits are completely unregulated. The proposals submitted by the Government to the Legislative Council do not cover activities carried out under the Health Care Act. The Government considers that further consideration is needed as to what solution is needed for tax funds to be used for what they are intended for in the healthcare sector. The Government has appointed the investigation Order and clear up the care with Göran Stiernstedt as special investigator ( Dir. 2017:128). The proposals will be sub-reported in June and the final report will be presented at the end of 2018.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-421	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I have written this interpellation because I safeguard freedom of choice. I protect the freedom of choice for anyone who wants to choose their school. I protect the freedom of choice for anyone who wants to choose their health centre. I protect the freedom of choice of those who want to choose their care for the elderly. Madam President, I would like Sweden is unique in the world, and I am very proud of it. I am deeply concerned when I hear Members and Ministers talk about Denmark in this House. In Denmark it costs up to two and a half thousand a month to attend a free school. The single mother of three in Gävle, whom I happen to know, who has had her children in free school, would therefore, with the model presented in this answer, perhaps have to pay SEK 7 500 a month. This would mean that the single mother of three could not have his three children in free school. I do not want such a system, Madam President. I want people, citizens of Sweden, no matter where they live, no matter where they come from, to have the right to choose. They should have the right to choose what is good, and they should have the right to opt out of what is bad without having to take economic consideration. I am proud of the Swedish model, and I wish that more parties were also proud of the Swedish model. It would be interesting to hear how one justifies mentioning the Danish model at all, where one should pay up to two and a half thousand kronor to go to school. That is also true of other countries. There are private schools in many other countries, but there is freedom of choice for the rich. It is the rich with large wallets that have the option to choose. I don't want it that way. I think the Swedish model is excellent. There you have the right, regardless of where you live, to choose what is good, and you have the right to opt out of what is bad. Madam President, I would like I am concerned that one does not look at which business works best. The logical thing would have been for a government to look at, for example, the school. You look at where the study results are best and where the study results need to be improved. Then, of course, the greatest political force would have been put into trying to improve an activity that is bad rather than attacking the activities that work well. I was happy when I read in an article that Anna Ekström, when she was chairman of a government agency, had called the owner of the English School and asked what they are doing that is so good and wondered how the activities can be improved. Then the political conclusion should not be that we are trying to close the schools that work best. For me, it's a strange sense of solidarity that everyone's going to get worse. Of course, the solidarity that was expected is that everyone should be better off. We should be proud of the Swedish model, that is to say that you have the right to choose what is good and that you have the right to opt out of what is bad. I don't want a cost charge at school. I do not want anyone, as in Denmark, to pay two and a half thousand dollars a month to choose their free school. I think that is a bad system, Madam President.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-431	Madam President, I would like Certainly an interesting debate! If you want to ban those actors in welfare who are bad, this is quite the wrong way to go. You can see this if you look at how the free actors or private companies in the welfare sector perform in different measurements. We can take the JobbsHealth Barometer, which compares employees in private and publicly driven care and who thrives best at work. It shows that those who work in private operations feel both healthier and to some extent more motivated than colleagues who work in public. They also feel that they have time for the tasks that are available on regular working hours. They are generally somewhat more satisfied with their pay when they themselves answer the question. They are also more satisfied with the management and its competence and ability to communicate. Students in free schools experience greater study and security and that their needs are better met. They are more satisfied with the work against violations. In addition, the report shows that the study results in free schools are better. That is what we want to ban, Madam President. In the School Survey for 2015/ 16, the Swedish School Inspectorate makes comparisons between municipal and independent schools. The overall results for municipal and independent schools show that pupils in municipal schools respond to almost all the claims in that survey to a lesser extent. Swedish Quality Index 2016 shows that independent upper secondary schools receive higher grades than municipal operations. The patient peak, a national patient survey from SKL, shows that patients give slightly higher quality grades to private clinics than to county-run clinics. This applies to all quality parameters set up there. This also applies to continuity and contact with, for example, a doctor or a nurse. Analyses of Försäkringskassan also show that sick leave was higher in public operations than in private operations in 2016. One might ask why it looks like this, Madam President. When I visited home care companies in Norrland, we discussed this particular issue. How is it that they are both healthier and more motivated and have more continuity than the publicly driven home service? It has to do with the proximity to decisions, that you have to influence your work environment more and the collegial feeling. Those within the municipality may have exaggerated a little, but they said that there were 14 different levels in the hierarchy up to the boss who could influence something. We do not want such a workplace. The bottom line is this: why ban what is good? Instead, why not learn from what is good? This if we talk quality, and it's just quality we're going to talk about. I also talked to free school entrepreneurs in a municipality in Norrland where the Social Democrats have been running for 96 years. Constantly, they are constantly being resisted – it could be about building permits, contacts with the municipality, anything. This is in the nature of social democracy: you want everyone to have it just as bad. We're not gonna get to choose. We're not going to be able to evolve and get better. Madam President, I would like I think the government is all wrong. Then the Minister for Civil Affairs can think about this: how much operational capital does a home care company have?
i-XK31BtXewi5tsVZr3jPABt	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Erik Andersson and Lars Beckman, for the contributions! The world is simple. Everything is black or white. What the Social Democrats are doing is wrong, according to the debaters, and what the Moderates are doing is always good. It is always wrong to regulate private performers. It's always wrong, what the public does. That is not how the world looks, Madam President. The truth is always somewhere in between. The Social Democrats sometimes do good things, sometimes worse things. The Moderates are sometimes good, sometimes less good. What is the strength of the policy is to have the courage to critically examine the policies that have been pursued, to see what effects that policy has had and to address its drawbacks and negative consequences. We have a leak from Swedish welfare. Over-profits amount to billions. It's money leaking from Swedish welfare. This means either that we overtax the Swedish population by several billions or that these billions could be used to hire more teachers and nurses or improve the conditions for employees in welfare. There is nothing liberal-conservative about defending the leak from welfare. That is also the reason why moderate voters oppose profits in welfare, that a majority of moderate voters want to see limitations on profits in welfare, that a majority of bourgeois voters want to see limitations on profits in welfare. There is nothing liberal-conservative in overestimating people, in saying that now we are taking more than half of your income to fund welfare and allow leakage from welfare. If we are to maintain the legitimacy of joint financing, which Lars Beckman also seems to advocate, we have an obligation as politicians to ensure efficient use of resources that means that the tax money should go to what it is intended for. We can't do that today. Madam President, I would like Now that the government is increasing resources for the school with targeted government grants in the billion-dollar class, the government and parliament have no tools to ensure that the money is actually used for the purposes of the independent actors. It is important to say this in the Riksdag; it is important that it is heard in our social debate: We do not have the tools to ensure that the money to go to Swedish school is actually used within the school. It is perfectly legal to take part in tax funds, targeted state subsidies aimed at increasing the quality of schools, and take that money and distribute it in profit. I am not talking about private capital. I am talking about state grants that are intended to solve the enormous challenges we have in Swedish schools. Madam President, I would like As far as I know, Erik Andersson will go to the municipal sector. I want to wish him good luck in that commitment. The municipal sector in Sweden has enormous challenges: demographic development, school, growing welfare consumption and the effects of urbanisation. The number of inhabitants in about half of Sweden's municipalities has shrunk since the 1970s, creating enormous challenges. In such a situation, we have an obligation to ensure that each tax chandelier is used as efficiently as possible. Our response to the citizens, Madam President, cannot simply be tax increases or cuts. We have an obligation to increase productivity in the public sector. This applies to their own direct management, but also to the more efficient use of resources by the independent actors. It was against this background, among other things, that last summer the Moderates proposed a profit ban for schools that did not deliver. Do you remember that? It was when Anna Kinberg Batra was party leader. Now it sounds a little different. I hope the Moderates reconsider on this issue.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-458	Madam President, I would like What about out there in the real world? What about the results that are delivered in the welfare that we all agree on should be publicly funded and of high quality? Private homes for the elderly have had better results than municipal housing in the National Board of Health and Welfare's unit surveys for several years. According to the National Board of Health and Welfare's unitary surveys, private domestic care has for several years proved to be better than public home care providers. Independent preschools have the best results when parents and staff in independent and municipal activities are asked. Students in free schools consistently give their schools higher grades in terms of soft values such as studies, stimulation and challenges compared to pupils in municipal schools – even after checking for pupils' socio-economic background. Free schools run by limited liability companies achieve better results on the national tests in English and Swedish, higher merit values, higher percentage of students who reach approved in all subjects and higher proportion of upper secondary qualified students compared to municipal schools, also taking into account their background. 15 of the country's 20 most popular health centres are run by welfare companies. This, Madam President, is the ultimate proof that the government has landed completely wrong. What if we had stood here tonight and instead debated how to improve our business where it needs to be improved most? Instead, the government has come up with some strange sidetrack. It is true that, if I understood the Government correctly in another interpellation debate, it is the Moderates' fault that this stupid proposal is being put forward, because Stefan Löfven has been forced to cooperate with the Left Party. This is for real; it's not a play or a play. If this proposal were to win a hearing in the Swedish Parliament, it would affect 23 per cent of all places in primary and upper secondary school – every fourth student attends a free school, for example, as the Government knows well. The Government says in the answer: Yes, yes, it may well be solved by the municipality if the state closes down. This is, in fact, similar to the policy that you have pursued against Sweden's disabled people. The Social Insurance Agency has taken three decisions a day to withdraw the state's personal assistance. The municipalities have remained and tried to take care of the Moras that the government has accomplished. In my interpellation, I asked a rather simple question, to which we have not yet received an answer. The Government will of course respond to it in the next speech. What companies have you or any other government representative met who say that this is a good proposal that does not affect their ability to move forward? What principal have you met? Lust & Lära i Bollnäs– just go there, meet the five teachers who started the free school and ask them: Would you have been able to start if this legislation was in place? To save the government the trip to Bollnäs, I can say: No, they could not have done that. The five teachers, who saw a great opportunity to create a large and good elementary school as they wanted, had not been able to start it with the proposal you put forward. Lust & Lära is Bollnäs' largest primary school. The families in Bollnäs have thus chosen to let the children go to Lust & Lära because they think it is a good school that gives good results. And that, Madam President, is what this government wants to take away.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-472	Madam President, I would like I think the Secretary of Civil Affairs is confusing the cards. He says that tax money that goes to welfare should be spent in welfare – exactly, I think so too. That's not the problem. The problem is that the Secretary of State mixes up the cards. It is tax money that goes to these businesses. It is usually a money, but it can also be an aid decision, such as in home care. But everyone gets exactly the same amount of money. A free school gets just as much as a municipal school. How is it that the free school generally has better results, better quality, more satisfied students and happier teachers? Yet they take out a small profit. It is not the case, Madam President, that the free schools receive more money, as the Minister for Civil Affairs is trying to suggest. These activities receive the same amount, and yet they do better. Madam President, I would like If I were a civilian minister, which I probably will never be, I would probably look at the good examples. How can we make public operations more efficient and work in such a way as to increase quality parameters? That's the crux of it: It's the quality we're going to look at. These guys get exactly the same money. Allow me to quote a wise Social Democrat, except when he tore half of Klara: I share that view, and that is why I am moderate. I am always on the side of the citizens and protecting taxpayers' money.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-476	Madam President, I would like I think it's good that the Moderates put these interpellations, because it shows so clearly how real they are: They don't know what the Swedish people, even the Moderates, think. Even Moderates think that there should be an end to the pursuit of profit in welfare. Even moderate voters think that the money should go back to the business and that small companies can continue and that one should be able to choose. There are many voters who think so, and so we should continue to do so. It's the prize hunt that's going away. It's great that it says moderates here and says that every squandered crown of tax is a theft. We can now see how things have turned out. School results have not improved these years. On the other hand, there has been a loss of 4.7 billion from private welfare companies and schools. So taxpayers' money has disappeared instead of going to more teachers, more curators, higher salaries for staff and better quality. Small businesses, perhaps staff cooperatives or staff-owned companies, may continue. This is about the big, gigantic companies, which sometimes go bankrupt or no longer think it is profitable enough and put the municipalities on the pot when they have to take care of a number of students from one day to another. That's what we're going to get at now, by getting rid of the prize hunt. We will continue with freedom of choice and private alternatives if the money is used for what it is intended for. I think this is a very good proposal, and I think it is good that the Moderates reveal themselves in the debate and show their own voters that they do not think like them.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-480	Madam President, I would like Leakage in Swedish welfare, the Government was in on. That debate has continued. Much money has disappeared in Swedish welfare in many different ways. Unfortunately, in a municipality that receives allocated money, it does not happen too rarely that it is minus in the account at the end of the year. Minus on a school account means taking somewhere else, for example from care, or vice versa. Then it becomes a black hole that you do not measure, if you are to measure on the other side, when it is on plus. It is very important in a debate to look at the whole picture: where we come from and how it was. Productivity growth, says the Government. What does that mean? Should they run faster in the same system they've worked in before, using the same methods? Then there will be even more money and even more wrong. Or should you do it in different and different ways? That is what this whole discussion has pushed forward: that people have seen that they want something else. It can be about the elderly in care for the elderly, about the pupils at school or about health centres where you can get before and after working hours. It's about working smart, and it means working in a different way, not running faster. The activities are often run by women who come from the public sector and have seen the problems in their workplaces: in elderly care, in school or in health centres. We think they have done good things; that even says Monica Green in this debate, even if she says some other strange things. It is about freedom of choice and the small ones. Over time and with this government, it has required even more legal muscle. It has become much more bureaucratic, and it sends out signals not to bother. I'd like to ask Monica Green and the Council of State a question. These women have mortgaged houses and homes or borrowed from friends, acquaintances or parents in order to start businesses with different content. They have seen that it is possible to do things in a different way, which was not okay in the workplace they came from because there was no time, energy or desire; it has not been possible in any case. So they've had a chance to do something else in a different way. Then staff, friends, friends, and coworkers have accompanied them to these activities and run them with different methods of success. People have turned there to get what they have not had access to before. How will this happen in your world? I'd like to know. A free school somewhere in Sweden was started by a couple of teachers. They went to their principal because they wanted to change the content of the school. The headmaster said, let's talk to the head of administration. The head of administration said: No, not here with us, then you can start school. They did. They gathered resources and started a free school that they ran with great success. It was not a matter of drawing lots, but everyone was welcome there. It was in a mill somewhere in the country. Those who ruled did not think this was a good idea. They did everything they could to stop this development. Finally, they did as they have done elsewhere: They used the building committee to stop the operation. Today, the school is gone. The students have gone to the municipal school. Today there is a culture of silence. There are violations. There are big problems. It is not just at this school but everywhere in Sweden.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-489	Madam President, I would like There are many different topics that have been touched upon in the discussion. There are also many misunderstandings in the debate, such as the negative impact of this proposal on diversity and choice. There are no such effects. On the contrary, the proposal is about ensuring that the actors involved in ideas also have better conditions, so that we have a real diversity of activities and educational orientations. That was the point of the free school reform between 1991 and 1994, and it has now been forgotten. Now there are some groups that buy free schools and social activities, and so we get uniformity. There will be some groups that dominate a market rather than just innovation, a variety of activities and employee involvement. This kind of conclusion is reached if you read and objectively and self-critically study the subject. But if you have ideological blind spots and a belief that the private is always better than the public – or that the public is always better than the private – you do not come to these conclusions. There are no studies showing that the quality of the public is generally higher than that of the private sector or that the quality of the private sector is higher than that of the public sector. It is, in fact, a subject on which considerable research has been carried out. There are individual studies showing differences, but generally there is no evidence. So there are private activities that are good, and there are public activities that are good. On the other hand, we see, for example, in the field of education, that the benefits come from lower staffing density. We know that. These are the tasks of the Central Statistical Office. We know that commercial free schools have a lower staffing density than both municipal schools and idea-based schools. It is not possible to talk about quality in school or in welfare if you do not invest in staff and professions. The wrong approach to school policy in our country has been that it has been thought that it can improve the quality of school without taking into account the autonomy, the room for manoeuvre and the conditions of the profession. It seems that the Moderates have got caught up in the wrong thinking: Forget the staff and teachers – here are some companies that will create quality in school! No, the teachers need to be more. They need to get a higher salary. We need to have even more autonomy for our professions in school in order to meet the challenges of the school. We do not do that with today's regulations. Madam President, I would like When I was doing research in the area of procurement law, before I entered Parliament and later became a minister, I began by trying to find another European country that had a similar system for me to do a comparative study. The only problem is that there are no other European countries that allow free withdrawals. There was another country in the Western world that did so, namely Chile, but it abolished the possibility of unlimited distribution of school profits during the last term of office. The question then has to be asked: is it because we are so much smarter than everyone else that we have the unique system of free profit withdrawals and leakages from school, or is it a lack and inability of the political system to tackle this deficiency? The distance between the moderate voters and the Moderate Coalition Party on the issue of profit is explained by very strong lobbying forces that do not want profits to be limited. Here the interests of the citizens are against the interests of the owners. Where will the money be invested when surpluses arise? Now we have been told that the Moderates will fight for free profit withdrawals from the publicly funded school. That is regrettable.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-499	Madam President, I would like It is truly worthwhile that both the Government and Monica Green are concerned about the moderate voters. In fact, I think we're dealing with them ourselves. Among the Swedish people, if I remember correctly, nine out of ten or eight out of ten wanted to retain the freedom of choice. Unlike the Government, I am proud of the Swedish model. I am proud that everyone in Sweden has the right to choose their own publicly funded welfare. I do not want the system mentioned by the Government in its interpellation response, namely the Danish system. I don't want a system where a single mother of three in Gävle couldn't afford to put her children in free school. It costs 2 500 SEK per month and children in the Danish system. Madam President, I would like I am proud that the Swedish people themselves can decide which health centre to go to, what elderly care to have or which school to put their children in. There is no need to develop the calculator, and there are no financial constraints. It's a fantastic system that we're supposed to take care of. In fact, the Swedish model usually talks about other parties. But we have now understood that it is the Moderates' fault that Jonas Sjöstedt and the little Left Party should enforce a freedom of choice ban in Sweden. It doesn't make sense. Of course, the large, broad parties should take a hand in such matters. The large, broad parties must of course safeguard freedom of choice, quality, diversity and the Swedish model.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-503	Madam President, I would like It is fun that we will now be talking about the Swedish model. That means, of course, that we should have strong social partners. It also means that we should have a good welfare for everyone. The Swedish people do not want a profit hunt in their welfare. It's very clear. On the other hand, many people want to retain diversity and freedom of choice. That is why this proposal is now being presented. We will retain diversity and freedom of choice, but we will see to it that the prize hunt is stopped. I find it a little sad that the Moderates, who are now becoming more alien to their own voters, are going the way of capital. This is claimed by lobby groups. They try to instill fears and frighten entrepreneurs, who suddenly think they will not be allowed to continue. Well, they will continue if they reinvest in their business and have good quality. Then they'll get permission. So it's a scare-propaganda that doesn't look like it. Even long before you have seen the proposal, these statements are made. Many have not seen the proposal that came on Friday but continue to believe that everything should be stopped and so on. It seems that this is the debate you want, rather than looking at what the proposal actually means. But, as I said, it is good that we are talking about the Swedish model. We'll be proud of it. Let's make sure we develop it, not phase it out. We will develop it and ensure that we get an even better welfare and an even better quality in our welfare. We should not have leaks of 4.7 billion from the welfare system, but the money should be used for what it is intended for, because that is what taxpayers want.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-508	Madam President, I would like That's a point of diversity. Yes, Minister, that's where we agree. We spend a lot of time discussing an issue that is about profits in the educational world, care and health care. But what's our main track-- which must be that and which is that in everything we've lifted-- is the content. It is the content of the school that our children attend in the morning. In some places it is no longer order. It's really serious. There are little children in primary school who are running on the benches. There are signs that there are reports of children beating their teachers with brooms. Those kids are in their sevens and eights. You don't deal with violations. It is a culture of silence, as I mentioned earlier. It is about employees submitting notifications that stay at the nearest level. They cannot go the way that Monica Green and others claim to be protecting, that is to say, the one dealing with strong social partners. Everybody's quiet. What's going on? Well, the students have disorder in their classes. You're afraid to report up. Politicians in RACs don't know what's going on-- it's not coming out. They are ultimately responsible. This is serious. What I want and wish with all my heart is for diversity to make schools have a good content for everyone who goes there, so that they can take advantage of their life chances with an education that allows them to live a good life, get a job and have a good life.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-512	Madam President, I would like Thank you, fellow Members of Parliament, for a very good discussion! In a regrettable yet clear way, it clarifies the differences in Swedish politics. On the one hand, we have a government that wants us to have demands on those actors who are active in the publicly funded welfare and who are given the right to receive tax money to conduct welfare and school activities. This requirement is to have a certain limitation of profits in order to ensure that, as a general rule, surpluses – which arise in the business – are reinvested in the business, including in the staff. On the other side are the four bourgeois parties, the Swedish Democrats and about 5 percent of the voters. They represent the view that there should be unlimited profit payments from the publicly funded school and welfare. It is sad that it has become so. Madam President, I would like I am convinced that the Swedish right could have taken a different position. Instead of spending days and nights defending the leaks from welfare and school, one could have tried to do something about these problems. It would have been possible to ensure that we have regulation that solves the problems and, at the same time, creates legitimacy for those involved in school and welfare activities. It is not a good situation that about 70% of voters have a distrust of the current system. Although we have had the system in place since the early 1990s, a majority do not want profits in welfare. Then it is reasonable that we try to find a solution to this, so that those who operate and who have a commercial character in the business are entitled to a reasonable return on private capital. As a general rule, however, surpluses should be returned to business. That is not an unreasonable attitude. That is certainly not an unreasonable attitude. Unfortunately, however, the right seems to have chosen a different path, and it is only to be regretted.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-515	Madam President, I would like Ann-Britt Ann-Britt has asked me what concrete measures I and the government intend to take to encourage more municipalities to work on long-term housing for seniors, whether I think it would be reasonable to include in the Housing Supply Act an addition to the Social Welfare Board's involvement in the planning of the housing supply and whether I intend to introduce state guarantees to facilitate the construction of housing for the elderly in the form of village communities and cooperative rental rights according to the ownership model. The government has worked actively to increase housing construction throughout its term of office, and housing construction is now at a high level. The Government's housing policy package includes investment aid to organise and provide housing for older people aimed at increasing the number of homes for older people, thereby improving accessibility and increasing opportunities for community and security for older people. This support has been welcomed by many, and the search pressure is high. The package also includes investment aid for the organisation of rental housing and student housing. One of the criteria for taking part in this aid is that the rent is limited, so as to obtain a reasonable cost for those who are going to use the housing. The state-owned company Statens Bostadstransformation AB, SBO, has in its mission to make a practical contribution to the balance of the housing market in towns with a declining population base. The company converts existing properties into new use, mainly requested apartments for the elderly. In order to improve the ability of older people to demand suitable housing, the housing supplement for pensioners, which has remained at the same level since 2007, has been increased as of this year. In addition, the government has reduced the tax on pensioners, including the removal of the higher tax on pensioners for all income up to SEK 17 000 per month. Municipalities play a central role in housing supply. It is gratifying to see that an increasing proportion of municipalities have current housing supply guidelines. Current guidelines are a requirement for municipalities to be able to take part in the so-called construction bonus. In 2017, 199 municipalities took part in this support. A few years ago, the proportion of municipalities with current guidelines for housing supply plans was less than a third, although there are legal requirements for this. The Government has commissioned the investigation into municipal planning for housing to map how municipalities work with analysing and managing the demand and housing needs of groups with a weak position in the housing market. The study will analyse whether there is a need for guidance or complementary municipal tools that can facilitate the work and will make the suggestions that the analysis gives rise to. If necessary, the investigator shall propose changes to the Housing Supply Act. I do not want to precede the work of the investigation in this part. The investigation shall report its work by 30 April of this year. Both the proposal for a start-up grant for village communities and the proposal for a commission to Boverket to develop a refund guarantee for leasing in cooperative rental law are contained in the report Housing to remain in (SOU 2015:85) from the Study on housing for the elderly. A revised proposal on starting grants for village communities is contained in the report Loan and guarantees for more housing (SOU 2017:108), which the report on improved housing financing submitted last December. Both of these reports are currently being prepared in the Government Office. The government has therefore done a great deal, and further questions are under preparation. We will continue our work with a focus on sustainable and well-designed housing in good quality living environments, which can also be requested by people with lower incomes.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-522	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Yes, it is gratifying that some things are happening in the housing market. Unfortunately, however, this may not happen at the pace that one would wish for. In many of the country's municipalities there is no good and affordable housing for seniors to move to or, for that matter, to stay in. Although all pensioners in the municipality have a home, it is rarely suitable for the long term in terms of accessibility. Such a dwelling can be a scourge for an elderly person when the ailments strike, while such a home may be desirable for a young household, perhaps new arrivals or children's households. Thus, homes suitable for older households in well-known neighbourhoods can, in spite of high costs, attract to move and detach homes that are long-awaited on the market, all to the benefit of society and to the benefit of its inhabitants. The more accessible you live as a senior, the more you can take care of yourself and maintain your quality of life. The reverse leads to a greater risk of isolation, falls and a greater need for care and elderly care. It is therefore in the interest of society that there are good and affordable housing for seniors in various forms of employment aimed at the different needs and interests of seniors. There are already municipalities that plan long-term housing needs of seniors with the help of the demographic development that the Government said will now be investigated, and it is clear that social planning, accessibility inventories and surveys need to be carried out among the municipality's elderly. More municipalities should do this, and we hope that it will be a good result of what comes out of this investigation. Madam President, I would like In the Social Services Act, it says about the social welfare committee's participation in community planning. On the other hand, the laws of social planning are not an invitation to such cooperation. It is therefore important to include the municipality's social services, which are familiar with where older people live and what their needs are. As I have said before, it would therefore be desirable to add to Section 2 of the Housing Supply Act that the Social Welfare Board should be involved in planning the housing supply and also provide knowledge and experience on living conditions in the municipality. New pensioners have shown an interest in taking their own initiative to build good housing for the other half of their lives. Some Swedish municipalities have also shown interest in encouraging this new phenomenon, so-called village communities. However, banks are rarely interested in lending to economic associations such as village communities. They are also restrictive in providing mortgages to pensioners. State guarantees for such senior housing would enable banks to lend to construction and speculative cooperative rentals, especially in places where the availability of the housing stock is very low. The government inquiry Loans and guarantees for more housing also describe the need for more housing especially in many smaller municipalities outside the metropolitan regions. It is often difficult to get new production started there, and it is precisely funding that is the major problem. My question to the Government is therefore: does the Government intend to create state guarantees to facilitate the construction of housing for the elderly in the form of village communities?
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-531	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the interpellation from Ann-Britt Ann-Britt. The issue of ensuring that we get more housing for seniors or more homes that seniors want to live in is very important. For example, in my municipality of Kalix, a small municipality, it is quite common for older people to want to move into town. Although this is a municipality that has had a declining population, it means that you need to build new housing, because people do not want to live in the same place as they used to. Demography changes, and this also requires changes in the housing stock largely throughout Sweden. What I think is positive in the answer I gave earlier is, among other things, that the investment aid that we have introduced is very much in demand. For the past year – between November 2016 and November 2017 – we have had over 2,700 permits for new housing with the help of this support that has started or has received this support. In addition, over 400 homes are being converted. This means a total of over 3 000 new homes in Sweden that have come about with the help of the government's efforts in this area, and that is quite good. However, that is not enough. We need to do even more. However, it shows that there is also involvement in the municipalities. Not all of them, but a lot of these projects have been launched by public utilities, and there is a commitment on the part of politicians. I agree that issues relating to village communities and the knowledge of the social services and social welfare committees are important and interesting. As I said, village communities are something that was raised in the study on housing financing, which came up with a proposal in December for a start-up grant. It is therefore very topical and is currently being prepared in the government. The question of the role of the social welfare board can be seen in several different ways. It is, of course, the case that there are local politicians who should reasonably have an opportunity to influence the local planning that takes place in the municipality. However, the discussion on whether to regulate this issue in a clearer way has been raised. This is being discussed in the government and is currently being prepared. However, I cannot tell you where we have landed, because we have not landed yet.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-538	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The study Housing to stay in – Building for community in accessibility-smart living environments describes the growing need for housing adapted for the elderly. It is also noted that the availability of the existing housing stock needs to be improved. Swedish homes are mostly built before 1980. Many older people thus live without modern standards regarding elevators, stairs, thresholds, doors and so on. The study also stated that there must be more housing for seniors that provides opportunities for community and also provides a number of proposals for measures that would improve housing for the elderly, while at the same time giving young people the opportunity to get housing. After all, the age group 65-plus is increasing, and today many municipalities have a population of 25-30% in this age group. Within a ten-year period, we know that the 65-plus age group will increase by 16%. Thus, by 2030, there will be about half a million more people in this age group than today, and this places demands on society's efforts for housing. The other day, I met a friend who told me about his 95-year-old father. The father lives in his house without special supervision of home care. But he is now becoming a little anxious and demanding and sleeps poorly at night. He would love to have a place to live with others. But here the municipality says no – he is too energetic to live in the municipality's special accommodations, and in this municipality there are only municipal accommodations in terms of service and care for the elderly. The old man would like to decide for himself how to live in the autumn of his age: in an accommodation where he can live himself but where there are also common spaces and access to staff. Today, his sons are being helped to go home and sleep with their father to make him feel safe. Of course, there are many good accommodations in different municipalities, but they are too few. I spend a lot of time in my county of Dalarna and visit the various municipalities and listen to what the group 65-plus thinks on various issues. By far the biggest question is that of housing. It's not retirement tax, it's not social care, it's housing. That is why I think it is so important to raise this issue. We see that by 2030 we need about 350 000 new old-age housing, 35 000 of which are in special housing. Last year in my municipality of Falun, 87 apartments were built in so-called sheltered housing. For these 87 apartments, 1,083 persons signed up. So there is a gap between the stock that we have and what we want. It is gratifying that there are a number of actors who build senior homes, usually as apartments in residential blocks of flats. In addition to having modern standards, the added value, compared to ordinary apartments, is that the houses are planned precisely for community. Clearly, the feeling of security is increasing among neighbors who are in much the same life situation. At the same time, experts are seeing a shift in value, where the choice of your own lifestyle is becoming increasingly important. Today's seniors say that they want to realize values other than basic needs, and then the accommodation is very important. The Government says that there will be some proposals in the future. But I'm a little more curious. It is two years since the investigation presented its proposal. Isn't it time to act?
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-550	Madam President, I would like Ann-Britt Ann-Britt is absolutely right that the housing issue is a big and very important issue for many older people. We will have to build many old-age homes in the next few years. There are different varieties of old-age housing with a combination of different degrees of support, help and security. One must probably to a large extent take a position locally based on the local conditions of where and how much to build. I think it is right that we have a decentralised organisation on these issues. But the state can support and help here. It is quite clear that State investment aid in this case has played a role and is in demand. It may be that we may have to invest more resources in these in the future. It is also a central issue to find affordable housing, for many of the elderly we are discussing are now reluctant to enter a home that eats up the entire pension. That is why it is good and important that we have increased the housing allowance and removed the special tax that the Moderates have previously imposed on older people and which only benefits those who work for wages. I think it is a fair issue to ensure that everyone has the same tax, including those who are older and who have earned their income for the pension long ago. It is also one thing that has given more opportunities for older people to pay for housing. In this context, I wonder: if you Moderates still want to abolish investment aid, what are your models and ideas that would make it possible to obtain more housing at reasonable cost and at reasonable prices for the elderly? That is where I think politics does not really make sense. Otherwise, I can sympathise with much of what Ann-Britt Ann-Britt says.
i-GBenmxJZJYwduB5QoCA1Gp	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for questions and for some answers! There have, however, been some developments during this parliamentary term, and there have been a few investigations. My question is still: Why is it taking so long? Since the investigation was presented, 2015, it has been two years. There are a wide range of examples and suggestions on how to resolve these issues. In addition, if we are to talk about pensioner tax, I can say that during the alliance period, the last term of office, we reduced the tax by SEK 14 billion. And don't talk about treasure! I am a pensioner myself and have seen what the tax will mean when, as an old municipal and county council employee, I will lose SEK 1 000 on the day I start taking out my pension. The government may lower taxes in one place, but it's raised in another place. Constantly we have everything got a little less in our wallet than we had before. I want to come back, the Government, to the investigation that came just before Christmas, Loans and guarantees for more housing, where there are a number of good proposals. The Government says the investigation is being prepared in the Government Office. It contains interesting proposals ranging from a review of the K3 acquis to a trial period of five years for starting grants for village communities and so on. When does Minister Eriksson intend to ensure that the investigation comes to Parliament's table, so we can discuss some workshop here and not just use political rhetoric?
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-559	Madam President, I would like I would like to say that raising the housing allowance for those with the lowest pensions is not just political rhetoric. Nor is it the reduction of the tax, even if it is true, as Mrs Ann-Britt says, that some people who previously suffered a higher tax than employees did so because of other things that had to do with what pension agreements they had. But those who suffered a higher tax than employees are now getting rid of that injustice and are therefore getting a little more money in their wallets. And it is not just rhetoric, it is about fairly important money for those who have a lower pension. Now there will be a reduction for those with pensions up to $15,000 a month. The following year we remove the last remnants of the extra tax that pensioners have had. I think it's a good and important thing. The issue of investment aid is also important because it enables the construction of new housing at reasonable cost. We make a requirement that the rent should not be too high, and the Moderates want to remove that. I find it strange if you are seriously committed to finding more housing for those who need it, for pensioners who may need an elevator and need a little better financial space to manage to stay and have a decent home in the future. That is why I still hope that the commitment shown by Ann-Britt Ann-Britt also comes true in Moderate politics and that it is not so bad in the future.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-563	Madam President, I would like Johan Forssell has asked me whether it is my intention and the Government's intention to take legislative initiatives aimed at moving away from today's system in such a way that asylum seekers who have arrived in Sweden before a certain time should have their asylum application examined on the basis of their previous age and not the age they have today. The Government announced on 27 November 2017 a proposal for regulatory changes to the Temporary Act, which essentially means that a person who has applied for asylum as an unaccompanied minor by 24 November 2015 and who has waited 15 months or longer for a decision and who has received, or would otherwise receive, an expulsion decision may be granted a temporary residence permit for studies at upper secondary level in certain cases. An application for such a residence permit shall be submitted within three months of the entry into force of the provisions and may only be made on one occasion. The announced proposal therefore does not mean that an asylum seeker should have his/her asylum application examined on the basis of his/her previous age, but that he/she will be given a new residence permit to a limited group of unaccompanied minors whose residence permit opportunities have been greatly reduced due to the processing times of the Migration Agency. The intention is to refer a draft legislative referral shortly to the relevant authorities and organisations. The details will be specified in the draft. A prerequisite for the announced proposal with legislative changes concerning this defined group to enter into force is that there is support for the proposal in the Riksdag.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-567	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. This is an old interpellation. I put it in November in the light of a number of ambiguities in the government's line with regard to the unaccompanied. These ambiguities were that, on the one hand, the Social Democrats were clear on a number of principles concerning this group, while the Green Party was equally clear with the very opposite. This raised questions about what the government saw in front of it. At the end of November last year, the government presented this bill, and there are still many ambiguities, both in terms of design, which will well clarify in due course, and the reasons the government has for presenting this proposal. The background is that a lot of people came to Sweden in a short time in 2015, not least in the group of unaccompanied minors. I believe that about half of all unaccompanied minors in the EU came to Sweden this year. We now have a number of problems with this. These are long processing times, many do not have ID with them and, moreover, do not have all the reasons for protection. It's as simple as that. However, migration policy is not simple, but rather very difficult. It affects many people in a clear way. If we are to succeed in navigating in this environment, we need to have a number of clear principles to lean on. The most important is the following: If you have protection reasons and are a refugee, you must be granted a residence permit and quickly get into integration efforts and all that. If you do not have protection reasons and are not a refugee, the main rule is that you should return to your home country. This is based on a regulated migration policy. Someone may think that this sounds harsh. At the same time, record numbers of people are fleeing the world over, and if we are to provide protection to at least some of these, we need to keep to the principle of an individual asylum trial, which focuses on the grounds of protection. Madam President, I would like I understand that the Moderates have agreed on this with the Social Democrats for quite a large part of this term of office, with the Prime Minister's predecessor Morgan Johansson and also with Heléne Fritzon in the autumn. As recently as October, the Minister for Migration made it clear: the government's opinion is very clear. I believe that it is not possible for everyone to stay. An exception would mean a significant departure from the right of asylum. In response to a direct question whether the government considered such a change that has now been presented, the answer was: I believe that it is not possible. Then we would abandon regulated immigration. We would also be out of the question for asylum reasons. Then something happened. In just a month the government chose to make a 180-degree turn. The Minister of Migration chose to depart from what had been said earlier and present this legislation. I wonder what it was in Sweden that changed so much in November that the Minister for Migration was prepared to shake up all its previous principles and make this 180-degree turn. I know there are problems with long processing times and many open cases, but that was also a problem in October. What was it that in just a month caused the government to make a 180-degree turn?
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-577	Madam President, I would like It is good that Johan Forssell has put this interpellation. It is also good that we are constantly following developments in the area of migration, including in the debates in the Swedish Parliament. We agree on the background. The exceptionally high number of asylum seekers who arrived in Sweden in 2015 has put great strain on both the Swedish asylum system and the social system. It was urgent and important that the government took a number of measures. It was also good that the government, together with parties in the Riksdag, including the Moderates, signed the special agreement on migration policy. It is there, and it means that we are clearly protecting the right of asylum together, I hope. Perhaps Johan Forssell has stumbled a little on how the Moderates view the right of asylum during the autumn debate. It is also important that we together safeguard the value of having work for shorter processing times. In response to Johan Forssell : What the government has seen during the autumn is that we have not succeeded in shortening the processing times to the desired extent. It is moving in the right direction, but it is moving far too slowly. We have a limited group that has had to wait a very long time. The precondition for the proposal put forward by the government is that one should have waited at least 15 months. But in this group there are those who have waited much longer. This is the reason why the government is proposing a temporary measure for a limited group. This means that no changes are made to the right of asylum or to its application. What Johan Forssell often says about a no being a no and that a rejection is a rejection is of course still valid for the government.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-583	Madam President, I would like I'm getting totally taken. The minister says a no is a no. But a 'no' is not a 'no', which is the very point of the legislation presented by the government. The point is that people who have received a "no" should still be granted a residence permit. There's no other way to describe it. That is the very meaning of what the government has presented. The Minister should be careful to say that others stumble, because this cannot be reconciled. It's even messier than I thought. The best arguments against this legislation are those put forward by the Minister for Migration himself in October, a month before the government turned 180 degrees. It is about the perception of individual asylum procedures, the right to asylum and the long-term perspective. We must learn something from the mistakes of this parliamentary term. The Moderates have not always handled migration 100% correctly, and those who have followed the debate in recent years have not been able to miss the fact that I have pointed this out several times. But look at how the government has dealt with this issue! First, the Prime Minister stood in Sergel's square and said that his Europe does not build walls. A few weeks later, he said there would be identification checks and asylum legislation at the EU's lowest level. In October, the Minister for Migration said that this will not be possible, because it would undermine the right of asylum and not be long-term. A few weeks later, she does the opposite. I'm sorry, but it doesn't inspire confidence, and it's problematic. It is problematic for all those who are asylum seekers not to know what applies. The best before that seems to be just a few days. It is also problematic for authorities, civil society, municipalities and county councils that never get any clear planning conditions. Madam President, I would like In addition, there are some fundamental objections. First of all, how reasonable is it that a person who is an adult in the asylum process should be judged as a child? In principle, no age assessments were carried out in 2015. Many unaccompanied ones also had no ID. As a result, there is a great deal of uncertainty about age. That's the age you've stated it's all about. Today, thanks to the medical age assessments that are now taking place, we know that in many cases a correct age has not been stated, sometimes because you may not know what age you have but in other cases because you have deliberately gone with untruth to increase the likelihood of staying. This is what gets so strange: A person who has come to Sweden, who has applied for asylum and received no and who has complied with the law and gone home should not be subject to the legislation. However, a person who has applied for asylum but who has not complied with the law but in violation of the laws in force has lingered will be covered by the law, if I have interpreted it correctly. Not only do we have a bill that does not encourage people to do the right thing, but we have a bill that encourages people to do wrong and not comply with laws and regulations in Sweden. Where, the Minister of Migration, is justice in that?
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-595	Madam President, I would like I start the line shift that Johan Forssell chose to do, namely by going a few years back in time. At that time Johan Forssell belonged to a government foundation that thought that the whole of Sweden should open its hearts. Then something happened in 2015 that allowed us together to take responsibility for migration policy. I think that is basically a good thing. I also think it might be nice to have some self-examination at Johan Forssell. I don't think Forssell is entirely alien because the discussion is about how we should take responsibility for that a lot of people have waited a long time. I know that in the bourgeois party grouping at least the Center Party has expressed this on a number of occasions, and I think it has also reached Johan Forssell. I will clarify the background to the Government's proposal: It is that a great many have waited a very long time. You must have applied for asylum by 24 November 2015 and waited for more than 15 months, you must have had your asylum application examined under the temporary law, you must assume responsibility for studies and you must be in the country when the application is submitted. If you do this, you can get a temporary residence permit. So it is a limited group and a temporary measure, and this does not change anything in the asylum law that, I hope, we agree on now and will apply now and in the future. You can only make this application once. I am convinced that Johan Forssell can also take part in and understand that there is a reality outside that we politicians must take responsibility for listening to, understanding and trying to find solutions for. That is what the government is doing with this proposal. I hope that when we come back soon with a proposal or a legislative referral in the first turn, we can have a good discussion about what the support looks like in the Swedish Parliament to take a temporary measure for a limited group that has waited for a very long time.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-600	Madam President, I would like I also hope for a good discussion. If we are to have it, I hope that the government can also answer the questions that are being asked. I've asked you two questions here. What changed between October and November? What the Minister of Migration thought in October was completely out of the question and would undermine the right of asylum, not be long-term etcetera is apparently, since November, exactly what is needed and required. I agree that this is a problem with long processing times. There are too many open cases, but there were in October as well. What has changed in Sweden in just one month? It takes on credibility when a minister first says one thing with great conviction and then next month, with the same conviction and without being able to present what has changed in Sweden, says the opposite. It is probably no stranger than that the explanation for this is that the Green Party has a very great influence, perhaps greater than the Minister for Migration, on the government's migration policy. Apparently, the Social Democrats are prepared to compromise everything – all their principles and all the words about long-termism – to hold the government together. As I began by saying, migration policy is not simple – it is difficult. I therefore believe that there must be a number of principles to lean against. The principle that is most important is that if you have protection reasons and are a refugee, you should be granted a residence permit and quickly get into integration efforts and various reforms to become part of our Sweden – people's new home country. But if you don't have it, you should go home. I hope that the government will take this opportunity to answer all the questions surrounding this legislation in the future.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-606	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking Johan Forssell for the question. I look forward to our continued discussions on the proposal. It is not that the Minister for Migration has changed his mind between October and November. Let's take this very carefully: the right of asylum is firmly established – I hope it is understood. A yes is a yes, and a no is a no. I was not asked in October about the concrete proposal to offer a temporary solution for a limited group to join upper secondary school studies and be able to apply on one occasion. What I was asked about were larger units such as amnesty etc. and changing the right of asylum. There I still have exactly the same view as in October: that is not the case. Johan Forssell says that the Social Democracy has compromised. I think it is a strength to belong to a large party that can cooperate, cooperate, compromise and make agreements. I look forward to our being able to do this in the future as well. Migration policy deserves broad solutions in the Swedish parliament. I hope that another slightly larger party wants to join in taking this responsibility, following reality and daring to take part in making decisions. Thank you very much for the question and the debate.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-611	Madam President, I would like Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked the Minister for Housing and Digitalization how he views the proposal in the report Rental Market without black trade and unauthorised subletting and criminalising the purchase of rental contracts. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The investigation into measures against trade in rental contracts has been commissioned by the Government to propose measures to prevent unlawful compensation for rental apartments. The report of the study shows that illegal trade is a major source of money, is based on advanced approaches and is linked to organised crime. The illegal trade in rentals is very damaging. It makes the rental market malfunction and makes it more difficult to get a rental apartment. It affects individual applicants who do not pay unlawful compensation, and it undermines trust in the rental right. This is something the government wants to deal with. The report is currently in the process of being consulted. The government does not want to take a position on whether the criminalisation of purchases is the right way to go before we have received the views of the referral bodies. However, I note that the parties to the rental market, the Tenants' Association, Sabo and the Property Owners, support the investigator's proposal, including the proposal to criminalise the purchase of rental rights. The investigation's proposal means that account should be taken of the mitigating circumstances that may exist. According to the proposal, a person who pays a small sum for a rental contract and who has a very great need for housing should not be penalised. This should often be the case for the students and young people mentioned by Jesper Skalberg Karlsson. On the other hand, the proposal means that anyone who pays large amounts for a rental contract and perhaps hires a black broker and gives false information to the landlord and before the authorities should be able to be punished for it. As I said, the government will have to come back to what measures should be taken to tackle the black trade and whether the criminalisation of purchases is the right way to go. Meanwhile, the government continues to pursue an active housing policy with many different measures that result in more housing for people with different needs. The investment aid introduced by the Government in order to promote the supply of new student housing and rental housing for a lower rent has produced results. Housing construction is at very high levels. More than 10 000 homes have been granted investment aid – homes that will benefit many, including young people, when they have been completed.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-618	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. Nevertheless, I have to dwell on the debate on the previous interpellation, when the Government said things like: Open your hearts, and then what happened? She does so in an attempt to paint the Moderates as an inconspicuous party. I remember the 2014 election campaign. I know that Carl Bildt, Anders Borg and Fredrik Reinfeldt in almost every speech during the spring and summer mentioned that we see large flows of refugees on their way to Sweden, that it will cost a lot of money and that it will require that we reconsider some policies. Every time they said that, the Prime Minister said, you run the racists' errands. Then came the election, and the Alliance lost. What was the first thing the government did? Yes, the Ministry of Migration was abolished. In 2015 something happened. Then the Social Democrats tried to say that it was the policy of the Moderates that they had to reconsider. But it was Göran Persson's foreign law that applied during almost the entire alliance period. If the Government wants to beat her chest over having a closed heart and not an open one, it is up to her. Madam President, I would like Now I'm going to talk about this interpellation. The Swedish rental market is not working well. Everyone who has applied for a rental dwelling in one of our big cities knows that. The government also seems to have realised this, as it is said explicitly in the answer. A criminalising the purchase of rental contracts may seem attractive if you want to be powerful and show that you are doing something. But the background is that current legislation is not being complied with. Then the question of a new law is the solution to the problem. I could imagine that if there is a problem with upholding a law, you might look into whether the police should have new tools to curb these crimes. Perhaps more resources are given to the police to curb these crimes. Maybe you give the police more colleagues. Instead, the government is looking at whether it should be made illegal to buy these contracts. I can tell you a little secret. Of course, it is tempting to show yourself capable of action by making new laws, preferably if you are a legislative assembly. But new legislation is not always the only and best answer, preferably not when politics itself has created the original problem. Madam President, I would like Today, rents are kept artificially low and even. The same size apartments with approximately the same level of equipment should cost about the same amount. If we look at Stockholm then an apartment inside customs and an apartment 20 miles outside customs costs about the same amount. Who, then, can have these centrally located dwellings? Yes, they are the ones who have lived long and therefore have many days of queues, that is, older ones. Sweden's young people and students who haven't lived so long and who therefore can't have so many queue days may take apartments that you don't need to have so many queue days to get. If you keep the rents on the same level, it will be a situation where the apartments in the city cost less than they had with market rents, and the apartments outside the city cost more than they had with market rents. This means that young people subsidise elderly people's housing centrally. In a way, it becomes completely unreasonable. It is partly the authors of this report that is why it is so. The Social Democrats and Tenants' Association are blocking important reforms for a more free renting that would be more fair to Sweden's young people and would create investment space to build more. Is it not strange, then, to illegalize that young people and students are simply trying to solve the problem themselves?
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-628	Madam President, I would like Initially, you may be a little unsure whether the interpeller knows what interpellation he actually wrote. I welcome the continuation of the debate on migration policy, but perhaps we can come back in such an interpellation debate. I will now devote the time to discussing Jesper Skalberg Karlsson's interpellation, which is about criminalising the purchase of rental contracts. As I said in my answer, it has been a broad investigation. There is also a broad set-up by the parties to the rental market. The interpellant mentions the Tenant's Association in particular. But there are also Sabo and private Property Owners. They support the investigator's proposal, including the proposal to criminalise the purchase of rental rights. I have said here today that the government has not taken a stand. The government will now analyse the proposal and wait for the consultation work. However, there are of course arguments both for and against, precisely in the part dealing with the criminalisation of purchases. It is, of course, a very important analytical work to be done. There may be general preventive reasons in favour of criminalising the purchase of rental apartments. In fact, it seems to have been accepted in broad social groups that it is ok to act in that way. Those who are the victims of the completely illegal apartment trade are not really the buyers but, above all, the people who are in different housing queues and who act on the basis of a regime that we have decided that we should actually have in order to search for a home and who in this way are evaporated apartments by another trade going on elsewhere, where people, because they have a lot of money, can act to get ahead in the queue to get an apartment. Then, of course, there are also serious reasons against. This applies to buyers, as the interpellier expresses, who have a great need for a dwelling and who find themselves in an inferior position with regard to the seller. That is why the investigator has also looked at different levels of punishment in the event that this proposal is advanced. The investigator has also looked at how exceptions could be made in cases where there has been little and where the applicant considers that he has no alternative to obtaining a dwelling other than to try to buy a rental apartment in this way. So there are degrees here. There I look forward to the consultation work and the input and views that come out both in the consultation work and from the political parties when we then proceed with any proposals.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-635	Madam President, I would like The government does not want to say yes or no if the government wants to send students to prison. It's a little uncomfortable. It is mentioned in the interpellation response that this would only happen if, for example, false information is given to a landlord or to authorities. However, I still think that there is quite a difference of degree from there to systematically brokering contracts on the black market. That is so to say, the difference between apples and pears. Madam President, I would like Another point mentioned in the interpellation response is investment aid and investment aid will solve the problems in the rental and housing markets. I can also find it a little strange to raise this in a debate on these possible new legislative changes. The effectiveness of investment aid is far from obvious. The additionality, i.e. the number of homes built that would not have been built without investment aid, is not properly investigated. I agree to build a lot in Sweden, and I agree that there is investment aid. However, it does not have to be the case that one automatically leads to the other, even if it happens at the same time. It is also mentioned in the interpellation response that many student housing is being built. Yes, it does, but the question is how many student housing could have been built if the government hadn't emptied Akademiska Hus for over 5 billion in 2015. Then there would have been quite a lot more money to build student housing for. Madam President, I would like In several ways, Sweden's young people have been disadvantaged by the regulations surrounding the rigid housing market. Low inflation, new amortisation requirements and increased regulation of the credit market are disadvantageous to young people who have little capital and want to buy a home. At the same time, we have the Tenants' Association and the Government, which ensure a lease regulation that closes young people out. I do not quite understand how it can be the fault of young people that they are affected by a dysfunctional housing market. At this point, it feels like you're trying to illegalize symptoms but you're not looking at the disease from the start. It's kind of tone-deaf. In a welfare country like Sweden, no student should have to turn down the dream education or the dream job because there are no housing. The housing shortage actually puts a lot of sticks in the wheel. But isn't this an excellent opportunity to make the structural reforms needed to achieve increased and efficient construction in a boom? To come up with proposals that could put someone in jail for two years when the person really just wants to sit on the school bench-- isn't that very strange? If this is the case, then the government must at least have an opinion, even if one can hide behind the fact that others have felt that way in the past.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-642	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by objecting to the provocative wording that there would be a government that wants to send students to prison. In that case, I think the same question can be put to those who have been included in the proposal at the moment. Would the interpellant ask that question to Real Estate owners, who think this is a good proposal? Does the interpellant really believe that the property owners support the proposal because they want to send students to prison? I think we can have a slightly better tone in the debate. There is one measure that is more important than anything else in order to have a well-functioning housing market, and that is to build more housing. In 2017, there were in Sweden, out in all municipalities, planned and started settlements in the form of over 75,000 new homes. My question is: How many dwellings were built during the civil reign years, when the Moderates led the government work? The single most important solution in housing policy is that more housing is built. This applies to the population in general but especially to those young people who – when they are students or are going to apply for their first job – should be able to get what in Swedish society is a right, namely to have their own housing. That issue is important, and I would like us to continue to discuss it. Then it is possible to find different solutions to this. That may be what the investigation proposes, and the government will consider it. As I said, there are arguments and arguments against. When it comes to the group that the interpellant focuses on, the students, I know many good examples – not least from the municipality I come from – where the municipality can go in and, together with the university, actively formulate a housing guarantee. It then tries in every way, through both the private property owners and the municipal housing company, to live up to being a host municipality for students. There are many good examples of how to attract such growth and development in a municipality because you actually think it is important that we have students. I would like to say that there is no municipal chairman in this country who wants to imprison students because they do not have housing. Both the government and our municipalities lead a work where it is extremely important to create good conditions for young people to get their first residence. There I think that the investigator has presented many interesting and exciting suggestions on how to both build more housing in the future and find active measures to prevent people from engaging in an unhealthy market where contracts for housing are bought or sold.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-647	Madam President, I would like It is the government that is to present a proposal at the Riksdag table, so it is reasonable to ask the government what it thinks – not the Property Owners. However, if Heléne Fritzon is absolutely convinced that the real estate owners are 100% behind the whole report, it will have to stand for her. The fact that we have a large building in Sweden today is good, but I think you do yourself a disservice if you think that it is things the government did last year that have made it that way. The detailed planning process often takes ten years from idea to finish, and I think it was another government that was in power ten years ago. Madam President, I would like Sweden has tested to have a regulated rental market where supply and demand do not meet. It leads to queues, it leads to poor allocation and it leads to lock-in effects. The government has been in a golden position for structural reforms during a fiery boom. Instead, the focus has been on raising taxes on labour and financing extended benefit schemes. It is problematic that the rental market is working as badly as it is – I agree with the government – but we should focus on the structural problems in the rental market rather than on proposals to try to save laws that are currently not being enforced with new legislation. It should, as it were, be a priority to target those who sell the black contracts, which is already illegal, rather than chasing after those who have suffered from a dysfunctional rent market and housing policy.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-651	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the interpeller for the question of young people's access to housing and the possible criminalisation of the purchase of rental contracts. It is an important issue, and it is urgent. I look forward to continuing both debates and talks on this important subject. In my last speech, however, I must take this opportunity to correct the interpeller on one point. It is possible that a comprehensive master plan could take ten years. I've been doing this for quite a few years of my life. If you have a well-functioning master plan, it is much easier to manage detailed plans. It is with good cooperation between the national level – the government, the state and the municipalities – and active developers that it is being built. It's only done when these three parts work. They work now, and it is built as never before in Sweden. This also applies not only to what was planned for 2017, but also to full planning for 2018. It is the best investment in young people's lives and in young people's opportunities to get the first job, study at a higher education institution and create a future. I look forward to the investigation's proposals, and I look forward to the consultation round and the input that comes from the consultation work. I also look forward to the debate between the political parties on how we can jointly take responsibility for continuing this growth in Sweden.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-654	Madam President, I would like Ola Johansson has asked me how I view the criticism that has been directed at the government, among others, by the Swedish National Audit Office, and when strong measures will be taken to reform the system of good men. The order of good men and stewards is based on individuals in all parts of society taking on a mission that represents an important contribution for a fellow human being. In order to ensure the legal certainty and equal treatment of individuals and to ensure that citizens have confidence in the system, it is essential that supervision is effective and of high quality. It is therefore worrying that there are shortcomings in supervision. After all, the role of stand-by representatives is essentially aimed at protecting the most vulnerable people in society. As soon as the shortcomings in supervision were noted, the government began work to gather knowledge of which measures can best solve the problems we see in this area. Among other things, the government gave a mandate to the county boards concerned to improve supervision. We have begun to see the effects of this work, not least by the fact that the county boards have intensified their cooperation in the area of supervision. We must do everything we can to prevent suffering or harm to already vulnerable people. That is why we must also be sure that the measures that we are moving on with actually solve the problems that exist. Speeding up decisions which, at worst, have the opposite effect is out of the question. I welcome the Swedish National Audit Office's recent report on the supervision of transfer guardians and deputies. During the spring, the Government will present its assessment of the observations and recommendations made by the Swedish National Audit Office in the report in a letter to the Riksdag. I do not want to anticipate this work, but of course the Swedish National Audit Office's report is an important piece of the puzzle in the process of change. It will be a valuable basis when the government takes a position on what measures may need to be taken. That is my initial answer.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-661	Madam President, I would like It was in the light of the stinging criticisms of the Swedish National Audit Office and its proposals that I chose to ask once again what measures the government intends to take to investigate, reform or review the system of good men. The system is based on legislation from 1924 – only a few years after real democracy was introduced in Sweden and women were allowed to vote in general elections. The concept of good man is perhaps synonymous with the view of the past on poor care and how the small municipalities of that time functioned. A great responsibility was taken by elected representatives in caring for the most vulnerable. The fact that this is fundamentally based on non-profit deeds is, in our opinion, a good thing and something that we should guard against. This does not mean, however, that we should turn a blind eye to the difficulties arising from the increasing complexity of the needs of the principals – i.e. the needy – and the creation of a new group of unaccompanied young refugees, as well as the fact that the average age of good men is getting high and that it is becoming more difficult to recruit these important missions. If there is something that characterises the activities, it is the differences and the different conditions. There are many who bear witness to order and a great deal of commitment among good men and stewards, who are of great benefit to the vast majority of the very vulnerable people who depend on support and help. I am full of respect and admiration for the enormous work that is being done on a non-profit basis. There are 94,000 so-called deputies around the country. These are linked to 230 transfer guardian units, which together manage assets of SEK 41 billion for 123,000 people, which corresponds to 2 percent of the population. It is about guarding the right, caring for the person and managing property. It is a task performed for a limited remuneration, which is deducted from the principal's income. The assignment is carried out for persons who have a severe disability and have no decision-making capacity. These people are adults who have no other opportunity to have their will satisfied than by another person. Madam President, I would like It is not only the Swedish National Audit Office and a majority of the Swedish Parliament that require a review. Already this spring there was a request to the government from the Swedish Municipalities and County Council to review the rules for transfer guardians, good men and trustees. That is why, Madam President, I bounced not only because of the Government's lack of information but also because of the choice of words. For example, the Swedish National Audit Office's report is described as a piece of the puzzle. I buy a 1000-bit puzzle for Christmas for my next of kin understand that no puzzle, regardless of its motif and size, will be complete without the only and last piece. But to name the report as such is to make it less important than it actually is. If I were a national accountant, I would not have liked such a serious, factual, well-founded and sincere criticism to be minimized in this way. It is also the case that statistics are lacking in this area, which means that the activities of all sides are in the dark. The greatest darkness in this context stands for the government itself when, despite criticism, it does not act. Excuse me. I'm bouncing around. I shall conclude my speech here and come back to you after the reply.
i-X56TaDETzxaozWZ8ABiJ7u	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I would like to start by saying that I think it is still a step on the way that the county boards should not work separately, but that instead they should coordinate the whole thing via a county board. The Government said in its response to Ola Johansson that it should not rush decisions – in the worst case, this could have the opposite effect. But the assignment that has been given to the County Administrative Board in Dalarna includes a whole package of solutions to grasp this whole problem, which becomes quite clear. Last spring, 2017, I visited Falun in connection with the assignment to the County Administrative Board. At that time we discussed social change, which was also discussed by Ola Johansson, and the legislation of 1924, where there is an entire chapter that actually puts adult people under guardianship. We no longer live in that world. At my house we had Saint Maria, who was shut down and closed down in the 1990s. We no longer have these institutions, but we have people in society, which requires more of us all. I would like to say how important it is to really get a grip on this and get it legally secure for all those involved in the system – for good men, for transferers and, above all, for the principals, who depend on all of us for help and support. In Norway, as has been referred to, there is a model of professional good men. The Swedish National Audit Office is also looking at how to coordinate this through an authority and that you need to review the legislation in order to do so. It would be interesting to hear how the government views the Norwegian model, as a thought in the whole. Getting this whole package makes a difference if you compare what you can get by looking at the whole picture with picking parts. If you take parts, it becomes pieces of the puzzle, which Ola Johansson was into. If you're going to take it all, it's important to get the whole grip. I cannot stress enough how important I think it is to include all the elements that have been seen in investigations need to be taken care of. It is important that the principals can feel confident that things are going right. Good men who do a good job should be able to feel safe with it. This is based on the voluntary approach we have been talking about. These are sometimes really tough missions that these people have. The data cannot always be solved, and in the worst case, people can end up on the street as homeless people. It's a fantastic job to support and help these people – it can't be stressed enough. We feel great gratitude to those people who today commit themselves to supporting and helping others, just as it started once in the world and then has continued. It is also important for their sake that we protect those who do a great job and who deserve all respect for it. Unfortunately, too many of those who do not look at their house today lack insurance to be able to do so. It is voluntary to join an association, but I do not think it really understands what it means to have this commitment, which can put you in trouble. I think that sometimes this can discourage people from taking these missions, and that should not be the case. That is why these people must be protected in different ways. The person who needs help should be able to protect and have confidence in the prosecution of crimes. Anyone who does a good job should feel safe with their mission. It is therefore important that there are clear procedures whereby those who are prepared to take advantage of people in need of help and support do not get away with violating. They should not be able to commit crimes in this area. There have been a lot of TV spots about how it has been done.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-684	Madam President, I would like I start by turning to Ola Johansson. It was not my intention to minimize the criticism and report of the Swedish National Audit Office with an imagery. Rather, it is about the picture that a real puzzle actually never gets finished without the absolutely most important last piece. You can see it in different ways. Apart from this, I am of course very pleased that we agree on the valuable contribution that a very large number of people daily in Sweden make as good men and stewards. The work of supporting a fellow human being in a vulnerable situation is, of course, extremely important for a well-functioning society. I'm just as upset as the interpeller that it happens that deputies are mismanaging their mission. When those images come in media reporting, many of us are sad, disappointed and upset. It is unacceptable for people in vulnerable situations to suffer the loss of assets or to be deceived when they experience and believe that someone is helping them. I do not value the measures that the government intends to come back with, but we still seem to have the same picture of how we view the issue of the voluntary effort, the non-profit element, versus the professionalisation of goodwill. So far, I think it is an advantage of good men that they are also locally anchored, that they are available to the individual, often after office hours. There are great advantages in feeling secure in getting help with both personal and financial matters, and that should be done in a relationship where you feel safe with those who enter and are part of your own important decision-making. We will come back to the whole issue. SKL was mentioned here. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson has also made a valuable contribution to the interpellation debate. She stressed the value of a well-functioning operation for good men, not least for those for whom good men are. During the spring, my predecessor Morgan Johansson called representatives of county boards and SKL. It then described, among other things, the problems of supervision. Then came the County Administrative Board's report during the autumn. We can see that cooperation in the area of supervision has become much better. We also see that the efforts and investments in education are an important part of this. However, further measures are needed, and work is under way from the government's side now based on both the County Administrative Board's report and the National Audit Office's report. We collect knowledge about what measures are most needed in the future.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-691	Madam President, I would like Let's stick to the puzzle metaphor. If a puzzle is to be laid, an overview is also needed. The National Auditor believes that we lack the motive that is on the lid of the box. Responsibility is now laid out on seven different, perhaps large, pieces. V i can call them county boards. The pieces also consist of 290 municipalities, together with 230 guardian activities – not to mention all the thousands of users. A small part of the matter is perhaps the government's responsibility so far. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Parliament decided in March 2017, almost a whole year ago, on an announcement that the government was urged to take the initiative as soon as possible to follow up the functioning of the legislation on transfer guardians, good men and managers and to consider other improvements to the system. Now the Government said, "A tt hastily put forward decisions which, in the worst case, have the opposite effect is not relevant." ..................................................... To propose an investigation, as the National Auditor does, as does the Swedish Municipalities and County Council, as a majority in the Swedish Parliament, is not to rush forward, Madam President. It is to get a picture that gives the opportunity to point out a way forward. But this uses the Government as a motive for not acting, even though there have been repeated debates and repeated criticisms from SKL and now from the National Audit Office. Madam President, I would like It would be peace and joy if there were only one piece of the puzzle missing. Then we would not have to have these discussions time and again in this House. Unfortunately, there are the isolated examples of embezzlers who lack competence for their assignment and who do not submit complete reports on time. There are guardians who go on their knees and who, for fear of missing deputies, do not dare to make legitimate demands on them, nor are they able to re-cruit as good men leave, perhaps for age reasons. This is because seven of the government's designated county boards have failed to follow up and provide support to transfer guardians. That is why the Pension Authority, Kronofogden and Finansinspektionen have entered. It is because the municipalities would rather turn to each other and to the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils for advice and support than to the seven county boards. Now there are also the unaccompanied children. They have become a new responsibility within the system. It is a group that has very special needs. It is because there is a lack of statistics in this area that the activities at all levels are in the dark. The greatest darkness stands for the government, which, despite criticism, does not act. The part that we can possibly spare is the part that the government could have added if we had addressed the issues in time.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-696	Madam President, I would like I'll start with the pictures rolled up by the principals who get hurt. There is an example from Facebook, where a woman writes: I cry with joy. Sometimes David beats Goliat. I won the first round against my mother's steward. The house he sold far below market value to himself via fronts in collusion with the broker was rejected by the transferer. The house still belongs to the family. It is important that good men's and stewards' thefts are reported to the police. This has often not happened. People who are in a position of dependence with those who are going to help them and with whom they should feel safe cannot report and get right on the matter. It has also happened that people move from municipality to municipality without telling each other that there are problems. Then new people are in trouble. When we turn off the TV, turn off the radio or put the paper together, they're still there. That's the tragedy. I also have the same question that Ola Johansson asked. The Government says that you should take advantage of both the County Administrative Board's report and the report from the Swedish Audit Office. Will these measures be presented as a whole, or will they be picked out? What do they become of this? What is important is the whole issue of legal certainty, coordinators, overall, operational supervision, legitimacy, personal resources, coordinated training and advice and support. The list can be made long. This needs to be held together in one place in the country, and it should be done on a legal basis so that people do not get hurt in different ways.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-701	Madam President, I would like I note that last year the County Administrative Board's report was available from early autumn. Just before Christmas, we received the Swedish National Audit Office's report. We are debating today, in January after the Christmas break, the value of further action. This is an issue that has involved not only the Riksdag. Just as the interpellant and Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson express, the question involves both the Riksdag and many other different actors, including the municipalities. This has been the case for a long time. The examples that have been presented in the media where the mission was not carried out but actually mismanaged, and we were told an example now, have led to a number of actions. As early as 2007, an initiative was taken to enable municipalities to work together by setting up a joint guardian board. This created good conditions for not least the smaller municipalities, which may have had difficulty organising such an activity in their own municipality. Much of the collaboration was also built up for a more rational management. The following year, 2008, the county administrative boards' supervisory responsibilities were strengthened. Regular supervision of all transfer guardians was introduced and annual inspections were carried out. I am now talking about a bourgeois government. Many different initiatives have been taken under different government responsibilities. Changes were made in 2009 to reduce the risk of abuse of the individual's assets and to strengthen public supervision. The transferor was given the opportunity to freeze certain financial assets when there is a suspicion that there has been no right to do so. It also improved the rules on the transferor's access to information. I have followed this, even during my time as Commissioner. I have seen the work of change and seen how important it is to tighten up the requirements and organisation around the transfer office and good men, and I know that many municipalities work actively with this. In 2012, supervision was concentrated on seven county boards. This was done with a view to improving supervision. In 2015, rules on statistics on the activities of transfer societies were introduced. There, the Swedish National Audit Office goes even further and wants to see more of the statistics and follow-up of this. These are proposals that we will have to come back to. In the same year, rules were also introduced to strengthen the verification of the suitability of those appointed as deputies for the mission. There are tools to find out what the suitability is for the person to perform such an important task. Nevertheless, I would like to give a picture of the government – different governments – taking responsibility for ensuring that we have a well-functioning operation with guardians, deputies and good men.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-712	Madam President, I would like I will devote my last two minutes to giving the Center Party a view on this. We are fundamentally in favour of the way in which municipalities take responsibility for their transfer guardian activities. Instead of this activity being included in, for example, the tax-funded social service, we want it to be managed as far as possible by individuals, by fellows. We know that there are many people who basically make a living by being a deputy – there is nothing wrong with that – as there are relatives who spend far more work than they receive compensation for. We know that there are companies offering the services. The area we point out that professionalization is primarily the goodwill of unaccompanied minors – in the first place because it requires other types of government contacts, can be very vulnerable and requires a great understanding of the needs of the principals. We have been in favour of the county boards' responsibilities being concentrated on a small number of county boards, these seven. But we have long felt that a state authority – not a new one, but one of all existing ones – should be identified, taking responsibility for supervisory guidance at the national level. Now that many municipalities are merging their activities and cooperating across borders, it also needs to be clarified what responsibility the RACs and transferers have. We also want to increase the amount of the waiver so that it is possible to obtain higher compensation from the principal to replace the deputy. But, Madam President, these are our starting points. With the description given by the Swedish National Audit Office of how to experience the situation and with the challenges the system faces, we primarily want to see a complete review, a study, that eventually modernises and ensures what we want. I would like to end with a repetition: to propose an investigation, as the National Audit Office and the Center Party do, is not to rush forward. It is to be constructive and proactive and willing to move forward.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-721	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the interpeller Ola Johansson for an important interpellation. I would also like to thank Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson for the debate. This is urgent. I have said during our interpellation debate that I welcome the report of the National Audit Office and the work presented by the county boards, and I can assure the Riksdag that the government takes these issues very seriously. When mismanagement is detected, measures must be taken. The Government will respond to the Swedish National Audit Office's report. We are currently in the middle of the analysis work on the report itself, so we will come back in more detail on how we view it. But I would like to underline what the Swedish National Audit Office says about the importance of having a good overview of what it looks like at national level and what problems exist in this area when these tasks are decided. Without prejudging anything, I would also like to say that legislative measures may be useful, but they will not be the solution to the whole issue. At least as important is of course that transfer guardian activities are prioritised in the municipalities, that they function well and that all actors work together at different levels to develop the operations. I look forward to the continued discussions on how we can move forward with further improvement of the transfer guardian activity. Thank you very much.
i-4gb7g2KbtVToCZC7rYZVfR	Madam President, I would like Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin has asked the Minister for the Environment if, in the framework of her duties, she is working to make possible the kind of decision that the ruling majority in the City of Stockholm took on environmental zones on 16 November last year. Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin has also asked the Minister for Finance what measures she intends to take to ensure that the government policy does not lead to unjustified depreciations in the vehicle fleet, resulting in a problematic credit situation. The work within the government is so divided that it is I who should answer the interpellations. Since the amendments mainly concern the same issue, environmental zones for passenger cars, I choose to answer them in a context. As stated in the 2018 Budget Bill, the Government will implement constitutional changes that enable municipalities to introduce environmental zones for light vehicles. Environmental zones can contribute to improving air quality in urban areas but also contribute to a faster conversion to a fossil-free vehicle fleet. What this framework should look like in detail is now being prepared in the Government Office. I do not want to anticipate this preparation at present, but of course it is very important that the regulatory framework is so designed that it provides a health-friendly urban environment while at the same time providing accessibility for as many people as possible who want to be able to enter the cities. This responsibility will also lie with local politicians who use environmental zones as a tool to reduce local problems with air pollution.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-730	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Infrastructure, for your answer. Not so many years ago, there was political consensus on diesel cars. It was generally considered laudable that more people started to drive diesel cars because diesel cars consumed less fuel than the corresponding cars produced by petrol. It created incentives for people to choose diesel cars. Taxes on diesel cars were reduced. From a relatively low share of diesel cars in the Swedish fleet, we approached the European average, and today more than half of all new cars sold on diesel. It must therefore be understood that people feel some fear and scepticism now that the government and leading red-green politicians declare that in the rather short term they intend to make it impossible to drive a majority of all diesel cars rolling in Sweden today, for example in the capital of Sweden or for that matter in other agglomerations that choose to introduce so-called environmental zones. In November, the red-green-pink majority in Stockholm decided that environmental zones should be introduced from 2020, and in the Government Declaration the Prime Minister declared that municipalities should be able to do this for passenger cars. The question then remains: what will the environmental zone definition contain? I understand that the Minister for Infrastructure feels comfortable not having to answer, because that is a difficult question to answer. For everything else we will have a situation where the environmental zone is defined in the way proposed by the Swedish Transport Agency: Diesel cars and most petrol cars of an older model than in 2014 will not be allowed to travel within the areas defined as environmental zones. Now we have a situation in which the Minister for Infrastructure's party colleagues in the capital of Sweden have decided that the entire inner city of Stockholm will be such an environmental zone. What does this mean in practice? Of course, it is a major problem for all the people who live in the capital and today have a car that is banned from use there. But it also poses a problem for the whole of Sweden: Anyone who has a car and lives outside Stockholm may at some point need to be able to go to the capital in their car. The main problem, however, is the risk of creating a collapse in the value of all vehicles that are banned from one day to the next in large urban areas. This is the reason for one of my interpellations, which we are discussing today: the risk of a financial crisis linked to the sudden change in the rules of the game. This will, of course, affect the value of the large group of cars that are suddenly not allowed to enter Stockholm, for example. I would like to hear the Minister for Infrastructure's answer to this. Is he prepared to push through such a great change, which jeopardises the value of the asset that accounts for the greatest spending in most household economies?
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-738	Madam President, I would like Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin asks me if I think this is a difficult question. I don't think so. It should reasonably be for the Moderates because they have been anything but credible on the issue of diesel cars. It submits interpellations and claims that diesel cars should be banned in the short term – that is not true. Discussion articles are being written, signed by Carl ‐ Oskar Bohlin, who is seriously rogue and frightens people who have diesel cars. I note that neither your spokesperson on the Transport Committee nor your spokesperson on environmental policy signed the debate articles because they were not serious enough. The truth is this, and I will now quote Expressen's leaders: After all, the problems of high NOx emissions from car traffic were exacerbated by the policy of the Alliance Government. First, it chose to bury the Swedish Transport Agency's proposal that municipalities should be allowed to introduce environmental zones where only cars with modern exhaust gas cleaning are allowed to drive. Then the diesel trend was fueled by classifying low-cost diesels as environmental cars and tax-free them, despite the knowledge of the difficult emissions problems. Thus, the leadership side of the Express completely massacres Moderates' position on these issues. Environmental cars were exempted from the congestion tax in 2006–2012. Ethanol and hybrids were rewarded with reduced benefit value by 2012, and between 2007 and 2013 we saw how an environmental car premium was introduced to be replaced by a reduction in car tax and then introduced again while the requirements for reduced tax were changed several times, all during the time of the alliance government. My question to Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin is: How did this affect the secondary value? What responsibility did you take for the complete circus of changes in the regulations for car owners that you implemented the years after you betrayed the Swedish automotive industry by saying that it was basically gone and not strengthening it when faced with the greatest challenges ever? We think more long-term than that. We are based on the work of the Environmental Objectives Committee. In addition, the Moderates support the proposal to introduce environmental zones. When the Swedish Transport Agency presented its proposal, it was supported by both moderate-controlled Stockholm County and the moderatop position in the City of Stockholm. I think it is important that we have broad support for the fact that environmental zones are now being introduced in several European cities and other cities around the world. However, they should be designed in such a way that we both assume to meet the public health concerns, not least in Stockholm with the traffic situation that prevails here, on Hornsgatan and other streets, and meet the reasonable demands of other road users that you have to have predictability in your car purchase and be able to enter the cities, which should be accessible to as many people as possible. That is what I think should guide the work of the government and when we implement the proposals. That is why I have made it clear that we will not implement the Transport Agency's proposal as it is designed, but we will prepare the question in the Government Office. However, I am concerned that the proposal is of such a nature that it can be widely accepted. I am not going to end up in such a situation that the Moderates ended up in: that the conditions for Sweden's car owners were changed every two years. It affected secondary value, to quote Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin, but also made it difficult to predict which instruments we should actually use. I would like us in Sweden to be able to find a more long-term perspective in terms of instruments; I work for this. Now we have, among other things, the preparation of environmental zones, where I think it is a strong wish, even from the Moderates in large parts of the country, for us to have a good regulatory framework.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-746	Madam President, I would like It is an interesting debate strategy from the Minister for Infrastructure to argue on the theme this will not happen; you argue against some form of air castle and are wrong in your assertions. On the other hand, at the same time, he highlights all the arguments put forward specifically for introducing the ban on diesel cars in large cities. There is no intellectually honest way to eat the cake and keep it. The Minister of Infrastructure cannot hold two positions at the same time. That is why we want clarification: will it be a ban or not? The Minister for Infrastructure concludes by saying: we will not go exactly on the Transport Agency's proposal. What proposal will the government make? He confuses, which is of course rhetorically clever, the discussion of environmental zones in a way that is also not very intellectually honest. A distinction should be made between environmental zones at certain times of the day for heavy traffic and what the Swedish Transport Agency is now outlining: to ban more than half the Swedish vehicle fleet from staying in central parts of Stockholm's urban area on a broad front. I dare to say that such a thing would represent a very great value step for the existing fleet of vehicles. Does the Minister of Infrastructure think that the credit that is linked to private car purchases has taken up the height for this, that Stefan Löfven in the Government Declaration would open up to ban this type of diesel cars in Swedish cities by 2020? Because I don't think so. Volvo finance, the largest creditor in the private car market, lends SEK 30 billion a year to the Swedes. The whole financial calculation is based on the fact that there is a value left in the car for a certain time after you have bought it. Does the Minister of Infrastructure believe that in these lease calculations and private loans to people who buy cars, the car from one day to another is banned from entering a big city? I do not believe that, and I therefore appeal to the government: do not go forward with the proposal put forward by the Swedish Transport Agency! The purpose of this interpellation is to get an answer. What way does the government intend to go if it does not choose to go on the proposal put forward by the Swedish Transport Agency?
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-751	Madam President, I would like It is either conscious or unconscious that Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin does not really understand how the design of environmental zones is done. Although I note that both the moderate-led Stockholm County Council and the moderate opposition in the City of Stockholm support the proposal on environmental zones, as well as the fact that the moderates in the 2016 environmental plan approved that we should have environmental zones, this does not mean that we should have environmental zones that include that no one should be able to enter large cities. I believe that most of those who have followed the discussion and read the proposals understand this. It is rhetorical to try to assert this, and also to link it to the change in the value of the car becomes a little ridiculous. That is why I took the example of how the alliance government during its time changed the conditions for car owners eight or nine times. First, the environmental cars were exempt from congestion tax, then it was to be paid. First ethanol and hybrids were subsidised, then environmental car premiums were introduced, which were then replaced by car tax reductions, and then introduced again. How did this affect the secondary value, Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin? I'm still waiting for that answer. Do the Moderates in Stockholm County or Stockholm City think wrong when they support the proposal? I think it is important that we make proposals in a way that takes into account the public health aspects – where Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin, who, as a member of the Swedish Parliament, is responsible for the citizens' being able to have good health, must see the importance of doing something about the particle content that exists in parts of Stockholm. It must be recognised that there is reason for us to take political action, not least after the diesel scandal. At the same time, however, it is self-evident that the design also takes place in a way that is reasonable on the basis of both public health aspects and people's need to enter the city centre. That is why I am concerned when it is so sweepingly said that diesel cars will be banned. Maybe it'll lower the secondary value. I've worked in the Swedish automotive industry. I know the Swedish automotive industry. I work to ensure that we together with the automotive industry in Sweden can manage to change the drivelines. It is good for Sweden that we have a automotive industry that is the world leader when it comes to conversion. Not least now we see how we get electric drivelines. We have managed this through a combination of well-functioning cooperation with the automotive industry, joint research resources and research programmes and also a clear policy that contributes to the transition. That's where you're at the forefront. Therefore, the Swedish automotive industry will be able to cope with electrification of the vehicle fleet, LNG to trucks and other things. That is how politics should work. We must then provide reasonable conditions for this to be achieved. I believe that this dialogue with the automotive industry is important. The government will present when the proposal on environmental zones will be implemented after we have properly prepared the issue in the Government Office. This is a thorough work, in which we need to know the consequences of the regulatory framework that at least the local politicians in Stockholm long to implement. I have not noted that there is equal interest throughout the rest of the country. I see that much of the world is now moving forward with environmental zones – in Berlin and Paris and elsewhere. It is clear that we in Sweden must open up to do this. But then it should be clear what applies. It must combine the objectives of public health with those of accessibility in big cities. This will guide the work of the government.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-759	Madam President, I would like To strengthen environmental zones for heavy traffic in order to remove heavy traffic from the city centres is very different from saying on a broad front that a majority of Sweden's diesel cars will no longer be able to travel smoothly to Stockholm. Let me inform the Minister for Infrastructure about the reality out there right now. Right now, there's a fall in prices. The secondary value of diesel cars drops every day as uncertainty persists. This is the basis for the interpellation. It is not me, the Moderates or the opposition who have created this uncertainty, but it is created by Prime Minister Stefan Löfven in combination with the proposal that has come from the Swedish Transport Agency. If that proposal is implemented, everything else equal, a majority of Sweden's diesel cars are banned from entering what is defined as environmental zones. The City of Stockholm has decided to introduce such an environmental zone from 2020. That is why we are having this debate. It is a question of getting some clarification, so that the group that owns cars of this type should know whether they need to sell their cars or whether it will all land in something more sensible than the proposal that is currently on it lives. The Minister for Infrastructure calls it a ridiculous idea that the secondary value of this type of car would go down. It is an assessment that is not shared by those who give credit in this area. They recommend that people sell their diesel cars. Is this what the Minister for Infrastructure wants to contribute to, or can he give a reassuring message to Sweden's diesel car owners?
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-764	Madam President, I would like The decline in interest in diesel cars and the change in secondary value are more likely to be linked to what is called the diesel scandal, i.e. the fact that a number of vehicle manufacturers were not truthful and manipulated test results, which has led to large damages in Germany and to legal proceedings in other European countries. It is a failure for the European automotive industry that this has not been successfully achieved. It now has long-term consequences and leads to a loss of confidence in vehicle manufacturers and in diesel cars. Those of us who have to deal with this reality must ensure that we have the right tools to get a good environment in traffic and, at the same time, predictability for those who buy a vehicle. Only a few years ago the car you bought was classified as an environmental diesel. It is important to have that balance before we in the government give clear information about the design of environmental zones. I am not going to put forward a discussion about banning all diesel cars, which is the discussion that Mr Bohlin seems to want to have. I also think it would have been nice if Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin had used his time to tell us how the change in value was affected by changes in the taxation of vehicles carried out by the Alliance Government during its time, while at the same time betraying the Swedish automotive industry, letting tens of thousands of people leave the automotive industry and losing strong industrial capacity. Thankfully, we now have another government. We invest in Sweden. The industry is strong in Sweden. The Swedish automotive industry is strong, not least because it meets the climate challenge by developing new, smart engines that meet the environmental requirements of the future. We're going to be the world's first fossil-free welfare country.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-768	Madam President, I would like This interpellation response is designed as a comprehensive response to multiple interpellations. Edward Riedl, a moderate Member, had three interpellations which he withdrew yesterday. This means that the answer I will now read is not only addressed to Saila Quicklund, but is the answer that the government has given to Parliament, and that includes all the interpellations. I think Saila Quicklund also agrees with that. Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl and Saila Quicklund have asked me questions in the field of remote control. Edward Riedl has asked me what I intend to do to counter the increased vulnerability that may arise as a result of the centralisation of air traffic management. Edward Riedl has also asked me how I intend to ensure that safety is not compromised in a shift towards a remote languishing of air traffic controllers and how I believe that an air traffic controller will be able to manage more airports while maintaining security. Edward Riedl has also asked me whether I will review the financial calculation for remote control and what measures I will take if the deal turns out to be unprofitable. Finally, Edward Riedl has asked me what my attitude is towards savings in aviation and whether they should always be sought, however small they may be. Saila Quicklund has asked me how I justify a transfer of air traffic control services from Östersund Airport to Arlanda Airport and that there should no longer be a physical air traffic controller function on site in Östersund. Finally, Saila Quicklund has asked me how I intend to act in relation to the jobs that will disappear with the decision to remotely control the air traffic control at Åre Östersund Airport. Since all the questions asked concern the recently concluded agreement on remote control between Swedavia AB and the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority, I choose to answer them in a context. It is the State-owned company Swedavia AB that owns the airports concerned. Swedavia AB makes decisions on how the company's operations should be conducted. Swedavia AB has a mandate from the owners and operates within the general regulations applicable to state-owned companies in general. The Swedish Civil Aviation Administration performs air traffic control for Swedavia. The Swedish Civil Aviation Authority and Swedavia have signed an agreement for remote air traffic control from a joint centre for the airports in Kiruna, Östersund, Umeå and Malmö. The agreement is based on the assessment that a digital execution of the service benefits the activities of both parties and contributes to the economic objectives of the respective organisation. The agreement means that a facility will be built at Arlanda Airport near Swedavia's operational central and the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration's area control facility and Arlanda Tower. Once the facility is completed, the operations in the respective towers will gradually and over a few years be transferred to the central hub. The agreement between Swedavia AB and the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration has been concluded after a decision has been made on the respective board and after referral to the Swedish Armed Forces. So it is not the government that has taken a decision on the matter. The responsibility for the safe introduction of remote-controlled air traffic control lies with the companies and authorities concerned. The introduction takes place within the framework of current regulations and is subject to the Swedish Transport Agency's approval and supervision. Such an examination is carried out for each individual case. There is therefore no difference in the requirements for the safety of remote control and traditional tower services. Issues of centralisation and regional aspects are important from an overall perspective. The Government's ambition is a Sweden that holds together. I will follow the development of the project for all the five airports concerned within the framework of the public authority dialogue with the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-779	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Infrastructure, for your answer. Yes, that is very true. On 22 November, the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration and Swedavia signed an agreement to remotely control air traffic control at four of Sweden's state-owned airports from Stockholm. Basically, this means that airports in Kiruna, Umeå, Östersund and Malmö become completely dependent on a functioning IT communication between Stockholm and these regions for it to work. The issue has given rise to great concern. We have seen it on editorial pages and in debate articles around the country recently. Many people living in Jämtland County ask questions about this agreement and its consequences. Last night I had invited the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration, Swedavia and Saab to an open meeting in Östersund. 100 people came to the meeting. We were overwhelmed. It shows what a tremendous amount of commitment there is on this issue. Of course, it is about the security aspect and the concerns that exist. But it is also about the centralisation of qualified jobs from the interior of Norrland. To some extent, it creates anger over this. It is also taken into account that the county has very special weather conditions in the vicinity of the mountain world. There can be very rapid weather changes. This is also very different from the other places we are talking about. In addition, the Government of the State Council is now, according to its own statements, working on the relocation of state jobs from Stockholm. Yesterday we were able to take note of what the Prime Minister said: now the centralisation of jobs is over. Yesterday 500 Page jobs were relocated. They are moved between two locations in the Stockholm area. At the same time, a government agency is signing an agreement to move 45 jobs from the countryside to the capital through a project co-financed by EU money. The total number of centralised jobs can, reportedly, exceed 200 in the long term when the full capacity of the centre is achieved. We are also talking about skills that can have a decisive impact on the capacity of these regions to deal with crises by remaining in place. According to the regulation on emergency preparedness and security authorities' actions in the event of increased preparedness, the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority is to reduce the vulnerability of society through its activities and develop a good ability to manage its tasks during peacetime crisis situations and pre- and in case of increased preparedness. My question to the Government will then be: Do we reduce the vulnerability of society if four regions' airports become completely dependent on IT communication with Stockholm to function? This is an extremely important question to which I would like the Minister for Infrastructure to respond.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-787	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Saila Quicklund, for your commitment! I also noted that there had been many at the meeting in Östersund yesterday. I think that is a good thing, because it shows that there is a strong interest and commitment, not least on issues of aviation safety. It is clear that the Swedish Transport Agency will be very careful when examining the projects on the basis of existing criteria. Here there should be no difference in the technology used, but the same tough requirements. There is certainly no doubt either that we in the government have given priority to security issues, including for the reasons that have been proposed. We live in an environment that places higher demands on Sweden to have good safety practices. In addition, there is reason to strengthen our ability to cope with even loss of capacity. It is therefore important that redundancy is increased and that we have secure air traffic management systems. As I understand it, it was one of the reasons why the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration and Swedavia were keen that the Swedish Armed Forces could give their views. The proposal was therefore referred to the Swedish Armed Forces. The Swedish Armed Forces have had views on one of the locations – Visby – but not on the others. Had the Swedish Armed Forces had it, I assume that it would have had a huge impact on the authorities and the company's actions in this context. The government has not tried this, but it is currently a process between the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration and Swedavia. Then it remains for another authority at the government's disposal – the Swedish Transport Agency – to test this. I cannot anticipate the trial that the authorities are carrying out. On the other hand, there is no doubt that safety aspects will be absolutely crucial. This is a conflict of interests which has to do with manning, on the one hand, and the ability of new technologies, on the other, to actually contribute to increased safety or service and increased opportunities. I assume that these are some of the aspects that will be highlighted in the test that is taking place. Then it is no secret that I belong to a government that has had a great emphasis on us being a government for the whole country. It is no longer a matter of centralising activities, but of moving out activities. This has been done to Östersund. There, the Swedish Agency for Growth increases with a number of services. I want to remember that it was about 20. The State Service Office is established. To my hometown Växjö, a government agency is being moved. In this way, we want to ensure that we are the entire Swedish government and that the state is present everywhere. This will undoubtedly be the main line of government policy for a long time to come, because it is important that we ensure government services throughout the country. It is clear that this will be something that both state authorities and state companies have to relate to when they balance their priorities in the future and how they will follow up on the projects in question.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-794	Madam President, I would like I will just make one comment on compensation for job losses. The S-government took away 1,200 jobs in Östersund. It would be compensated. It's never been done. There is not enough of the 20 services that now came to the Swedish Agency for Growth. We hope there will be more. It's up to you to prove it. During the autumn we have seen storms and hurricanes – some names are Harvey, Irma and Ophelia – which have created incredibly large and long-lasting disturbances in electricity and IT connections. Should an event of a similar nature affect Sweden, we risk a rapid breakdown of vital parts. It is also difficult to put crisis aid into the affected regions when we knock out the fastest means of communication. At present, this relationship is mostly informal in nature. Locally located air traffic controllers can still communicate with aircraft using autonomous back-up systems that need to be placed at or near the airport to cover the surrounding area down to ground level. If skills are transferred to another part of the country, these back-up systems will also be dependent on a functioning connection with the new centre. A new source of error is introduced into the system. It may not be a solution suitable for all types of airports or all regions. In the initial position, Visby Airport was also covered by the remote control plans. But the Armed Forces said no to that, and that airport is no longer part of this. Of course, the question now arises as to what applies to the other airports Kiruna, Umeå, Östersund and Malmö from this point of view. The former Minister of Infrastructure Anna Johansson stated earlier that she was in favour of remote air traffic control, that this means that the airport's operations are more efficient and that it creates the conditions for increased safety and coordination. She felt that the new technologies had considerable advantages, not least to safeguard jobs in the regions concerned. I find it hard to understand what she meant. It is, of course, difficult for the Minister to answer it now, but that is how it was put, and it is strange. It is also an unclear and strange answer when the former minister hides behind the argument that Swedavia is an independent company that makes its own decisions. What the Minister does not mention is that in her role as Minister she represents the state, which is also the owner of the company. We have also heard this expression from the current Minister for Infrastructure. Efficiency and economic reasons are behind this project with remote control. But it's all about little money in the big picture. We are talking about 3 1⁄2 million, which is one per mil of the total costs of the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration. My question to the Minister is: how has the overall defence perspective been taken into account? The safety aspect is almost forgotten in the discussions when we only talk about efficiency, cost reductions and so on. The project leads to centralisation and increases the vulnerability of our regions, which is very serious. How does the Minister view this fact?
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-804	Madam President, I would like I realise that Mrs Quicklund would like me to speak in more detail on the proposal before us, but I would like to anticipate the examination that the Transport Agency is carrying out. Then I'd probably risk being reported to the KU by someone, and as a minister I'd rather avoid that. The Swedish Transport Agency has now to test on the same criteria as for air traffic management, regardless of the technology used. I note that the Director-General of the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration in the media highlighted the trial made by the Swedish Armed Forces. She writes: a consultation is taking place but the Swedish Armed Forces have a veto right. If the Armed Forces want to keep traditional air traffic services at an airport, that's what happens. ..................................................... I can't have any other conclusion. Safety interests must always take precedence. It is about aviation safety and the interests of the nation, which is why it is of course very important that this lighting has been done during the process, but that the Transport Agency also takes into account the safety testing in the review they have to make of the proposal before them. Again: I think it is important that we look at what conditions we have to implement new technology. There may be benefits. Not least, the new technologies may provide better opportunities to operate air navigation services for a larger part of the hours of the day and of the week. On the other hand, it should be assessed on the basis of the other disadvantages it may have. That is why I will follow this closely, as I say in the answer. I will also await the examination by the Swedish Transport Agency of the proposal.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-809	Madam President, I would like I agree with the Minister for Infrastructure: this is not about details. The role of politicians is to take overall responsibility for this. What we need to take into account is that the security aspect is taken into account, and here the Minister has a responsibility and must take it, through a government agency and a state-owned company as it is. Is it a good idea to control four regions from Stockholm? According to many, this issue should be dealt with by an independent body that is not financially bound by the outcome. Now we have the connection between Saab and the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration. The consequences of a wrong decision could also be very costly for everyone involved, not least the inhabitants of these regions. An independent review also reduces the risk of a wrong decision and gives legitimacy to the outcome. Of course, the credibility of the matter is also increasing. 172 air traffic controllers have written in an article that they are very questioning about the remote control project. Many of these are now retired and do not have to move in, which increases credibility when they describe that there is a great deal of concern about the security problem. I think it is important that their views are taken into account and that a factual debate is held. It's a matter of national security. Add to this that the government is now abandoning its strategy to relocate jobs from Stockholm, as we hear in this context. So we are talking about 200 jobs. Finally, I think there are still a number of questions. I will follow up on this work, and I am sure we will meet again in a new debate. Thank you very much for the debate.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-816	Madam President, I would like It is not a question of abandoning a strategy. That strategy is clear: we will continue to move out jobs and ensure that the state exists throughout the country. We do not intend to do as the alliance government and centralise activities and close down state activities in large parts of the country. In fact, one of the first things we did was to stop the closure of a number of tax and employment services offices to ensure that the service is available throughout the country. It is important, and I do not think that anyone who has followed this debate and the events of the last few days has doubts about us. We will take into account the safety aspects. I think that is absolutely crucial, and I will follow this issue very closely and ensure that there is proper scrutiny. It's an independent review. The Swedish Transport Agency is the authority that is now reviewing the plans of the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration and Swedavia to introduce remote or remote air traffic control, which concept is now used. This means that it is up to that authority now to carry out a proper test, and that is also one of the reasons why I do not go in and have views on this in detail. However, it is, of course, an issue that I am following very closely because it can mean both increased aviation safety and increased risks. This is the case with all the implementation of new technologies, and that is why we must, of course, ultimately be prepared to intervene if we see that there are any such risks. The important thing in this context is to realise that we are not alone in this development in Sweden. In several other countries, work on remote air traffic management and the implementation of new technologies is ongoing. We must not end up, and I hope and believe that neither will Saila Quicklund, in a situation where we are hesitant about any introduction of new technologies. We must be able to see that there are also conditions and opportunities to improve aviation safety through digitalisation and new control systems. Let's hope we can work together in that spirit!
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-822	Madam President, I would like Ola Johansson has asked me when the government will tighten up the legislation so that the number of car goalkeepers is reduced and the phenomenon that an unlimited number of vehicles are registered to natural persons who lack exorbitable assets ceases to exist. The government takes seriously the problem of vehicle goaltenders and that vehicle-related debts continue to increase. Goalkeeper vehicles cause major problems in the street environment because they occupy valuable land for municipalities when they are parked incorrectly, and they are often in poor condition from both a road safety perspective and an environmental perspective. Vehicle owners who do their job properly and pay their taxes and charges find it deeply unfair that some individuals escape their responsibilities by using vehicle goaltenders. The government is therefore committed to working to address the problem. In the 2018 Budget Bill, we announced a targeted state grant of SEK 25 million annually in 2018 – 2020 that municipalities can apply for costs related to the removal, installation and scrapping of these vehicles. We also announced a review of existing legislation and how we can tighten the regulatory framework to prevent the use of vehicle goaltenders. This review will begin on 1 February this year in the form of an internal investigation led by the Court of Appeal Lawman Björn Hansson. The investigator will evaluate, among other things, the implementation of the Act(2014:447) on the right to use vehicles for claims on certain taxes and charges, the Act on Claims, and the amendments to the Act( 1982:129) on the movement of vehicles in certain cases, which entered into force on 1 July 2014. Based on the analysis and the outcome of the evaluation, the investigator shall then submit the necessary legislative proposals in order to address the problem of vehicle goaltenders. This includes, inter alia, considering whether it is appropriate to increase the ability of the Enforcement Authority to use vehicles at a distance, to broaden the scope of the Act of Claims to include non-valued vehicles and whether there should be increased possibilities to apply a prohibition or prohibition of use in the case of vehicle-related debts. The investigator may also propose other measures to address the problem of vehicle goaltenders. The assignment shall be presented by 30 June of this year. The investigator shall also produce proposals for the formulation of a regulation on aid to municipalities for the costs of removal, installation and scrapping of vehicles with debts under Section 1 of the Act on the right to use vehicles for claims on certain taxes and charges.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-826	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. Just as in my previous debate here a moment ago, on transferors, this is about the fact that a majority in the Swedish Parliament is not satisfied with the government and thinks that the measures that have been taken are not enough. In an earlier debate here last March with the Minister's representative, Anna Johansson, it was promised that the government would come back on this issue. Now it seems from the answer I have received that Tomas Eneroth intends to do so, and that is a good thing. I welcome that. Sweden's most important car goalkeeper is registered to 3,794 cars. That's the note of the day. The last, according to Sydsvenskan, was registered as late as 21 December 2017. The person is a 33-year-old from Malmö who has debts of over SEK 50 million to the state. Another case described in the same newspaper is about a person who is dead since 2016 but who is the owner of 2 856 cars. It goes without saying that it is not possible to foreclose funds from such a person. It goes without saying that few of these cars may have such value that it is enough to pay for so much. How much can a 15-year-old Kia Kombi with a driving ban, owned by a 22-year-old convicted of rape and aggravated drug crime, be worth? On the other hand, it is a way for the 22-year-old to fund an addiction. Someone pays someone else to be able to use the car that the vehicle goalkeeper has no interest in. In this way you do not have to take the responsibility that we other car owners take for of course, that you pay taxes, do the right thing and take the fines you get when you break the law or any parking regulations. Combating the problem of vehicle goalkeepers is one way of getting to grips with and reducing the interest in crime. A car registered to a goaltender is a place to hide weapons at no risk of being tied to you as a person. It is therefore not just about the debt of a total of SEK 200 million that has been collected by the heaviest car keepers, who, according to the same newspaper, account for 15 000 cars. It is about how we create security throughout the country, combat crime and dependency on benefits and get people into work. It is not only gross criminals but also other people who think that this is a convenient way to dispose of a car. If something happens, just leave the car, leave the place and let the public take care of the responsibility. Another reason may be that, in order to obtain support and various forms of assistance, you must not be allowed to own a vehicle. Madam President, I would like These stories stem from Sydsvenskan's description of the situation in Malmö. It was their reporting and questions to me that prompted this debate. Madam President, I would like I do not intend to debate any more on this issue, but I am content with the announcement that an internal investigator has been appointed to evaluate the law that obviously has not worked, which has been aimed at the seizure of cars to pay claims arising for tax debts, parking fees and the like. The fact that the mission will be reported on 30 June means that the government has failed to address, before the elections, the problems of misplaced cars, difficulties in collecting taxes and, not least, the ruthless exploitation of already vulnerable people. This means that it is a new government that will have to clean up after the old one – a government that will mean that we will get a new leadership for Sweden, where the Center Party together with the Alliance will be able to take responsibility. Madam President, I would like The only way to tackle this problem is to limit the possibility for individuals to register on multiple vehicles. Here we can consider restricting property rights.
i-21fa13d0ca5e7ccf-838	Madam President, I would like I was saying for a long time that I agree with almost every word that Ola Johansson says. But then at the end came something about government, about failures and the like, and here we differ. Then, of course, I can appreciate the fact that a centre party is in the pulpit of the Parliament talking about the restriction of property rights, for it must undoubtedly be the unwillingness to restrict property rights which made the alliance government unable to do anything on this issue during all its eight years. I think this is a very important question, and I should honestly say that I appreciate Ola Johansson's commitment to this issue. I also think that Sydsvenska Dagbladet has done a solid job in describing the problem in its debate articles. I am pleased to be able to present in due course the investigation that has been set up. The investigator should be ready by June. This does not mean that it is therefore a next possible government, where I may be involved, that will deal with the issue, but it may also be the case that the investigator proposes constitutional changes, changes to regulations or other regulatory changes that will not least increase the ability of the Swedish Enforcement Authority to demand or seize vehicles. I am prepared to test the vast majority of possibilities available to curb the abuse of vehicle goaltenders. I think that this is an unacceptable development that contributes to a deterioration in security. But it is also a question of fertilising crime. So we need to find effective tools for both the police and the Enforcement Authority to be able to act. Therefore Björn Hansson, in addition to the directives, has free hands to come up with new proposals that give us better tools. I think me and Ola Johansson share the view that the faster we can act, the better. The better the tools the police and the bailiffs have, the better. This must be curbed in such a way that crime cannot be organised by using vehicle goaltenders. I'm looking forward to the investigation. It is a short time to 30 June, but the argument for having the short time is precisely to be able to bring forward proposals that should enter into force as soon as possible. If it is then changes to regulations and laws, we must wait until the Riksdag is re-assessed. If so, let us work together to ensure that we have strong legislation, because this is not a development that is acceptable.
