i-24edc55229ad000a-6	Madam President, I would like In 2014, Sweden changed its government, and Stefan Löfven once again put industrial policy on the political agenda. We went from eight years with a bourgeois government and a business policy that had been basically gone to an active business policy with investments in collaboration, innovation, capital, skills supply, export promotion, automation, digitalisation and transition ability – to name a few examples. And politics makes a difference. Last year, industrial investment reached a record level where SEK 72.3 billion was invested in Sweden. It is the highest level ever during the 80 years that SCB has measured industrial investments in Sweden. Swedish industrial companies are now hiring more people in Sweden than abroad, and more companies are relocating their production. Exports are moving away and have never actually been as high as now, and for the first time ever it is increasing in all of Sweden's counties. The active and progressive industrial policy launched in 2014 is delivering results. The success of Swedish industry and industry is recognised both nationally and internationally. The Finnish Farmers' Federation's profitability barometer for 2017 shows that last year was another record year for Swedish small businesses. Swedish growth is stable high and, as a comparison, for example, twice as high as the US. The international business magazine Forbes states that Sweden is one of the best countries in the world to be an entrepreneur in, and both the World Competitiveness Scoreboard and the World Bank's doing business index show that companies in Sweden have very good conditions and framework conditions in relation to the outside world. There is much to be proud of and to rejoice in while there are great challenges. We live in an increasingly globalised world, and Swedish companies are increasingly included directly and indirectly in global value chains. There is constant structural change, driven mainly by globalisation and digitalisation, but also by the need for a transition towards a more green and resource efficient economy. Sweden is at the forefront, but other countries are doing what they can to catch up and get past. This is the basis for the government's introduction of the new industrialisation strategy Smart Industry in 2016. In the strategy, the Government identifies four focus areas that are necessary to strengthen industrial competitiveness. The first is Industry 4.0. Companies in Swedish industry should be leaders in digital development and take advantage of the opportunities of digitalisation. The second is: sustainable production. Increased resource efficiency, environmental considerations and more sustainable production will contribute to the value creation, job creation and competitiveness of the industry. The third is: knowledge-lifting industry. The skills supply system must meet the needs of the industry and promote its long-term development. The fourth is: Testbed Sweden. Sweden will be a leader in research and development in areas that contribute to strengthening the industrial production of goods and services in Sweden. To implement the strategy, the Government has developed two action plans with over 80 measures for a stronger, more modern and more competitive industry. The strategy, together with the action plans, is the foundation of the cooperation work that the Government is conducting together with the industry, the social partners and academia. It has given a much-needed injection and helped to strengthen our position as an industrial nation in an ongoing structural change. In addition to the strategy and the action plans, the Government has launched five collaborative programmes where Sweden and Swedish industry have comparative advantages. The five collaborative programmes cover next generation travel and transport, smart cities, circular and bio-based economy, life sciences, and connected industry and new materials. The collaborative programmes contribute to achieving the objectives of the strategy. Here are some good examples and direct results of collaboration. The Government's investment in the electromobility lab in Gothenburg is an example. It is a billion-dollar investment together with the automotive industry, which will develop tomorrow's transport solutions. H ybrit is another example. This is a project where SSAB, LKAB and Vattenfall develop tomorrow's steel without coal. There, the government's investment in Industrikliv has been an enabler. Another example is Vinnova's new investment in welfare labs, a billion-dollar investment that will help make Sweden an internationally attractive test market for welfare innovations. It can be about health care, school, public transport or other public activities. Madam President, I would like Does this mean that we can settle down? No, of course not. Sweden has a long and successful industrial tradition. The industry is a growth engine in the Swedish economy and creates the conditions for jobs and growth. Industry and industry in general depend on long-term good framework conditions and conditions for running companies and developing operations in Sweden, including laws, regulations and taxes, as well as skills supply, infrastructure and energy supply – to name a few other important factors. The role of politics is to create the best possible conditions for growing and sustainable entrepreneurship throughout the country. The government has therefore made a number of efforts in these areas as well. It succeeded in breaking the stalemate that has paralysed energy policy for decades and delivered an energy policy agreement whose orientation and implementation decisions will be debated and decided in this House shortly. We meet the companies' urgent need for staff with the right skills – it is perhaps the biggest obstacle to growth among them all – with a historic investment in a knowledge boost that will mean 100 000 new places of study in universities of applied sciences, universities of applied sciences and colleges. We are spending more money to compensate for old sins in road and rail maintenance, and we are making a powerful roll-out of broadband in rural areas. We are abolishing inefficient and expensive reductions in employers' contributions to instead introduce growth support for companies that make their first job. We are introducing employee stock options, and we have announced a reduction in corporate tax. We have restructured state venture capital so that it better meets the business community's early-stage capital needs. Almi has received additional resources for new market-supplementing loan products such as innovation loans and microloans, and there is a dialogue with commercial banks on how best to promote efficient lending throughout the country. The government's export strategy has been welcomed by industry. 26 priority markets have been identified, and a new cooperation agency, Team Sweden, has been established. Export centres are now being set up in all counties. We have addressed the growing problems of small businesses with long paydays. It is not reasonable for small companies to act as banks for the big companies. That is why we welcome the code of conduct that is now being proposed. We are actively pushing the development of digital platforms to facilitate corporate administration, and last week it was announced that the requirement to save paper receipts is now abolished. Madam President, I would like I have mentioned a selection of everything that is being done to show the breadth, depth and scope of the Government's Lövven Enterprise Policy. I note that it is a business policy to be proud of, which delivers here and now but which also equips for tomorrow, for the next structural change and for the next low and boom. I therefore ask for reservation 1, which rejects the motions and for the letter to be added to the file.
i-24edc55229ad000a-33	Madam President, I would like Today, then, we are debating the Committee on Economic Affairs' report 16, a policy for growth and development in Swedish industry, on the basis of the government's letter with the same name, in which the government summarises in some respects its limited efforts in this area. It should absolutely be said that there are some that are good in the government's industrial agenda, things that in some cases are quite strongly reminiscent of the Swedish Democrats' industrial strategy from spring 2015. However, I believe that the government has only scratched the surface when it comes to what is required for Sweden to become a grand and growing industrial nation. I would therefore like to support Amendment No 2, which deals with our approach to the design of an industrial strategy. I would also like to take this opportunity to support the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy in paragraph 1. In this point, the Swedish Democrats, together with the alliance parties, send an announcement to the government that the government's efforts in a number of areas are inadequate. I regret that the announcement is rather vague, but it sends out a clear signal that after the autumn elections – what it will now look like – the government still has a lot to do in this area. Madam President, I would like As far as the government's work on industrial promotion is concerned, I can note three things, along with some good, concrete and important priorities. Firstly, the document is embellished with a lot of beautiful words, such as Industry 4.0, sustainable production, green conversion, smart industry and other concepts that are supposed to lead to industrial success. I think it is quite obvious that these great words are there to conceal the fact that the reform agenda is really rather thin. Secondly, a number of issues are dealt with at such a level of detail that it is highly doubtful whether it is in the core tasks of state power to do so. For my part, the task of politics is to create structures and regulations so that all the wise people in the country's industries can develop their innovations, products and production methods. Thirdly, and this is the most important thing, almost surgical precision is avoided from highlighting the most important pillars of a vital industrial climate in Sweden. Let me give you a few examples: As regards energy policy, reference is made to the energy agreement that took place during the term of office, despite the fact that it ended up in a huge setback for Sweden in general and industry in particular and, for example, totally lacks targets for security of supply, which is crucial for industry. Transport infrastructure: In this area, the government refers briefly to the so-called long-term infrastructure planning. At the same time, the government states that it wants to move forward with the insane high-speed project of hundreds of billions, which will inexorably lie down as a wet blanket over all the wise and thought-out infrastructure priorities. . Taxes: In this area, there is a complete lack of discussion about anti-competitive taxes against the world around us, which is quite logical in itself. In Sweden of the Social Democrats, taxes should only be increased. Madam President, I would like I fundamentally welcome the government's focus on industrial conditions. However, it sometimes takes a little strange expression. We may all remember how Stefan Löfven in the 2014 election campaign made pompous pledges and promised to install a so-called industrial chancellor. But like the Social Democratic proposal on butler in the subway, there was no industrial chancellor. On the other hand, they formed something called an advisory board, i.e. an advisory panel, with four people with positions in Swedish industry. However, for some reason it was announced after a year on the government's website that this work was completed. In view of the letter from the government, which we are debating here today, and the results that have been delivered, I think it is clear that we cannot settle down. That is why I would like to present here and now a proposal from the Swedish Democrats, and it is a short thing for us to set up an Industrial Commission in spring 2019. Madam President, I would like So what we are proposing is a parliamentary commission with representation from all parties in Parliament, which together with industry experts will work out an industrial strategy and a reform package so that Swedish industry can withstand the fierce competition from the outside world. It is very important for Sweden that more jobs in manufacturing are created in both short and medium- and long-term horizons. Not least outside our metropolitan areas, this type of job is of crucial importance. With an Industrial Commission, the challenges of industry can be addressed both in depth and across the board, where all parties receive the same information and are able to take part in the conflicts of interests that exist. I believe, however, that it is important that political activists, both within and outside party politics, do not have a decisive influence on the end product. From politics we must begin to stick to economic realities and the immutable laws of physics. It's time for grown ladies and uncles to talk! As I said, Sweden's prosperity was built around a world-class industry. It was industrialization that took us from being a poor country to becoming one of the richest in the 20th century. However, we cannot live on old merits. Continued prosperity requires us to remain competitive towards a world that is developing at a raging pace. It should be remembered in this context that in many cases Swedish products and brands are doing very well in a world with an ever larger middle class. Madam President, I would like Industrial manufacturing is becoming increasingly complex with an increasing number of companies supplying sub-solutions or sub-products to what ultimately becomes a consumer product. Our vision is therefore that the Commission's focus should be on both large and small industrial companies and not least service companies working towards industry. In order to concretise our thoughts on an industrial commission, I would like to be clear about the starting values we have in the Swedish Democrats and some suggestions for the committee directives that we believe the Industrial Commission should have. First of all, we need to make a number of necessary revisions to the existing energy agreement. Many parts of this are good, but we must have a target for security of supply that takes up the industry's conditions. We also need to reduce anti-competitive subsidies in the electricity-producing sector in order to avoid further energy market crises. The aim must also be to keep the total cost of energy low and be a comparative advantage for Swedish industry. We also need to take the issue seriously. In 2017, companies' costs for new or amended rules continued to run smoothly. The costs rose by a total of SEK 4.4 billion, and only administrative costs have increased by SEK 1.2 billion per year in current prices over the last five years. We therefore believe that a model for system apathys at regulatory simplification work needs to be introduced, and it is a model that we have previously highlighted in different contexts. It involves inviting business organisations, large and small, to draw up a priority list of which laws and rules are most costly in relation to the actual benefits. We also need control over infrastructure investments. We need a better basis for decision-making. Therefore, we believe that we should have a committee of experts, which can be placed under the Prime Minister's Committee, which produces data to prioritise the most important and profitable traffic infrastructure investments. Deviations from this order of priority must be well justified. Now the question is: are the others willing to support our proposal for an industrial commission? Are you saying that you are protecting Swedish industry seriously, and are you prepared to translate words into action? Do you dare to face the conflict of goals that fits within these problems? Let us now take industrial policy seriously Sweden and the Swedish people deserve!
i-24edc55229ad000a-57	Madam President, I would like Swedish industry is in an incredibly exciting transformation phase. Concrete, construction, cement, grocery, aerospace, mining and minerals, the forest industry, the steel industry and the haulage industry – these nine industries have submitted road maps for fossil-free competitiveness to the government through the Government's Fossil-free initiative. The roadmaps shall make visible the opportunities that climate change can bring to the industries. This is exactly what smart industrial policy is about for us Greens. We do not see the transition to a new and more sustainable society and a new type of industry as a necessary evil, but as a process full of opportunities. Sweden will be the world's first fossil-free welfare nation, and we won't be if we don't bring industry along the way. The government's new industrialisation strategy is not only called Smart Industry, it is also smart. Four focus areas are identified for industrial competitiveness. First of all, companies in Swedish industry should be leaders in digital development and in exploiting the opportunities of digitalisation. Secondly, increased resource efficiency, environmental considerations and more sustainable production should contribute to the value creation, job creation and competitiveness of the industry. Thirdly, the skills supply system must meet the needs of the industry and promote its long-term development. Fourthly, Sweden should be the leader in research in areas that contribute to strengthening industrial production of goods and services in Sweden. This is the recipe for an industry that should be at the global forefront, not only in terms of competition but also in areas such as social and environmental sustainability. We will export the solutions of the future to the world. But then politics cannot be in the gallery, but we must, of course, be involved in contributing. Green industrial policy is about making it easy to do the right thing. With economic instruments, we want to enable both individuals and companies to make climate-smart choices. This is why the government matches the heavy industry's ambition to produce completely fossil-free steel through the initiative Industriklivet, which means SEK 300 million per year. The results are now visible. The other week in Today's industry we were able to read about how the business community celebrates the government's climate policy and how the climate transition for industry and industry means big business opportunities. It is exciting to follow an industry in transformation. Much is happening in the fields of servitude, digitalisation, globalisation, conversion to resource efficiency and circularity. The Swedish industry is moving forward in these strategic transformations. It's not basically gone-- it's on its toes! I would ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-GeSgsp7r2j3EW2aHJNLZWv	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. We are debating the Committee on Economic Affairs' report 16, which deals with the Government's letter 202 and is entitled A policy for growth and development in Swedish industry. In the letter, the Government describes the content of the Smart Industry strategy and the measures that the Government has decided to implement to achieve the strategy's goal of increasing Sweden's competitiveness and participation in primarily the highly qualified parts of the global value chains. The Government also describes developments in industry in recent years and the challenges that remain. The Government notes that the industry is undergoing structural change driven by globalisation, digitalisation and the transition towards a green resource-efficient economy. The Smart Industry strategy aims to strengthen the adaptability and competitiveness of enterprises and their ability to benefit from technological development. The vision for the strategy is that Sweden should be the world leader in innovative and sustainable production of goods and services. The goal is for the industry throughout Sweden to increase its competitiveness and its participation in primarily the highly qualified parts of the global value chains. Industry, like business in general, depends on good framework conditions and basic conditions for operating and developing businesses. This includes laws, rules and taxes, but also energy supply and infrastructure. In the strategy, the Government identifies four focus areas that are necessary for industrial competitiveness. Others have already mentioned them. It is about Swedish industry being the leader in digital development, that production should be sustainable and that we should have increased resource efficiency and environmental considerations. The supply of skills is very important, and I believe that this government has really lifted more than the previous one – we need a knowledge boost in Swedish industry. Testbed Sweden means that Sweden should be the leader in research in areas that contribute to strengthening industrial production of goods and services in Sweden. The implementation of the strategy itself has been put into practice in two Action Plans, where the actions in the Action Plans have largely been designed in the light of dialogue and input from the social partners, businesses and academia. The Government has also held industrial talks under the leadership of the Minister for Enterprise and Innovation with representatives from academia, the social partners and the authorities to discuss the development and evaluation of the Government's work on the strategy and action plans. Madam President, I would like Now I want to move on to what I think is ironic. Together with SD, the Alliance receives an announcement in which they write in the motion that the government's new industrialization strategy does not address the importance of facilitating the development of existing industries and new start-ups in new industries. The exercisers further argue that the tax burden and reduced profitability hamper the competitiveness of Swedish industry and that a step towards a stronger industry should therefore be to strengthen the general industrial conditions. Furthermore, they write that entrepreneurs spend a lot of time and money dealing with tax administration rather than investing in their core business. What I find ironic about this is that the Moderates are the main authors of this exercise, as I see it, and that during their reign their own Prime Minister thought that Swedish industry was in practice a passé. What was the view of smart industry? Does the Alliance really believe that the solution for the future of Swedish industry is simple jobs and tax cuts? What we need is education that matches tomorrow's industry and research that makes us the leader in climate-smart industry. That is what will make us the world leader when the time of short-term profiteers is over and consumers demand products that are made in a sustainable way and with green, renewable electricity. Here we see, Madam President, that Swedish industry has understood the way forward. It is, of course, a green, resource-efficient economy. I want to lift reservation 1.
i-24edc55229ad000a-76	Madam President, I would like Right now the automotive industry is doing well in my hometown of Gothenburg. It's even going really well. The two Volvo companies are struggling hard – due to this year's development, they are delivering new car models and truck models on assembly lines. Their success is evident not only in the individual companies but also in the extensive network of suppliers they have both in Sweden and in other countries. It is also not only for the Volvo companies it is going well. A boom in Sweden and the world contributes to demand and new jobs. At the same time, Sweden faces several challenges and problems in both the short and a little longer term. It is important that we can talk about both of these things, both what goes well and works and what is not good and does not work, because around the corner Swedish industry as well as business and the labour market in general meet several problems and challenges. The main thing is that competition is intensifying. It is therefore nothing new that Swedish companies sell products and services to customers in other countries, both close to and a little further away. The new thing compared to before is that competition is tougher and that everyone is affected – even those people and companies who work with the most advanced. This means that we in Sweden cannot take anything for granted. On the contrary, it becomes even more important, I would say, that we are doing what we can politically in order for companies in Sweden to have reasonable terms and conditions that are well proven by competitor countries. One example among many is energy and energy costs. For a long time, companies in Sweden, especially in industry, have been able to benefit from low costs of electricity and other energy. However, a report released as recently as last week, Madam President, compared Sweden with several other countries in Europe and other parts of the world and notes that Sweden is now at the middle level in terms of the overall costs of electricity and other energy. To be clear, I will say that this is by no means a disaster. On the other hand, it is thought-provoking, especially if you have the ambition to have a well-functioning and thriving industry in Sweden. The Swedish industry exports a large part of the products and services it produces. Even a large part of exports are things that are first imported, with which you do something and then ship it out to customers. It is usually said that about half of the Swedish economy is linked to trade. From this, I think that at least two political conclusions can be drawn on what we need to do if we are serious about promoting and helping industry. The first is that a future government needs to give priority to trade issues. We can see that protectionism is increasing in the world. We see that when the British leave EU cooperation, the free trade voice in Europe will become weaker. A new government must do what it can to counter protectionism and contribute to free trade and trade agreements. That is easy to say, but not for nothing it is extremely important for large and important Swedish industrial companies. That must be a priority for the future government. The second conclusion is that, in the short term, the transport to and from Sweden needs to be repaired by solving the port problems in Gothenburg. Despite existing collective agreements, the container port is exposed to labour disputes and threats of labour disputes. Common instruments on the Swedish labour market such as mediation have been used but have not worked. The impact on customers, especially the Swedish industry, is incredibly extensive. The company Damvad Analytics estimates in a report released last week that the impact of port problems in Gothenburg for Sweden's industry was SEK 4.5 billion in increased costs in 2017. This does not include indirect effects that lost business and badwill for Swedish companies that are unable to deliver their products and services to customers. Unfortunately, despite the major effects on Swedish industry, the government has delayed and handled this a little too carefully. We want the port problems in Gothenburg to be solved as quickly as possible. We want the fairway in Gothenburg to be expanded so that Sweden can later regain direct shipping lines between Gothenburg and important ports and markets in North America and the Far East. A functioning port in Gothenburg, Madam President, is a typical example of what good competitiveness and good conditions mean for Swedish industry. If we are to have a large and successful industry in the future, we must continue to invest heavily in research and innovation. We need to focus on AI and digitalisation. Tax conditions for both entrepreneurs and employees must be reasonable. Students in Swedish schools must meet higher demands, higher expectations and longer school days. Entrepreneurs must have better conditions such as more generous rules for employee options. We also need to launch a programme to attract more foreign experts. We have seen what it has meant for the IT industry, and it is important for important industries in Sweden to get more foreign experts here through talent visas, simplified bureaucracy at Försäkringskassan and the Swedish Tax Agency and other things. As we move towards a choice, it is also time to sum up what this government has done and Stefan Lövven's impression on the industry. It's like wine, like water. I think that the government should acknowledge that it has focused on trade policy and stood up for trade agreements. I think that several investments made in parts of research and innovation policy have been good, such as the electric hybrid lab in Gothenburg. But I also think that the government deserves criticism for several of the company proposals it has put forward and the information it has given. It has become more expensive to hire and less profitable to work. Deterioration of RUT and ROT has created uncertainty, a discussion of 3:12 rules and exit tax as well. They have first been told and then something has been pulled back. This is rightly met with concern and uncertainty among entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. Many entrepreneurs testify that they feel that it has become more difficult to start and run companies in Sweden in recent years. There is also concern in industry about what the government wants with a planned truck tax, which impairs competitiveness. We and the Alliance have another idea: to strengthen the conditions for industry and other parts of the business world.
i-24edc55229ad000a-87	Madam President, I would like I was going to ask Lars Helmered and the Moderates: Would you consider sitting down in a parliamentary committee to examine all the conflicts that exist between a policy driven by activists and Swedish industry, which will ultimately provide us with jobs and welfare in Sweden?
i-24edc55229ad000a-88	Madam President, I would like The Moderates have proposed in a parliamentary motion that we should do some form of competitiveness inquiry. For us, this takes as its starting point, among other things, what I raised in the speaker's chair about energy costs. The simple thing in politics is to paint a vision. It is very important, but in the global world we live in, it is also important to look at how Sweden stands. It may not always be that we have the lowest tax, for example, but we must have reasonable conditions for entrepreneurs and employees in Sweden. These are transport conditions, training systems, tax systems and other things. I can see that a future alliance government will focus on this in order for us to be able to have important industries in Sweden in the future. I suppose this is what Josef Fransson is after when he talks about some kind of competitiveness inquiry. For me, the form of this is subordinate. For me, whether it should be a parliamentary inquiry, an export committee or a job done internally in a department is not the important thing. The important thing is that we as a basis for political decision-making look at and compare Sweden with competitor countries. It may be countries in Europe, such as Germany or France, or it may be the United States, which is an important trading market for us. But a major focus should also be on important Asian markets, from which we see increased competition. This is an important agenda ahead of us. Mr Fransson also mentioned something about activists in this context. I'll return the question. I don't really know what you're talking about. You're welcome to repeat that question.
i-24edc55229ad000a-92	Madam President, I would like By activists, I mean politicians who do not take into account the laws of physics when, for example, an energy policy is to be designed and who do not take into account economic realities and models and so on. This can be seen quite a lot, surely in all parliaments around Europe but perhaps not least in Sweden. The Green Party, when we have quite a lot of problems in front of us in Sweden, talks about banning straws, for example. When this attitude comes into the big political issues, it will not be good. I believe that a parliamentary inquiry in some form would be very good and useful, because then all parties will be given the same information. All parties are faced with the conflicts that still exist between an activist view of the world and, for example, how to get an energy system that can withstand the security of supply in Swedish industry. Within the framework of the Energy Agreement, which includes the Moderates, a decision has been taken in which there are simply no such objectives. That should be the most important thing. This is also a question that I would like to ask Lars Hjälmered: Is it prepared to supplement the energy agreement with targets on, for example, security of supply?
i-24edc55229ad000a-95	Madam President, I would like I believe that the issues of competitiveness for Sweden will become more important in the coming years. We now have a lot of discussion, as we move towards elections, where voters focus on immigration, integration, healthcare and crime – rightly so, because these are important societal challenges. As politicians, we must have the ability to solve the immediate problems and have clever answers to this, which we and others, of course, are trying to do. Beyond this and around the corner, however, I see that Sweden is being challenged when we see tougher competition between us and other countries, even when it comes to the most advanced. Again – I might repeat myself – the form of things is less important to me. The important thing is that a future government focuses on competitiveness and that we look at how our tax conditions look like in the competitor countries, what the results are in the Swedish school and whether we focus right in research. You can do this yourself, in a department and in an investigation, but I think that such an analysis makes it too easy if you say that the investigation should do so. There are also many organisations that are already looking at this: the OECD, the World Economic Forum, the European Commission and others that carry out ongoing and recurrent analyses. I think it is important for us as decision-makers to take in those analyses to see what we are good at. Don't forget that there is quite a lot that works quite well in Sweden; it is a well-functioning society. Conversely, there are areas – tax levels, tax burdens, rigid labour markets, non-functioning housing markets – which are reasonable and clear future reform areas if we are serious about wanting a well-functioning business forward. Finally, with regard to the energy agreement, I think it was a very good deal we made. We solved a number of important, urgent problems in the Swedish electricity and energy market. We are ensuring that we can have nuclear power for the foreseeable future, and we are strengthening hydropower and providing information in order to be able to expand more in the area of renewable energy. Overall, this has been well received in industry, and that is the kind of information I think it is reasonable to give.
i-24edc55229ad000a-100	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Lars Hjälmered, for one, I have to say, good speech, which shows that there are many similarities between parties in the Swedish Parliament when it comes to creating good conditions for Swedish business. There are also a number of differences. Above all, there is the great difference in whether it is believed that policy as a lever can use collaboration to achieve good results. In fact, I asked for the floor most of the time to ask a specific question. I understood that Lars Hjälmered, among other things, highlighted the electromobility lab in Gothenburg as a good example of something that the government does. This is very gratifying if I understood you correctly. At the same time, however, Lars Hjälmered and the Moderates do not set aside any money for this investment in their budget, but one of the so-called tyrke r bet in its entirety. My specific question will then be: What is really going on in terms of Moderate politics and their view of the investment in the electromobility lab in Gothenburg? If the Moderates decide after the next election, will it still be there? What is the message to the industry?
i-24edc55229ad000a-103	Madam President, I would like I myself have a background in industry. I have worked in the aerospace industry with the development of aerospace engines and rockets, so I know how important this type of industrial job is and how much the research carried out involves in terms of technological development. So I strongly defend that we should give reasonable and good conditions to the Swedish industry – broad, with research, education and other things. Research and innovation is an important area. The discussion about the electromobility lab also came up when the Minister of Economic Affairs visited Gothenburg and, together with the Chairman of the Municipal Board, wrote an article on the theme that Jennie Nilsson addresses, of course to create uncertainty among important employers and universities in Gothenburg about where you have the Moderates and the bourgeoisie. Then we gave a message, and we now also give it clearly: With a bourgeois government we will of course have an electromobility lab in Gothenburg.
i-24edc55229ad000a-105	Madam President, I would like I would like to turn over the steak: it is hardly to create ambiguity, but rather to create clarity, given that a budget is being put in place which completely dismisses the efforts made. We are talking about almost SEK 1 billion in this project. I think it is quite reasonable that at all levels and everywhere one can make sure to ask the question clearly. I am very grateful that Lars Hjälmered is now clear that this money will be added in the event that it would go so bad that the Moderates will be in government at the next election. I have two supplementary questions, one of which is linked to the first question. Does this also apply, for example, to the industrial life, which is also a clear investment in research and innovation? Perhaps the most exciting example that has come out of this so far is Hybrid, which I also mentioned in my speech. It is about SSAB, together with LKAB and Vattenfall, experimenting with developing tomorrow's steel, which does not contain carbon. This is so cool, if you ask me. Is Lars Helmered's message also on this issue that these efforts will be retained? I ask this because the industry is asking me, and I think the Moderates should be clear here. The second question is about framework conditions. We fully agree that good framework conditions are important, and Lars Hjälmered spent quite a long time in his speech talking about the importance of good framework conditions, not least competitive taxes. I can respect this; it is important. That is one of the reasons why, for example, we are adjusting corporate tax at the moment. My specific question, given that we have a tax system that is rather out of date and is based on deductions, is: Are the Moderates prepared to sit down and look over the tax system in a broader tax review, as, for example, Magdalena Andersson has proposed?
i-24edc55229ad000a-110	Madam President, I would like One area that I think a future government should address with a broader solution is the housing market. It is a major problem for important industrial companies, but also for development at large. It may be that you are going to study somewhere, move to a job or something like that. We have a non-functioning housing market, where unnecessary support and subsidies, which this government has put in place, are a major obstacle to the wider business community. This is a typical example, and we need to look at a broader discussion about deductions and taxes. I see this as a reasonable focus forward in order to tackle this. It is also the case that we match the government in terms of research and innovation, if we look at the overall budget in that area. But otherwise, the palette is wider than this. I would say that if we are serious about both small companies and industry, we need the talent programme. There we have problems with skills demonstrations, which take place every day. Foreigners who work and pay taxes are thrown, based on small errors, literally out of the country. This is absolutely appalling, and the government does not have the ability to stop it. We and our alliance colleagues want to go further and introduce talent visa. We want to be more open to all important foreign experts, because they are needed at industrial companies where research is carried out on metals, vehicles, pharmaceuticals and other things. Then there is such a thing as the truck tax, which the government has said it should introduce. Last time they talked about 14 kroner per mile. Rightly, there were reactions from important industrial companies, not least in the forestry sector, who said that this is hitting the opportunities for obtaining biomass, which can be used in, for example, cogeneration. There is a great deal of uncertainty there. I think it is wrong to focus on this type of cost burden, which reduces the competitiveness of important industries in Sweden.
i-24edc55229ad000a-115	Madam President, I would like Lars Helmered mentions the conflict in the port of Gothenburg in his speech. I agree that it is not a good thing that it has been going on for so long and has touched so many parts. But there is one thing I would like to ask about Moderates' view of the Swedish model. The Swedish model has worked well. You, Lars Helmered, and I have grown up in a country where industry has made us well-being. The model has been based on negotiations between the social partners. None of them can choose who to negotiate with. The employer side has its party, as they have appointed. It is the party which organises the companies concerned. It is the same on the workers' side. The conflict in Gothenburg is based on employers wanting to decide who they are negotiating with. They do not negotiate with the union where most of the employees are organised. Do the Moderates think it would be okay if it were the opposite, that is, that the workers say: No, we are not negotiating with this employers' organisation! Instead, they may want to negotiate with an organization that has 10 percent of the employees as subcontractors. Would the Moderates think that this is okay, so that they negotiate even about who to negotiate with?
i-24edc55229ad000a-119	Madam President, I would like The last question is about what is commonly called yellow unions. Do we think that one should be able to use such and slip around agreements and so on? No, we don't. I think that Birger Lahti is right that there are big gains with the Swedish model. Industry is the subject of the debate here. We can see that many industrial representatives tend to point out that Sweden has a well-functioning labour market model. When you compare competitiveness and see how it works in Sweden, Germany and France say that the Swedish model is a marvel of flexibility, possibilities for conversion and the like. This is something we must, of course, look after and protect. In the port of Gothenburg we have a situation where there are competing trade unions. It is normal to use combat measures to force a collective agreement. That's perfectly reasonable. Just as reasonable is that after you have taken in hand, you have a duty of peace. The situation in the port of Gothenburg has been that there has been a group that has not respected this foundation on the Swedish labour market. Employers have signed collective agreements and agree on salaries and other conditions. You should get a job obligation, but you don't get it. According to the analysis from Damvad Analytics, the cost to the business sector in 2017 has been SEK 4.5 billion. Common instruments such as mediation have been used but have not worked. Then you can act differently. I think it is reasonable that we, as politicians, look at how we can avoid such a situation that so adversely affects Swedish industry and the rest of the business world. Then the question is, what do Birger Lahti and the Left Party want? Do you think that these are reasonable consequences with SEK 4.5 billion in increased costs for Swedish industry in 2017? Reasonably, it is about important industrial jobs in Sweden.
i-Zhg3y81uak7ZY46N1C4SR	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Lars Helmered! We agree on one thing: we have both grown up in a country where industry has created prosperity, and it has built on the rules that apply today. But now the employers' organisations, above all bourgeois, want to use this as a battering ram for fighting measures. It is claimed that this would be a major problem. But the problem is not what the workers' organisation has built up. This concerned working conditions and health and safety problems in the workplace, which the employer believes does not exist. They're there. The consequence has now been these figures. Then there are some who say they're bigger and some who say they're smaller. I agree that it is unfortunate that the parties have not agreed, but what they want to do is to choose for themselves who they are negotiating with. What agreement should make it a peace obligation in that workplace? Most of the employees are organised in the Port Workers' Association, not in Transport. Then the question that I asked you at the beginning is: Do you think it would be okay if they themselves choose which employer organisation they are negotiating with? There is an organisation that negotiates for APM Terminals, but what if the workers choose to negotiate with another organisation instead and think that there should be a duty of peace because they have agreed? As I see it, this conflict is being used as a battering ram to prevent action on the Swedish labour market. They've worked well. They will work well as long as you let them work as they have so far.
i-24edc55229ad000a-129	Madam President, I would like I would say this: The problem is that the usual instruments have not worked. It has had an extraordinary effect. I mentioned the figure of 4.5 billion. Let me take a concrete example. A company – I don't need to mention which company it is, but it is a large industry in Hagfors, Värmland, which has sales of approximately SEK 5 billion – says that they have received SEK 20 million in increased logistics costs. They estimate that they have lost 100 million in business because they have not been able to deliver to customers, as a direct effect of the container terminal in Gothenburg not functioning. This is, of course, at the heart of the industry's conditions. One effect we have also seen is that a number of large shipping companies have stopped operating ships, i.e. what they call direct lines, between Gothenburg and Nordam erika and Gothenburg and the Far East. For example, it has been a competitive advantage for Sweden to have been able to drive trucks or trains to Gothenburg for further loading directly to important markets. Now we have to do a transhipment in Sweden or down on the continent, with large increases in environmental emissions and increased costs as a result. This is bad for industry. Then our basic idea in politics is not to cement today's set of unions and employers, but it should be possible for them to develop and take a position in new industries and in other ways. But if we see that the usual instruments have not worked – we see that it is devastating economic and other effects on industries and other employers – we as politicians cannot just sit and watch. We need to see in a dialogue how to solve the port problems. In fact, I do not think it is reasonable to be exposed to labour disputes or to threats of labour disputes if there is a collective agreement in force, because the effects of this are so great. In fact, I am amazed that the Left Party and Birger Lahti, who often highlight the importance of industry, say so clearly that this is calm and that it will probably work out when we see the billions in bills landing with the business community.
i-24edc55229ad000a-134	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. It felt so unusual to say this that I had to look twice in my script. Sweden has a long history as an industrial nation, and industry is indeed a growth engine in the Swedish economy. Did you know, for example, that industry and the industrial sector together account for 77% of the total export value? It is therefore not an exaggeration to claim that industry has an enormous impact on Sweden's prosperity and well-being. Since Sweden is an export-dependent country, we must always be at the forefront of competitiveness and innovation. For this reason, the government developed a new industrialisation strategy just over two years ago. Among other things, they write about what measures they have decided on to make Swedish industry even stronger and how to increase competitiveness vis-à-vis other countries. Madam President, I would like The Government's ambition is good, and the strategy is thorough and necessary. Unfortunately, however, I feel that the strategy's focus is more on the larger companies and not on improving the overall economic climate in the country, which in turn would benefit all companies. A prerequisite for industrial companies to be competitive in an international market is that there are good conditions here at home. There is still a lot to be desired. My question is: how does the government think it will be easier for industrial companies to raise taxes and charges by over 50 billion annually? It is clear that it affects the costs that companies have to charge their end-user. Another issue affecting industrial companies is the government's management of forestry policy, which is very important in large parts of the country and not least for income to Sweden. It is also a very important key to climate change. Forests can help to replace oil and other fossil raw materials and are in fact a prerequisite for transforming into a greener society. Unfortunately, there is gravel in this machinery. The government's internal battles on forest issues create uncertainty for both forest owners and the Swedish forest industry. It has gone so far that large billion-dollar investments in northern Sweden, for example at a large biorefinery in Domsjö outside Örnsköldsvik, are on ice. That's because you feel that there's a double signal coming from the government. I'm not the one who says it. I'm the CEO of Lars Winter. Unfortunately, this is a huge disadvantage, as it would create many jobs. It has been estimated that such a biorefinery would create up to 5,000 jobs. Those of you who are familiar with northern Sweden and its conditions know that there are no jobs in the labour market there. These jobs would therefore be incredibly important. It does not hold that the Minister for Rural Development promises that forest owners should feel safe and that they should be able to make increased withdrawals from the forest, while the Minister for the Environment says otherwise. In order for the Swedish forest industry to feel good and for us to be able to switch to a more sustainable society, we need clear information from the government about which forestry policy applies. The government's current and dual signals are actually harmful to the Swedish forest industry. Madam President, I would like Now Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog has opened up to relaunch the mileage tax for heavy goods vehicles. It's a treasure from a distance. In an export-dependent country like Sweden it is anything but good, and it does not benefit Swedish industry. This attack affects not least northern Sweden – you know that we have quite a lot of long distances there – and that is all done for nothing. The truth is that it is perfectly possible to reduce emissions without this kind of destructive burden. For example, there is still a huge amount that a government could do to reduce emissions with biofuels and at the same time strengthen the economy of the forest industry. It would of course benefit the Swedish economy if forest owners got a larger market and the demand for forest raw materials increased. Unfortunately, it looks as if the Social Democrats have settled for the Green Party and their symbolic policy, where it is more important that it sounds good than that it actually has positive effects for the whole country. To conclude, I would like to mention something that is incredibly important and which we often mention, but which is not always very much written about in the media, and it is the rule issue and what restraint it is for Swedish companies and for industry. Many entrepreneurs feel that there are far too many rules, which means that they spend too much time on administration rather than developing their business. Unfortunately, the rulework seems to have stagnated. There's a lawyer named Göran Grén. He came some time ago with a report called A Challenged Sweden. There he writes about regulatory problems for companies in the country. He believes that the government puts too little gunpowder on the issue and says that the rule improvement work has actually stopped. On the Swedish Enterprise website you can read an interview with Göran Grén where he says: We are going the wrong way. The numbers are alarming. The regulatory burden is increasing, Sweden is falling into the OECD's ranking and we are lagging behind several of our main competitors who are working seriously with regulatory improvement to facilitate their business. This doesn't hold. If Sweden is to continue to have a competitive industry successfully on the global market, it is not possible to increase costs and charges at home in the way the government has contributed in recent years. That goes without saying.
i-24edc55229ad000a-150	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for approval of the committee's proposal and for an announcement to be made to the government that the government should design the policy so that it provides the basic and necessary conditions for Swedish industry to grow and reach its full potential. In the letter we are discussing today, the government states that industry is undergoing structural change, and that is quite obvious. I would say that it is not just industry that does. It is we as a society and we as people who are undergoing that transformation as well. We become more digital, we become more global and we become more knowledge driven. It places new demands, not only on industry but also on us people and on society. I believe that this is something that we must take into account in the future and not just today. I believe that the government's new industrialisation strategy has been and is a good step on the way to paying attention to the continued need for a strong and viable industry in Sweden. Sweden needs an industry that is internationally competitive. It needs to be competitive not only in terms of quality and innovation, but also the tax burden must be competitive vis-à-vis other nations. Reduced profitability hampers the competitiveness of Swedish industry. One step towards a stronger industry should therefore be to strengthen the general nutritional conditions for the industry. The economic conditions must also be included in this. Similar tax rules that are global and administrative burdens that are similar within Europe, I believe are important pillars for Swedish industry to remain competitive. The industry, like the business community in general, depends on good framework conditions and basic conditions for running companies and developing operations in Sweden. This includes laws, rules and taxes, but also energy supply and infrastructure. Therefore, it is a little difficult to understand that the government chooses to, while presenting this strategy to industry, which is largely very good, not to tackle the problems that entrepreneurs face every day through a slow administration of permits, high fees and increasingly higher taxes. Regulatory simplification is something that all entrepreneurs are talking about, and it is desirable to get to grips with it. However, this government has chosen not to submit all proposals to the Regulatory Council for scrutiny, which makes it difficult to answer the question whether the proposals put forward really simplify the business environment or even make it more difficult for companies. At the same time, we know that the impact descriptions in proposals are inadequate. This also makes it sometimes difficult to understand the consequences for companies, regardless of whether they work only within the country or internationally. The Alliance government often spoke of one rule in and one out, and the Council would be such an authority as to calculate this. Today's experience with many is rather that new rules are entered but never removed. I think we all agree that small industrial enterprises are of great importance, especially to small towns around Sweden. A modification of the 3:12 rules could reduce the difficulty of making generational shifts work or could help others to invest. This is something that this government would have been able to do precisely in terms of generational shifts, but it refrained from doing so. If Sweden is to be a world-leading nation in terms of innovation and the production of sustainable goods and services, a holistic approach is required for the entire business community, which the Christian Democrats, together with the other alliance parties, are working for. Smaller regulatory problems, internationally applicable taxes, which are equivalent globally, along with venture capital, I believe are the way forward.
i-24edc55229ad000a-161	Madam President, I would like Households and enterprises should be able to count on a secure supply of electricity. It may sound ridiculously simple, but in all its simplicity it is a little what energy policy is ultimately about. Historically, Sweden has had a very secure electricity and energy supply. The industry has been able to rely on the electricity system, and there have been reasonable prices and little environmental impact. It has been an advantage for Sweden, and it is important that we protect this in a future electricity and energy system. In order to preserve this, we need continued reasonable conditions for electricity generation, transmission and use. We need to have a well-functioning market and a readiness to take on new technologies and new technological opportunities to come. There is a very exciting technological development, where there are many examples. Let me just mention a few brief points about that. If we look at digitalisation, we see that it opens up completely new and other possibilities for monitoring, control and optimization. We can see that cost-effective methods for storage could redraw the entire energy landscape in Sweden – but also between Sweden and other countries. It is not always obvious that it will be to Sweden's advantage, but there are staggering thoughts in the long run in this. We are also seeing technological developments which, not least in the case of new renewable energy, have led to sharply falling prices. Solel is the subject of the day, Madam President, and it has great potential in Sweden. Technology has moved forward and is moving forward, and the interest is very high among both households and companies. The prices of panels are falling. It is a very exciting development, which the Moderates welcome. That customers, whether it is private individuals or companies, want to take advantage of new technical opportunities is fantastic and should be protected. Then there is the question and the discussion about which instruments to use. After all, the government has introduced support for solar electricity; we are talking about around SEK 1 billion of taxpayers' money every year. In our view, that is an unreasonable amount of money, despite the great benefit and opportunity of this as such. The Swedish National Audit Office has now also reviewed this support, and they are very critical of the government in this area. The Swedish National Audit Office's overall conclusion is that the evidence, as they say, largely lacks socio-economic analysis and that the cost-effectiveness of the aid in relation to the objective of increasing the amount of renewable electricity has not been sufficiently highlighted. There is also a lack of analysis of the State financial impact of the aid in the event of a significant expansion of solar electricity. The Swedish National Audit Office concludes by saying that they feel that the Riksdag has not received adequate information before its decisions. They also note that there are no analyses showing overall and consistent socio-economic profitability with support for different types of renewable electricity in Sweden. The government is now saying that an analysis will be carried out, which I think is good. It is said itself that one should point out the reasons for this type of support and the financial impact of the state. At the same time, the Swedish National Audit Office says that a more comprehensive analysis of the overall support for this area should be carried out, comparing solar electricity with other technologies on the market in order to get the most cost-effective governance possible with different types of energy and other societal goals. We share the view of the Swedish National Audit Office. We believe that it is reasonable to carry out a review to look at how this aid is holding up compared to support for other technologies in the electricity and energy markets. Ultimately, this is about having an open and positive attitude, in this case to solar electricity, but also to other energy and energy technologies, while at the same time saving taxpayers' money in a responsible manner. I don't think the government has. With this in mind, Madam President, I would like to vote in favour of Amendment No 1.
i-24edc55229ad000a-169	Madam President, I would like We are debating today the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the overall support for solar electricity. The reason for the Swedish National Audit Office's review has been that the costs per kilowatt hour are high while the system for solar electricity is complicated and difficult to understand. Swedish solar electricity production is currently covered by a number of different subsidies. These include investment aid, the electricity licensing system and various tax subsidies. Only in the budget proposal for the current year, the Government has allocated more than SEK 900 million per year during the period 2018 – 2020 to investment aid for solar cells, and during the spring the support was also increased by an additional SEK 170 million. However, in the event of a substantial expansion, the State's costs of the aid may be significantly higher. As solar electricity is relatively expensive to produce, the aid per kilowatt-hour produced is also high compared to the aid for other renewable electricity generation, which is primarily subsidised through the electricity certification system. The Swedish National Audit Office has also made estimates of what the tax loss can be with the target picture found in the Swedish Energy Agency's proposed strategy for increased use of electricity, and it is estimated that it can amount to almost SEK 5 billion annually if the green extreme parties succeed – or fail, depending on how you see it. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office notes that due to the lack of a socio-economic and state financial analysis of the total support, the Riksdag has not received sufficient information prior to decisions on support measures. It is noted that a different design of the aid is likely to provide, for example, more renewable electricity for the money. The Institute of Economics has also pointed out, among other things, that the support for solar cells departs from the principle of cost-effectiveness and technology neutrality and that it should be abolished rather than increased. They have also pointed out that there is no indication that a subsidy on solar electricity production would increase the number of employees in the economy in the long term. It is also the case that the industry organisation for solar electricity in Sweden, Svensk Solenergi, during the previous autumn was out with a call with a desire to just phase out the support for solar cells. This was clearly rejected by the government, which increased both the level of remuneration and the level of investment aid as such. It may not be too unusual for an industry, for example, to be able to ask for different forms of aid or to be a driver of such aid, but one may have to look for a long time and with lights and lanterns to find cases where an industry organisation believes that subsidies should be phased out – and where such a desire is instead met with even more subsidies. But perhaps this is the case with a government that has a subsidy policy as its main branch and chooses to ignore all the votes in the debate. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats believe that today's investment aid for the installation of solar cells, which has been greatly increased in recent years, can be questioned for good reason precisely because solar cells almost exclusively produce electrical energy at the time of the year when Sweden already has a large production surplus of electricity. Solar cell electricity production is low during the dark and cold months of the year. Just when we need the electricity at most producing solar power at least. This also means that during the summer months we export an excess capacity at low prices and in winter we import expensive electricity. In the summer, production is limited by planned maintenance, storage of water in the warehouses and closure of certain facilities. In practice, this means that the subsidy money for solar power is a clean social cost, since Sweden exports electricity surpluses to markets where the price is lower than the cost. With the investment aid for solar power, Sweden is thus investing in production capacity when it is not in demand, and that is something we hardly think can be regarded as environmentally friendly or socio-economically effective. On the other hand, we would like to point out that the production of solar electricity can be and is both profitable and efficient in other parts of the world. This is particularly true in those countries where the solar power production profile is consistent with the demand profile and where the demand for electricity is greatest when the sun shines. Efforts in the future, for example, in research on solar power in Sweden should therefore be export oriented, to markets where the potential for solar power is much greater and where it is likely to naturally form a much larger part of the markets' energy systems. With this, Madam President, I would like to endorse reservation 2 in the report.
i-24edc55229ad000a-178	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 3. The fact that five parties in the Swedish Parliament have reached an energy agreement with a target of 100 percent renewable energy in 2040 is gratifying. To achieve this goal, a diversity of energy sources is needed. Wind power and solar power can constitute significant parts of such a system. At the same time, hydropower and biopower need to be the basis and flexibility, of course together with user flexibility and various forms of storage. Today, there is a relatively large number of support for households aimed at stimulating investment in green technologies. These aids are characterised by different conditions and application processes, where aid is granted and paid long after the investment in question has been implemented. The aid is also limited to a fixed amount of money that has been allocated instead of being constructed as a right. This leads to long waiting times, queues and uncertainty, which puts green investment at a disadvantage. Unfortunately, the waiting time for support for solar cells is now up to two years. Madam President, I would like It is therefore no wonder that the Swedish National Audit Office criticises the Government for the fact that the rules are difficult and that it requires regulatory simplification. A simple and effective instrument is needed that creates long-term and clear rules of play and can respond to the broad and rapidly growing interest in investment in green technologies that exists throughout the country. The Center Party therefore proposes replacing the parts of the subsidies that households can receive for solar cells, charging boxes and energy storage with a green deduction. We propose a quick and simple deduction that, like the ROT deduction, is made directly on the invoice. In this way, these climate investments would be much easier and faster than with the current system. Madam President, I would like We want more people to contribute to the green transition. Being able to set up solar cells is just such a chance. It is also clear that people who set up solar panels generally become more aware of their own energy consumption, which in turn benefits the transition. Of course, introducing a green deduction does not solve all the problems, but it is at least a step on the road to simplicity and clarity for consumers. It also brings us closer to the 100% renewable energy target.
i-24edc55229ad000a-186	Madam President, I would like It's not without being quite happy when you go around home, where you live, and see that more solar cells exist and that both individuals and companies invest in solar energy. This debate is not really about solar energy as such, but it is the review report that has been made that we should in some way respond to. The Swedish National Audit Office has based on two questions in its review: Has the Government and the responsible authorities prepared and reported a sufficient and transparent basis to facilitate informed decisions on the support for solar electricity, and has the overall support for solar electricity contributed to Sweden's goals in energy and climate policy in a socio-economically efficient way? After reading this, I have to say that the answer from the Swedish National Audit Office is no to both questions, which is sad. It is said that the review shows that the decision-making documents on solar electricity aid have not included sufficient socio-economic or long-term government financial analyses. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that in the absence of a socio-economic and state financial analysis of the overall support for solar electricity, the Riksdag has not received sufficient information prior to decisions on support measures. Having good basis when making decisions is extremely important in all matters. Even if we make decisions on which there is a great deal of agreement in the Riksdag, analyses and impact assessments are needed for us to know what decisions we make, what consequences we expect and what we should follow up. The Swedish National Audit Office's criticism is therefore, in my opinion, serious. The Christian Democrats welcome the fact that solar electricity has been supported for some time to speed up the development of the solar electricity market. This is needed to contribute to the target of renewable electricity generation by 2040. At the same time, however, it must not be at the expense of the sound use of taxpayers' money. Each crown should be used as sensibly as possible. For us to be able to do this, and for us to know if we are doing it, impact assessments and analyses are important. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that there are no socio-economic and fiscal analyses and that the Riksdag has not received sufficient information prior to decisions on support measures. Therefore, today we do not know whether the crowns invested in solar electricity are best used for solar electricity or whether these crowns had made more use of elsewhere or for any other type of energy. Despite the Swedish National Audit Office's sharp criticism of the government's forgone analyses, the Government chose in the spring amendment budget to provide additional SEK 170 million to continue to stimulate the expansion of solar cells, which has brought up the total funding framework for 2018 to billions. The government should analyse the overall support for solar electricity as proposed by the Alliance with a view to achieving a socially viable support. As I said, every crown should be used as sensibly as possible. Having said that, I am in favour of reservation 1 in connection with the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the overall support for solar electricity.
i-24edc55229ad000a-197	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Now we are here to debate the government's response to the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the overall support for solar electricity. In the run-up to this debate, I asked a friend why she thought we should support solar energy. She answered briefly: It's the future - my God! I think her words sum up most people's views on solar energy. Many are concerned about the climate; at the same time, solar energy is something people associate with belief in the future. Madam President, I would like Together with the Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats, the government has reached an energy agreement with a target of 100 percent renewable electricity production by 2040. We agree that Sweden will have a robust electricity system with high security of supply, low environmental impact and electricity at competitive prices. The Swedish National Audit Office has examined whether the overall support for solar electricity contributes to the energy and climate policy objectives in a socio-economically efficient way. The committee reports the government's response that a number of changes are currently taking place in the energy system, both in Sweden and at global level. The government believes that several measures are needed to reach the target of 100% renewable electricity generation by 2040. It is estimated that targeted support is needed to promote technologies that are not yet sufficiently competitive to stand on their own feet. Solel is such a technique. The Government also writes in its reply to the letter that it intends to give a detailed account of the reasons and effects of the overall aid for solar electricity. Madam President, I would like Many people see that the climate cannot wait and want to make an active effort to switch to 100% renewable electricity. Therefore, we now see that something of a solar revolution is taking place in our country. For me, it is self-evident that politics should follow up on this commitment and make it easier for people. In this case, it is aid for solar energy. Solar energy will play an increasingly important role in a future sustainable energy system, and there are many gains with increased solar energy production. It complements wind power – solar power production takes place mainly during the summer months, while wind power has greater production during the winter months. Solar energy production also means profits for both individuals and companies. I read about a family in Halland that after a year of solar cells had produced 80 percent of its annual consumption. Through smart solutions, they were able to replace their overproduction during the summer with electricity during the winter. Solar cells are a good opportunity for households to become autoproducers of electricity. We also see more and more companies investing in solar cells on their roofs. In Today's industry, we recently read about Apotea, which has built the largest roofing facility in Sweden. At the same time, solar electricity is still today a technology that is not competitive enough to stand on its own feet. According to the Energy Commission's final report, the expansion of solar electricity production has the highest production cost of renewable electricity. Without the support introduced by the previous government and the sharp increases in aid made by this government, I do not think that the interest in solar electricity would have been as great as it is today. Through targeted support for solar electricity as a technology, we are driving development. When the market is ripe, the aid will be phased out, just like the previous aid for wind power. Madam President, I would like We can also see exciting projects emerging as the solar cells on the roofs grow more and more. One example is Askersund Municipality. There, a project has been carried out on how micro-network systems may look in the future. Among other things, the aim is to equalise power output from the local grid at peak consumption, exploit variations in electricity prices in the electricity market and be able to deliver an uninterrupted electricity supply. The results show a reduction in energy costs and load on the electricity grid. Madam President, I would like We're facing a path. The investments we are making now on the solar power are not for here and now, but they are for the future. In 2017, solar electricity accounted for approximately 0.1 per cent of Sweden's electricity production. Many other countries are well ahead of Sweden when it comes to the production of solar electricity. Globally, we are seeing an increasing interest in renewable electricity production. Today, Germany is a leader in the production of solar electricity. They have a big head start. In the state of California, solar cells will soon become mandatory on newly built villas and apartment buildings. Based on the evidence that we are debating here today, it is important to have with us that, in a global comparison, the Swedish market has been sluggish in terms of solar electricity. I am convinced that, as the government says, the electricity market will undergo a major change in the future, both here at home and globally. It is therefore important that we invest for the future today rather than wait and react only when it is too late. The Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences submitted an interim report in 2016, reviewing four different choices for the Swedish electricity market. The four choices were: more sun and wind, more biofuels, new nuclear power and more hydropower. However, regardless of the route that could be read about in the report, I could see that they felt that there was a need for increased production of solar electricity, compared with what we have today. The support for solar cells has been gradually increased during the term of office, and the Government's PV investment for 2018 is now over SEK 1 billion. This compares with the 59 million granted to PV support in 2014. The waiting period for applications has decreased radically, while interest has increased. We think this is a good thing. Without the increased support for solar electricity, we would not have had this development. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, I would like to endorse the committee's proposal that the Parliament submits the Government's letter to the record, and I reject all motions.
i-24edc55229ad000a-215	Madam President, I would like The electricity market is not like any other market. In a market where production and use take place at exactly the same moment, it is not possible to store the product or postpone delivery, but it is instantaneous all the time. I think that the Social Democrats show a recurring lack of understanding of the physical laws surrounding the electricity market and how they work. They say, for example, that under 80 percent of the year you can manage with your own production of solar cells to pick back something else in winter. Apparently, it doesn't matter that 20% of this year's hours are quite many hours. Should more people think similarly, we would push away more of the power generation that industry needs to be able to credit us with a high level of security of supply in winter to import coal power from our neighbours instead. Germany is, rather, a horror example of what can happen when politicians are too tricky. It increases greenhouse gas emissions and builds new coal power, which is highly dependent on making the power system work. The difference with the Swedish power system is that it is completely fossil-free. There are no emissions from electricity generation in Sweden to talk about. We are the model of how other countries should build their power systems. It is interesting that the types of energy that are being put on extra subsidies with the investment aid for solar cells will help to increase greenhouse gas emissions. According to the UN Panel on Climate Change, solar power emissions are higher than those of nuclear, hydro and wind power. Then my question, Madam President, to the Social Democrats is: in what way will increased greenhouse gas emissions from the power sector strengthen Sweden?
i-24edc55229ad000a-220	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias, for the question. The reason why the emissions from solar cells are so high is that solar cells are currently quite energy-intensive to produce. The majority of production also takes place in China and Germany, where there is quite a large part of coal power in the energy mix. Potential for solar cells and an electricity system that is 100% renewable, the production of solar cells will in future reduce the emissions that they represent today. In this Assembly, we are five parties that are behind the energy agreement, where we say that we should have 100% renewable electricity production. I can note that the Swedish Democrats are not in the agreement. To push through a 100% renewable electricity system, where we will produce more solar cells in the future, is also a way to solve the problem of solar cell emissions. I have to go back to what Mattias said before he asked his question. He then mentioned my example with the family in Halland, which produces 80 percent of its energy consumption. Then my question to Mattias and the Swedish Democrats must be: Are you against Swedish households becoming self-producers of electricity and putting solar cells on the roofs? Is that how I'm supposed to see it?
i-24edc55229ad000a-226	Madam President, I would like Of course not, Karl Längberg. But it should not be done with my tax money and your tax money, but through an electricity market that is liberalised. There, operators will be able to contribute to new electricity generation, but it is the underlying electricity price that will guide what is to be built. It should not be politicians in this House who stand and point out what is to be built, but it is a market that should decide it. Recurrently problematic is the fact that there is a great cleavage here from the Social Democrats along with green activists. You want to build what you think is beautiful and nice, but you lack the connection and understanding of the physical laws that surround the power system. Here you pick out a single force, i.e. solar power, of which you will build a lot, and give this extra support in addition to what is available in the electricity certification system. The concern with a power system in a common market is that it displaces other power generation that will be needed in winter, as our demand for electricity is almost two and a half times as great as it is in summer. If we then push in something that produces 85% of its energy during the summer half-year and a very small percentage during the winter half-year, we end up with a lack of power. The Swedish National Business Authority Swedish Power Network warns that a power shortage is around the corner. The system development plan released last year indicates that there will be 400 hours of power shortage in southern Sweden. It is not about a day a year or two, but it will be half a month a year with a lack of power. There will be no conditions to work for an energy intensive industry in Sweden if you are to wait to produce depending on the weather conditions. Are you not at all concerned by the lack of impact that we see coming in the future and which is partly a consequence of the policy that you yourselves have pursued?
i-24edc55229ad000a-230	Madam President, I would like I thank Mattias Bäckström Johansson. Mattias addresses the lack of efficacy. On 15 June, we in this House will discuss the government proposal on the orientation of energy policy. It is precisely the need for impact and that challenge that is addressed quite a lot in that bill, so we will come back to that discussion. In short, through a more diversified electricity system, different technologies can complement each other and thus balance up and meet the challenges we have for the future in terms of electricity generation. Madam President, I would like According to the SOM Institute, over 80 per cent of the Swedish people want Sweden to invest in more solar electricity production. The interest in investing in solar cells is great in our country. Through targeted efforts, we are speeding up the expansion in order to achieve an even more diversified energy production. We think that is basically a good thing. It is a pity that the Swedish Democrats do not think the same. According to the Swedish Energy Agency, the production of solar electricity needs to increase to 5-10 per cent of total electricity use if it is to contribute to the target of 100 per cent renewable electricity generation. It is an objective that five of the parliamentary parties have set themselves, and I note once again that the Swedish Democrats are not part of this agreement. We believe that solar electricity will be able to contribute to meeting the future challenges of Swedish energy production. We think it's a good bet, and we're proud of it. We are probably as proud as the previous government was when it introduced its support. We are pleased that we have increased the support and thereby give more people in Sweden the opportunity to become self-producers of electricity through solar cells on their roofs.
i-24edc55229ad000a-236	Madam President, I would like In Sweden, solar cells are glittering on more and more roofs. It is clear that many people want to make a contribution and become producers of renewable electricity. The Swedish Energy Agency recently reported that the number of PV installations in Sweden increased by more than 50 per cent in 2017. Since the turn of the year, the government has increased investment support to 30 per cent of the cost, including for private individuals. Following this increase, it is reported that the number of aid applications increased by 400 per cent in the first months of the year. In the spring change budget, the government is sending additional funds, also aimed at the county boards so that they can speed up the payments to the many people who want to take part in the support. In total, the investment aid for solar cells amounts to SEK 1,085 million, which can be compared to the alliance government's SEK 59 million per year. This means that around 20 times more people can take part in the investment aid for solar electricity. It has never been as simple and profitable to put solar cells on their roof as it is now. With the Green Party in government, a lot has happened. The tax reduction, which provides 60 øre per kilowatt hour of electricity sold on the electricity grid from its own production, was introduced in 2015. The VAT requirement has been abolished. Previously, a self-producer of solar electricity had to report to the Swedish Tax Agency, but it is now removed. Tax exemption has been introduced for the microproducer producing his own solar electricity, even if he sells a number of kilowatt hours at different times, and within two weeks the Riksdag is expected to support the Government's proposal to remove the building permit requirement for solar cells on roofs. When we debate today the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the overall support for solar electricity, it is important to see the great differences in the parties' priorities for solar energy. The contributions made to the debate should be seen in the light of the fact that there are opposition parties which, in their draft budgets, substantially reduce investment aid for solar power. After all, the Moderates have slaughtered investment aid for solar power in all their budgets during their term of office. It is not a result of the Swedish National Audit Office's letter. The Swedish National Audit Office has three recommendations to the Government: develop more evidence to clarify the basis for technology-specific support for solar electricity, compare if other support would provide more renewable electricity generation and analyse and account for the long-term government financial impact of solar power support. Allow me to quote from the Swedish National Audit Office's letter that the Swedish National Audit Office's overall conclusion is that the evidence largely lacks socio-economic analysis and that the cost-effectiveness of the aid in relation to the objective of increasing renewable electricity production has not been sufficiently highlighted. ..................................................... Asking for more analysis in the cost-effectiveness data is by no means the same as not being cost-effective. The Committee Movement from the Moderates, Liberals and Christian Democrats states that support for solar electricity is not cost-effective. What they base this assumption on is unclear. They do not provide any basis for this conclusion. The Swedish National Audit Office is asking for more information. It is always good to have more basis for political decisions. I cannot come up with a single review from the Swedish National Audit Office that has not asked for more basis for political decisions. In its reply, the committee writes that the Government intends to give a detailed account of the motives and effects of the overall support for solar electricity. I welcome that. I doubt, however, that the forthcoming in-depth evidence with more analysis will change the opposition parties that cut back investment support, regardless of what the evidence shows. When the support for solar cells and other new technologies is to be evaluated on the basis of cost-effectiveness, the time perspective makes a big difference. The Swedish National Audit Office writes that a different design of the grants would probably provide more renewable electricity for the money. I agree with that assessment in the short term. But with such a starting point, the new technologies needed in the future will never develop to achieve our goals. Looking at what is most cost-effective at any time, new technologies would never develop. Such a short-term perspective would not develop the solutions that will help us achieve our energy policy objectives by 2040. In this context, it is important to recall the great state aid that was given to nuclear power when it was extended. In the analysis of the role and cost-effectiveness of solar energy, it is relevant to consider how today's support can develop solutions that cost-effectively contribute to achieving the target of 100% renewable electricity generation in 2040. It is also crucial to analyse whether more instruments are needed than those already in place. Different support for renewable energy is often compared to the electricity certification system, which is a very cost-effective instrument. However, the comparison is limping because the electricity certification system is limited to 18 terawatt hours by 2030. It is a piece of the puzzle in the development of renewable energy, but it is not enough – both because it does not support new technologies in its design and because more renewable electricity generation is needed than the 18 terawatt hours to achieve the long-term energy policy objectives. The government notes that more measures are needed to reach the target of 100% renewable electricity generation. The government believes that targeted support is needed to promote technologies that are not yet sufficiently competitive to stand on their own feet – solar electricity is such a technology – and I share the government's assessment. The Swedish National Audit Office's third recommendation was to report the long-term financial impact. As the investment support is a specified budget allocation presented each year, the committee notes that the financial impact of the state is thus known. The Swedish Energy Agency assesses the potential for solar electricity in Sweden to 7 – 14 terawatt hours in 2040. The higher level is about 10 per cent of Sweden's total electricity generation, and it would be an important piece of the puzzle to achieve the goal of a 100 per cent renewable electricity system. In reservation 4, the Moderates, Liberals, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats write that instead of investment aid they prefer regulatory simplifications. But what they mean by regulatory simplification is not clear. The building permit for solar cells is mentioned, and it is now being removed. On 13 June, the Riksdag is expected to support the Government's proposal to abolish the building permit requirement. What other regulatory simplifications the alliance parties can refer to are not clear, nor have I been able to see this in any other context. I welcome further regulatory simplifications, but I have not seen any concrete proposals from the parties saying that this is the alternative to investment aid. Allow me to comment on the incorrect reference made by the Swedish Democrats here in the debate to the trade organisation Svensk Solenergi. Trade organisations have been very positive that the government is spending more money to manage the queue that has been built up for many years and will now gradually be managed. I agree with the professional organisations that, in the long term, we should phase out investment aid when the technology is ripe. It should be easy to put solar cells on their roof. I agree with the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment that today there are difficulties for the individual to grasp the overall support for solar electricity. It is therefore positive that the Swedish Energy Agency's regulation letter for 2018 has been commissioned to develop an easy-to-use information platform that makes it easier for those who want to install solar cells on their roof. The platform should be a hub for public information relevant to the individual who wants to invest in the sun. The work is in full swing, and the first step has already been reported. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal that the Parliament should add the Government's letter to the record and reject the motions.
i-24edc55229ad000a-259	Madam President, I would like Colleagues and listeners! In report NU18, the committee is dealing with the government's letter, which we have discussed and which is based on the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the overall support for solar electricity. The Swedish National Audit Office has examined whether the overall support for solar electricity contributes to the EU's and the Riksdag's energy and climate policy objectives in a socio-economically efficient way. The Swedish National Audit Office's overall conclusion is that the evidence largely lacks socio-economic analysis and that the cost-effectiveness of the aid in relation to the objective of increasing renewable electricity production has not been sufficiently highlighted. In the letter, the Government reports its assessment on the Swedish National Audit Office's observations and recommendations. The Government intends to describe the overall support for solar electricity and its long-term financial impact, as well as the reasons for technology-specific support for solar electricity. The energy policy targets of 100 percent renewable electricity generation by 2040 and 50 percent more efficient energy use by 2030 will be followed up at control stations every four years, says the government, starting in 2018. With this letter, the Government considers that the review report has been finalised. I and the Left Party believe that solar power production is a type of energy that is worth targeting in the start-up phase, when it is not yet competitive enough to stand on its own feet. But of course you should evaluate such support and look at when it can be phased out. Madam President, I would like What is interesting and welcome is of course how the Swedish National Audit Office uses the concept of social economics. Taste the word – socio-economic! The Swedish National Audit Office also asks if the government and the responsible authorities have prepared sufficient documentation for decisions that hold socio-economic analyses. Taste those words – socio-economic analyses! This is very interesting and welcome, in my opinion. I am eagerly waiting for the Swedish National Audit Office to carry out audits that look at how socio-economically defensible it is to spend billions of tax on profit distributions to venture capital companies in healthcare and school companies, for example, or how socio-economically defensible it is to spend billions on letting tax funds renovate wealthy Swedes' kitchens and patios or piers at multi-millionaire summer places. These were just two examples where there is indeed no socio-economic analysis of the impact on society or, for that matter, the beneficiaries of the aid scheme. Madam President, I would like I look forward to further reviews from the Swedish National Audit Office where socio-economic analyses are really given emphasis and where the Riksdag receives answers to the consequences of different forms of support. I support the committee's proposal to add the letter to the file.
i-24edc55229ad000a-271	Madam President, I would like We are going to debate road and vehicle issues. It is a motion report, but I would like to take this opportunity to say what framework, in principle, all the issues in the Committee on Transport and Tourism have for us who represent the Green Party. It's not really just the Green Party – we have no monopoly on it in any way – but our foundation is the Paris Agreement. No one has missed the fact that climate change does not exist anywhere else or in any other time but here and now. This means increasing pressure on us to adapt our operations and to think in every way about how to ensure that future generations have a good life. Transport, of course, has a large part to play in this because 78% of oil imports go to the transport sector. What should we do to reach Sweden's commitment to become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries? In the field of transport, three strategies are, in principle, necessary. First of all, change fuel! On this we in the Transport Committee have produced a research report in which we have analysed very carefully various renewable fuels and electrification as a strategy to reduce the climate impact of the transport system. We have reached and agreed that all technologies should be put into use, but that biofuels should not be used in a way that conflicts with other environmental objectives. This necessarily means that we must have less energy use and a more energy efficient transport sector in order to meet the targets, because biofuels should not only be enough for the road transport sector. Even shipping and aviation need to switch to reduce their oil use and eventually become completely fossil-free. In addition to changing fuel, it is necessary to change the mode of transport, as the mode of transport is different in terms of energy efficiency. There, aviation is the most problematic and the railways and shipping are the least problematic. Now, however, we are going to debate road and vehicle issues, and then I will come to the approach to new technologies. In addition to changing modes of transport, we need to change social planning and lifestyles. In politics, we can do much to make it easier for people to make the right choices by taking better care of the railways and expanding them, ensuring that cities invite people to have public transport and bicycles in the first place and much more. But in the end, it is and should be the individual citizen who decides what it does. We all have a great responsibility when we choose the means of transport and destination for our holidays and how we commute to and from our work and studies. Sweden is a country that is well placed to succeed in this, and although it requires great conditions, it is possible to reach it. I wrote a motion which I submitted last autumn and where I suggested that Sweden should become a permanent world exhibition for fossil-free transport. This concept has gained hold, and I find it to my delight that more and more people are using it as an expression or a goal for how Sweden should be. It is important that what we do in the Committee on Transport and Tourism is characterised by this. You can interpret it in different ways, and one thing is, of course, to embrace new technology. This lies in what has been Sweden's tradition for a long time. There, Sweden is respected by other countries because we are good at developing and applying technology and exporting things with great technology content. This brings me to the question in the report, which may have the greatest bearing on developing new technologies, namely self-driving vehicles. I believe that Sweden was one of the countries that was the first to start trying to find applications together with the automotive industry. There have been and there are large research grants to, for example, Drive Me in Gothenburg and other projects to be carried out. The government has also taken the initiative to prepare new legislation. Jonas Bjelfvenstam has been commissioned to investigate – and has done so – all the changes needed to better take the technology for automated vehicles into use. However, we must respect the fact that these are major changes. Using new technologies to better detect cyclists on time and find the right distance between vehicles is one thing. Handing over responsibility to technology is another. I think there is a point in having great respect for the fact that it is always the driver who is responsible for the speed of the vehicle. Then the driver must also be able to control what is needed to avoid collisions and, above all, to minimise personal injury if there is a collision. I would therefore like to endorse the reservation made by S, V and MP on self-driving vehicles. Everything's not finished. People in general are concerned about the accidents that have taken place. When you use new technologies, you should do so with great understanding and knowledge of what has happened. Therefore, the trials must be properly evaluated and the remaining problems solved. And there are a lot of problems before you can make better use of new technology. Let me go over to heavy and long trucks. In committee, we have recently had a discussion on the road network. Roads are not only for trucks but also for cars, bicycles and other vehicles. In the Committee on Transport and Tourism, it is reasonable for us to take responsibility for all these categories of vehicles. The roads outside the big cities are perhaps essential for people to get to and from their jobs in a good way. It is important to find a balance between heavier vehicles and passenger cars in such a way that the roads are navigable as much of the year as possible. They should be able to do so without major maintenance needs. There is a point in ensuring that road, rail and shipping are used wisely and to use each mode of transport for what it is best at, so as not to unnecessarily make it more difficult in the small-scale and fine-meshed road network. It is also important to safeguard the need for the state funds that individual road associations receive today. In the Committee on Transport and Tourism, we also have a review report on the climate effects of the road network. We see great need in the future to secure road networks against the damage caused by prolonged rain and floods. During this year's spring flood, for example, several roads were washed away. It is a great responsibility to rebuild them and try as best as possible to secure the infrastructure for future floods and prolonged rain. This means taking the necessary responsibility for keeping these road networks in good shape. Otherwise, I support the proposal in the report.
i-24edc55229ad000a-287	Madam President, I would like Today is veteran day. I have had the privilege to guide a number of veterans who 25 years ago were in Bosnia. I would like to begin my speech by thanking them for their efforts. Madam President, I would like Let me return to the report of the Committee on Transport and Tourism 15. We are debating road and vehicle issues here. I would like to begin with, as the chairman of the Committee on Transport and Tourism has done, with the approval of reservation 1. The reason why we have a reservation is that the Alliance had a joint motion and that the Swedish Democrats were on demand 12. I would like to read this motion: our Parliament supports what is stated in the motion that the government should develop a strategy for self-driving vehicles during the current term of office and announce this to the government. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like When we make major changes, we in the Swedish Parliament usually investigate things. We'll send it out for a referral. The government sends a bill to Parliament that we are debating. Then we come to a conclusion that we decide on. What the government is to deliver before the end of its term of office is a report like what I am holding up now. Even Dostojevskij could have been jealous of these lines. There are 1,200 pages here. And before 9 September, when the Parliamentary Session is over, you will have time to come up with a strategy and make a decision on this. However, the consultation bodies have had time until August to go through and answer this inquiry. What is being done, Madam President, is nothing more than pure populism. They do so despite the fact that we have the order we have in Parliament. We're really investigating everything. And what is this also about? It is about the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats not accepting the zero vision we have in Sweden, which the entire Swedish Parliament has supported. Zero vision is the basis for Sweden being the most traffic-safe country. The Alliance and the Swedish Democrats obviously do not think that strategic work on how to get safe roads and safe traffic is worth anything. Instead, we want to speed up a strategy. I would like to read out just a few points from the report that are important in this context. These include criminal liability for the driver's concept, financial responsibility and digital and physical road infrastructure. These are just three small things in this, three short chapters of these 1,200 pages. And it's not just any thing, it's about safety on our roads and who takes responsibility in the event of an accident. But this isn't something the Alliance cares about. This is pure populism. This 1 200-page investigation has been handed over. It is now out for a referral. The relevant consultation bodies have been given the opportunity until August to review it and submit their replies to the Government. However, since the Alliance wants to speed this up, it may be thought that we are sitting and doing nothing apart from this investigation. I can then inform you that most of the infrastructure ministers in Europe on 4 June will be in Gothenburg to look at the project we have. Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth has invited them to a high-level meeting on self-driving cars and connected driving. On 4 June, everyone is invited to a hearing, where Scania, Volvo, Sweden's Åkeri company and the Transport Workers' Association explain how they view this development. No, this is obviously nothing, but you have to run populism. I find it regrettable that the Alliance is investing in that card, because it is a low-income that the Swedish democrats are following it. There's a reservation from the Alliance about individual roads that I was going to touch briefly. Let me see if I can read it, Madam President. It's so unclear. The Swedish Parliament supports the motion to provide the right conditions in terms of regulations and the application and response of the authorities to ensure that the individual roads that receive state subsidies have a good standard, the right route, good bearing and the required winter course, and this announces the Swedish Parliament to the Government. It is rather fluffy, Madam President. What do you really want with this? In the Government's regulation letter to the Finnish Transport Administration, there is a 1989 decree. During all these eight years when the Alliance ruled, you would have had the chance to do something in that area if you wanted to. But nothing has been done, but the 1989 regulation is still in force. No changes have been made. On the other hand, a government that really sees the countryside is the cooperation government that we have today, Madam President. 200 million is allocated for the maintenance of roads in rural areas. This is in the regulation letter to the Finnish Transport Administration from a government that sees the countryside, invests in rural areas and does things to make things easier for people in rural areas and equates them in life with those of us who do not live in rural areas. This is very important. Madam President, I would like I have crossed the limit of my speaking time and do not want to be the one to be lectured by the President for exceeding my speaking time far too much. But I would like to remind you once again that these 1,200 pages are not something you should drive too fast. It's not a self-driving investigation, but you need to take proper responsibility for this.
i-24edc55229ad000a-299	Madam President, I would like Today is veteran day. Today we honour everyone who has fought for Sweden with civilian and military efforts for peace and security. Thank you for everything you've done! Madam President, I would like I shall move on to today's report. The development of new vehicles and new opportunities is taking place very quickly, and we must now take advantage of this. Newer cars become safer, more environmentally friendly and smarter and create completely new opportunities. The technology for self-driving cars goes furiously fast and is soon a matter of course. Electric roads are tested out, which means that more and more roads need to be electrified. This will further increase the possibilities for the car and radically reduce the environmental impact. When designing new roads, it is important that we also think about the vehicles that will operate them. How do we make future roads and electric roads safe for cars, trucks, motorcycles and other vehicles that will run them? These are important issues that need to be resolved and planned for, and this is where we see a great passivity in today's current social democratic government. We Moderates and the Alliance want to develop a clear strategy for how we manage to take advantage of future technical solutions. It must not be the case that the inaction of politics is holding back the development of this country. Madam President, I would like The government does not concentrate its work on the future and its opportunities, but instead devotes itself to raising taxes, imposing bans and forcing people to move from rural to urban areas. The government's policy focuses on combating cars, trucks, aircraft and more. It does not invest so much in maintaining our roads and railways, but plans instead of unprofitable high-speed trains in Sweden. We Moderates see the car, the other vehicles and the roads as a matter of course in the future. Madam President, I would like The government imposes taxes on transport and on the people who have to have the car for it to work. The Social Democrats have raised petrol and diesel taxes so that they are now record high in Sweden. The government has introduced a flight tax that strikes them with long distances throughout the country, and plans to introduce a new truck tax that will threaten jobs, businesses and growth throughout the country. This anti-car and rural government must be replaced on 9 September. Madam President, I would like We Moderates and the Alliance want to take advantage of technological developments and ensure that we are at the forefront when it comes to self-driving cars, electric roads and new fuels, for example, for aviation, but we do not want to tax those who today are completely dependent on cars and trucks for it to work. The new technology not only makes it easier for car owners but also offers new opportunities for our car and truck manufacturers here in Sweden. This can give new jobs in Sweden. Let's take care of this! That is why, in the Alliance today, we have an announcement to speed up legislation that will make it easier for vehicles of the future. Unfortunately, we have heard here today that the Social Democrats are trying to stop this together with the Green Party and the Left. They have a reservation against this proposal. Madam President, I would like We Moderates also work to take advantage of the possibility with longer and heavier trucks. They are good for the environment, strengthen competitiveness and create the necessary development for our major truck manufacturers in Sweden. We need a government that understands how important it is that we strengthen the haulage industry and companies in the country through longer and heavier trucks. Today's Social Democratic Government and its pace of work are getting other countries away from us. This weakens our competitiveness. Madam President, I would like We must also look after our cultural heritage. We have about 200 000 cars and motorcycles that are over 30 years old. It is important that we make it easier for those enthusiasts who care for our rolling cultural heritage. Hobby is both costly and labour-intensive, and efforts must be encouraged by society doing what it can to facilitate this activity. We Moderates are on the side of the owners of veteran vehicles in this work. Our rolling cultural heritage must be preserved and safeguarded. Madam President, I would like The Moderates and the Alliance are behind a joint reservation to make it easier for municipalities to remove and act against cars dumped in nature. We Moderates also believe that property rights need to be strengthened, so that the landowner who has a vehicle placed on his land has the right to move this vehicle away. The government has been working for almost three years to find solutions to this with dumped vehicles, but unfortunately nothing has happened. The government's inaction threatens ownership and the environment. This is most regrettable. Madam President, I would like Another important issue is our individual paths. About 43,000 kilometres of the Swedish road network are individual roads. It is commons and landowners who care for these roads. They do a great job without support from society or with very little support. It is about many hours of care without compensation. They run the roads so that people can move freely in our great country. People should be able to go to the countryside and to the forest. There is always a road, but it is often not in the hands of society, but it is landowners and road consensuals who do so with an extremely low contribution to the business today. There is also great concern today that the state and the Finnish Transport Agency are trying to transfer responsibility for roads from society to the private sector in order to reduce their costs. This is, of course, totally unacceptable. Society must take responsibility for our infrastructure and ensure that we have navigable roads throughout the country. Madam President, I would like I support reservations 3 and 8.
i-24edc55229ad000a-311	Madam President, I would like I heard Sten Bergheden referred to the environment. Therefore, after the post Sten Bergheden has done quite curiously what Sten Bergheden thinks one should do to reduce the climate impact by 70 percent by 2030. It is an agreement we have reached across party boundaries. It takes a lot of effort. I mentioned some of them in my speech, but I did not hear any such proposals from Sten Bergheden. I wonder what the Moderates have for strategy and if Sten Bergheden can develop it.
i-24edc55229ad000a-312	Madam President, I would like I would like to correct the request I made in my speech. I request the approval of reservation 2 of the Moderates and Center together and of reservation 8. Madam President, I would like Karin Svensson Smith asks me what our strategy is. That is a bit of what we put forward in our proposals in terms of investing in electric roads, biofuels for aviation and new technologies with self-driving cars and other things. That is our development. You can't believe you're getting a development if you put high taxes on a business that needs that money. The companies that develop this must be able to drive forward and achieve profitability in their operations. The people living and living in the country must be able to move and create the growth needed throughout the country. You are levying a tax on parts of Sweden that are slowing growth in the country. This means that we have less money overall to develop the things we have to do in the country. If jobs fall and move abroad, it is not we who will save the climate, but then it will deteriorate. We hope and believe very much that the new technology will help us to achieve the goals ahead. That's why we're pushing the government for a few more months to keep it going. Today it is policy that is holding back development because there is no clear direction, signal or strategy forward. The only thing you work with is new environmental taxes from the business instead of working with: What is our responsibility? How do we get the electric roads? How do we get the regulations for self-driving cars? How do we ensure that the resources available in society are coordinated so that they really move forward? The government is only concerned with raising taxes and believes that this is the solution.
i-24edc55229ad000a-318	Madam President, I would like Sten Bergheden is sorry, but I did not think it was very clear what strategy the Moderates have to reduce the climate impact from the transport sector by at least 70% by 2030. I heard most of what you don't want to do. Sten Bergheden then criticized the government. It is possible that one can criticise the government. But there are over 60 decisions about giving people and municipalities the opportunity to reduce their dependence on oil. These are urban agreements, industrial life and climate change. All those things are that you act in harmony with your surroundings. We give without controlling from the state opportunities when you decide locally that you might want a biogas pump or a charging pole. All these appropriations have been rejected by the Moderates and removed in their own budget. I can only see that this makes it difficult for people to drive electric cars or use biogas locally. This applies, for example, in Skaraborg County, where it is excellent for biogas production because you have agriculture, small-scaleness and a certain car dependence. I think that Sten Bergheden must try again to explain to me and those who see the debate how the Moderates intend to get away from oil dependence in the transport sector.
i-24edc55229ad000a-323	Madam President, I would like Let's start with the biogas. We can produce much more of it if we increase the number of animals here in Sweden. Your policy goes contrary to that part. You want to introduce meat taxes and various taxes on diesel and other things that reduce production in rural areas. Rather, your anti-rural policy reduces the possibility of biogas. You in the Green Party think it's coming from heaven. No, it takes animals and other things up ahead to pick it up. You are opposed to this in your other policies. For our part, it is about longer and heavier trucks. It solves a lot. Your policy is to slow down the development of trucks. You want shorter trucks. You want to go down to the EU level of 18.75 metres when we already have 25.25 metres. Rather, you want to increase the environmental load with shorter and more trucks. Your policy is not connected. You believe that the taxes in Sweden come from heaven, but they do not. They come from our companies and people out there who are engaged in development and investment. That money says you're bets on your part. No, it is our companies and people who have treasured that money. That's the limit I've made. You call it your environmental leaps here and there. It will not solve it, it is the technology out there and that people can keep their money in the companies and work on. You are investing in a high-speed train instead of electric roads. Why doesn't the Green Party drive electric roads to the full? That will still be the solution for the future. That's what everybody talks about. But that's not what you want to do. You want a high-speed train that nobody has asked for and which will eat up all the infrastructure investments in the future. It is also unprofitable and does not make sense anywhere in the world. That is what you intend to do, and you want taxpayers to pay for it. No, thank you, Madam President.
i-24edc55229ad000a-330	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats see great value in young people taking an interest in and learning about vehicles. For many professions, whether primarily in front of vehicles or not, both driving licences and driving skills are meritorious. It is therefore important that we encourage young people to obtain a driving licence and highlight the value of it and support young people in their motoring interests. The Swedish democrats view the use of mopeds as a way for young people, under safe conditions, to get used to driving and develop an interest in motor vehicles while contributing to personal freedom. Unfortunately, mopeds are usually expensive today, and often even the price of a cheap small car exceeds that of a cheap small car. This is partly due to the strict regulatory framework which, among other things, provides for a maximum weight of 425 kg in running order, which means that mopeds must be designed according to weight optimisation requirements. This, in turn, leads to low crash safety. The Swedish Democrats want the current rules to be changed to allow heavier mopeds. This would mean both higher crash safety and lower price when existing small car models could be used as a basis. Madam President, I would like Since the 1970s we have had the A-Tractor registration form in Sweden. This was a way, after strong protests against the abolition of the epatractor, to continue to use slowly converted cars for easier transport. Today, however, the regulatory framework is dated. The Epatractor was originally a way of enabling cheap agricultural machines. At present, this type of use is virtually non-existent. Instead, the A-tractors are currently used mainly by young people. They are most common in rural areas where the distances to socialization, school and shops are large. This brings freedom to many of these young people and promotes responsibility and motoring interest. It is therefore important that the possibility remains. However, the rules for A tractors are still designed for the old purpose of epatractors. Among other things, the regulations stipulate requirements regarding speed that allow the vehicle to drive at a maximum speed of 30 km/h in practice close to the maximum engine speed. This is extremely inefficient, draws far more fuel and leads to higher emissions than is necessary. Since the A tractor has to be built by an approved passenger car, crash safety is already ensured at significantly higher speeds than 30 kilometres per hour. This means that, from a safety point of view, there should be no reason either for drivers or passengers that vehicles should not be allowed to drive faster. From this month onwards, A tractors will be subject to inspection requirements. It is a mandatory requirement from the EU that ensures that vehicles are roadworthy. It will be an environmental gain and a road safety gain to increase the speed from 30 kilometres per hour to 45 kilometres per hour. In addition, there are today mopeds which can be driven at 45 kilometres per hour with driving licences which also apply to A-tractors, so from the point of view of education there should be no obstacles. In addition, a higher speed is desirable from the point of view of road safety, as a relatively wide A tractor on ordinary roads creates frustration and usually leads to dangerous overtakings by the drivers behind it. Madam President, I would like With these words, I would like to support all our reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservation 5.
i-24edc55229ad000a-341	Madam President, I would like I was going to ask Per Klarberg if you in the Swedish Democrats have answers to all the questions. The study contains 1,200 pages of questions about the future of the legal framework. What happens if an accident occurs? Who's in charge? Who owns the vehicle? Who's the driver? Do you have answers to all these questions when you think that a strategy should be developed before the end of this parliamentary term? Is that why you keep up with the reservation... because you have all the answers to the questions?
i-24edc55229ad000a-343	Madam President, I would like It is true that we support the reservation. At the same time, however, we had views in committee precisely on the wording that it would be during this term of office. But this is a way for us to tell you how important it is to get rules on autonomous vehicles going. We have experience of Jasenko's party and investigators and investigations: It has taken 3.5 years to investigate twelve-hour extensions of classing. My question to Mr Jasenko is therefore: how long do you need this time?
i-24edc55229ad000a-346	Madam President, I would like I thank Per Klarberg for the question. That is exactly what is important. This shows how much you understand the meaning of the question – to compare it with autonomous vehicles! They're going around for themselves in our country. Trucks and cars are supposed to drive themselves in our country, and you compare that with classing and the time of that. I find that irresponsible. I now understand that the Swedish Democrats are as they are. They're a populist party that keeps up with anything that sounds a little populist. In your speech you talk more about epatractors than about this. You haven't even mentioned this. It's mostly about epatractors. That is why I am concerned when the Alliance takes the support of the Swedish Democrats on this issue. Tomorrow, Madam President, they may want us to have self-driving vehicles around the country without having secured the basics. It is about criminal law and financial responsibility. Nothing is secured. But this is what they want us to do tomorrow. That's what they want us to do now. And the Alliance takes the support of the Swedish Democrats, who go up to the pulpit and talk about epatractors instead.
i-24edc55229ad000a-349	Madam President, I would like I have a counter-question, which Jasenko in itself cannot answer now: Which one of us should be most worried-- is it you or me? I get worried when you have opinions about what I say in Parliament's pulpit, because you have nothing to do with that. That's up to me. I'm paying for this. We can see that the current government is not fast. And we can see that the policy and the authorities have not been involved in the development of autonomous vehicles. For this reason, we support the Alliance's motion. We want it to go fast, or faster than it does today. We believe that the current government is investigating about as quickly as a snail crawls when, as in my example, it takes 3.5 years for you to investigate extended clumping by twelve hours.
i-24edc55229ad000a-351	Madam President, I would like Let us continue the discussion on self-driving and autonomous vehicles. That was very exciting, Madam President. As a representative of the Center Party, I believe, together with the Alliance and under the opposition of the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party, that it is good that, on our initiative, the Riksdag should make an announcement against the passive attitude of the current government regarding the future of autonomous vehicles in our country. The issue of autonomous or self-driving vehicles has been addressed in a number of investigations and by a number of different authorities. These have highlighted, among other things, the need to amend the legal framework in order to facilitate the market introduction of automated vehicles. It also proposes further analysis and encouragement of existing experiments and demonstration objects. They are needed to facilitate the introduction of traffic eventually. The study, which recently appeared on the table here, indicates that an increased degree of interaction between the various actors involved will be necessary in order to find the comprehensive solutions for freight transport and passenger transport in urban and rural areas that can contribute to urgent transport, environmental and social objectives by means of autonomous vehicles. Madam President, I would like In the future scenarios of the National Road and Transport Research Institute, it is believed that politics in our country is lagging behind. There is a great risk that motor vehicle congestion will increase and rural, small towns and outlying suburbs will lag behind and not get much of the benefits seen with autonomous vehicles. It is therefore a good thing that tomorrow Parliament will decide to push for a reluctant government on this issue too. I and the Center Party are convinced that the development of self-driving vehicles will have profound consequences for the whole road transport system. It is therefore important that the overall policy takes account of technological developments when new legislation is eventually developed. The ongoing test operation with self-driving vehicles in Gothenburg, among other places, shows that Sweden is at the forefront of technology development. But why do social democrats, environmentalists and left-wing parties not want to accept this? If there is no proper regulation, the risk is that the development of these modern vehicles will instead be transferred to other countries. This also means that new solutions and standards will be developed. There will be standards that Sweden and our industry will gradually have to adapt to. In view of the challenges described above and in order to ensure that Sweden will continue to be able to assert itself in this area, a strategy for self-driving vehicles is therefore needed. The announcement does not imply legislation. This means that the government must come together to adopt a strategy for self-driving vehicles. Such an on-site approach will facilitate and speed up the implementation of this urgent transport solution. It will be good for the environment, and it will be good for our society, for our industry and for development throughout the country. On behalf of the Centre Party and the Alliance, I therefore think it is good that the Parliament should address this announcement to a government which is surprisingly passive on this issue. When you talk about road issues, you can also easily get into transport efficiency in the form of heavier and longer transport vehicles. Well-functioning road transport is, according to my view and the Center Party's view, crucial for many of Sweden's companies and industries to continue to develop. By using both longer and heavier vehicles, we can streamline the transport of roads because the same vehicle will then transport more. This means that fewer trucks are needed to carry out the same work, and that is something that everyone realizes reduces emissions, congestion and climate impact. In addition, it contributes positively to the economy of industry. It is now permitted to use trucks with a total weight of up to 74 tonnes. The Swedish Parliament has made it clear to a reluctant government that it is the carrying capacity of roads that should be crucial for which parts of the road network are opened up to this type of vehicle. However, we note that the possibility of using these heavier vehicles is currently very limited as only a small part of the road network has been made available. On behalf of the Center Party, I think it would be more reasonable for us to increase the possibility of using heavy goods vehicles. The Finnish Transport Agency already knows which roads could be reinforced with relatively simple measures to make heavier transport possible. If more road sections are opened for 74-tonne trucks, it will also be possible for hauliers to invest in a new fleet of vehicles. It is once again an example of a passivity in looking at the conditions of industry, environmental work and the countryside. There is inaction in the current cooperation government. Longer lorries, Madam President, are another opportunity to make transport work more efficient. Here the Riksdag has previously addressed an announcement to the government on this issue, most recently in April last year. The government was then urged to urgently review how longer vehicle trains could be allowed on the Swedish road network to a greater extent than today. We can note that the Government has subsequently decided on amendments to the Traffic Regulation to enable longer and heavier vehicles or trains to travel during a trial period. In my opinion, however, this is not enough. Experiments with longer combinations have been made in the forest industry with very good results. Attempts are also made with long combination for transshipment between trains and warehouses within the trade in Västergötland. All experience shows a very good result in terms of lower fuel consumption, increased profitability for industry and reduced emissions without increasing wear and tear on the road network or the risk of traffic. Longer trucks are good for the environment and strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish companies, jobs and the economy. Madam President, I would like Let me say something about individual roads. Mr Jasenko was amusing that the Centre Party and the Alliance had reserved themselves and, in particular, raised the need for supervision, regulatory change and attention to individual road maintenance. Madam President, I would like I think that the Social Democrats should visit the parts of the country – Västerbotten, Norrbotten and certainly also Västernorrland inland – where individual road keepers this winter have had their snow clearance laid down by the entrepreneur. It is a very difficult situation for people who after a severe spring tide and frost loss have to look forward to a winter when no one takes on winter road maintenance. There is reason, Madam President, that the Parliament also devotes its attention to individual road maintenance. It is about 43,000 km of the Swedish road network. Seven hundred of them receive state subsidies and are therefore common to all of us to go on. A well-functioning infrastructure for motorways as well as for individual roads, capillaries and the core road system is an absolute prerequisite for the country's development and survival. I thought, Madam President, that the representative of the constituency of Västernorrland in this House had more insight into the conditions of the heavy industry and the forest industry than to mock a reservation with particular attention to individual road maintenance. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say a few words about unattended vehicles. As a representative of the Center Party, I always defend good road safety on our roads, but unfortunately I am forced to note that traffic-related crimes in many respects jeopardise the achievement of the traffic targets we have set for safety. In many contexts, it is about drivers who drive unattended and perhaps also dangerous vehicles, which poses a risk to fellow road users. In view of this, it should be examined what measures can be taken to tackle the problem of unattended vehicles. These may include more stringent penalties for driving an unsaid vehicle, increased chances of confiscating unwanted vehicles and possibly also preventing the vehicles from being disposed of by people in such a way that they are guilty of repeated crimes. These are a series of measures so that you do not face untaxed or untaxed vehicles, possibly driven by someone who is not qualified. Madam President, I would like Of course, I agree with the reservations that the Center Party and the Alliance have added to the report, but for time savings I only ask for reservations 10 and 11.
i-24edc55229ad000a-372	Madam President, I would like I thank my honourable colleague, Anders Åkesson, for the invitation to a change of line. I respect, almost respect, my colleague, but I am a little concerned about the language. It was said here that we are reluctant to self-driving autonomous vehicles. It is synonymous to reluctant and disobedient. Is this investigation the evidence? It is the only investigation – regardless of what the colleague says – that covers the whole issue of autonomous vehicles and self-driving vehicles. Is this investigation to be repulsive? 1,200 pages. As early as 2015, the investigation was set up. Now we've got it, and it's been a referral. But that's not enough. Now Åkesson wants to hurry. Does Åkesson think that the work we have done on the zero vision is worth nothing – just to get through an announcement? Next Monday, ministers from EU countries will come here to look at the work that has been done. Is it worth nothing? We are considered to be so much behind, but which country has legislation in place?
i-24edc55229ad000a-377	Madam President, I would like What we are asking, Mr Jasenko, is to move from words to actions. It is not only Bjelfvenstam who, on behalf of the government, has investigated the issue. He's delivered a very solid investigation. The Road and Transport Research Institute has been boning and wrestling with the issue for a very long time. The Swedish automotive industry, Scania, Volvo, Volvo Cars, in clusters with researchers, are deeply involved. Concrete trials are under way, Platoon runs have been carried out in EU projects, and it is great that a high-level meeting is carried out in Gothenburg next week. But what we're asking for is some action. I do not know, Madam President, whether there is internal opposition in the cooperation government to making road vehicle transport more efficient, which possibly hampers the government from acting rationally and quickly. Then Jasenko can feel the support of a parliamentary majority. He has support in my back and others who want to push for Sweden to continue to be able to protect our successful automotive industry. The key to that lies in this. Now I want to hear Jasenko's views on individual roads. I am surprised when a Member from Västernorrland, who hosts heavy industry such as SCA, expresses his surprise at the alliance parties' commitment to the fine forest road network. At home in Småland we usually say that it smells like money when it smells from the pulp industry. I think they say something similar in Västernorrland. Much of the wealth we have in our country comes from the basic industries. And they are completely dependent on a functioning transport apparatus. I'm surprised, Jasenko.
i-24edc55229ad000a-383	Madam President, I would like I'm not a believer. But Gud save me that moment and the day we get to make decisions in this House based on the VTI investigation, which is a small investigation. This investigation, which I am now showing to Members of this House, is thorough. This is taking responsibility. This is doing the job properly and not getting through. That's what I want to say about the investigation. When it comes to the second, I would love to take that ball from Åkesson. He and the Center have voted against 200 million more for the maintenance of rural roads. He has also voted in favour of the introduction of BK4 throughout the country. I usually call SCA the FC Barcelona of the forest industry in this House, and that is a high class. BK4 means, for the forest industry in Västernorrland and for SCA, that we must invest in strengthening the High Coast Bridge, which the industry has zero interest in. The forest industry in Västernorrland has zero interest in it. For example, it is the sawmill in Bollstabruk that you have to come to. And there's not a single way to do it with BK4. In this House, however, Åkesson is voting for all roads to have BK4. This means that three four bridges on the E4 in Västernorrland need to be reinforced in order to be able to run on them with 74 tons. It does not help the world-class forest industry that we have in Västernorrland. It is regrettable that the Alliance has voted for this.
i-24edc55229ad000a-388	Madam President, I would like There is reason to inform Mr Jasenko that we have not voted yet. But it will be that way. SCA, as well as the forest industry in South Sweden, needs a system of roads. Right now, we have five pieces of road identified. That's good, but it's not enough. This also means that the riders will not invest in vehicles because the secondary value of the vehicle bought for a contract to transport to SCA has no value outside the ball where BK4 exists and is allowed. That's the problem. Madam President, I would like In order to get this moving, we have said that the Swedish Transport Administration should be pushed forward. It is possible that the High Coast Bridge is not the first to be prioritised. However, a number of other bridges need to be reinforced, even in the fine - meshed road network. Madam President, I would like The head of the Road and Traffic Research Institute and the investigator of the thorough investigation against which Jasenko leans is one and the same person: Jonas Bjelfvenstam. He is not known for his time as Director-General of the VTI or as an investigator. I have great confidence in Jonas Bjelfvenstam and the investigation. We have not asked for legislation. We have asked for a strategy that takes care of the good intentions in the investigation, in previous investigations by VTI and in research results from the Swedish automotive industry over a long period of years. More action is needed in the government.
i-24edc55229ad000a-394	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by drawing attention to the fact that it is veteran day today. Of course, the thoughts go to the veterans and their families. Madam President, I would like I shall now turn to the report. I agree with all the Liberals' proposals, but for time to come, I only agree to reservation 11. Road and traffic issues play a major role in the society of the future and contribute to mobility. The issue has become more topical as a result of the recent problems with the railways and the chaos experienced by many. It shows that we need to have a variety of solutions in order for people to make their way when parts of the transport system do not work. Traffic on our roads performs many functions, but of course it also has challenges in relation to the environmental and climate issue. Self-driving vehicles will have an impact on development. It provides smart mobility solutions without even having to own a car. Transport will be flexible and on demand. The future is filled with exciting opportunities. But Parliament needs to do more if this vision is to be possible. Too little has happened in this area. Could it be that there is some lack of interest in the possibilities of autonomous vehicles? There are other strategies that have been developed in other transport areas. The proposal put forward by the majority of committees regarding the announcement is that the Riksdag announces to the Government that it will urgently draw up a strategy for self-driving vehicles. We in the Liberals think that this would be very important. The committee believes that the implementation of this urgent transport solution will be facilitated and accelerated by a developed strategy. Here the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party have reserved themselves. Why are these parties so negative? It states in its reservation that we would like to point out that in recent years the issue of autonomous or self-driving vehicles has been thoroughly addressed in a number of contexts. For example, the Swedish Transport Agency, Trafikanalys and the Swedish Road and Transport Research Institute (VTI) have thoroughly highlighted various aspects related to the introduction of this new transport solution. ..................................................... In addition, the parties write in their reservation: a report above shows that the issue of self-driving vehicles is well-attended and that urgent initiatives have been taken in this area. Against this background, the Parliament should, in our opinion, reject all the motions for resolutions under discussion here. ..................................................... This is where you can feel that there is not enough commitment. We, the majority of the committees, are pressing for a strategy to be developed. Investigators have also pointed to the long-term benefits of self-driving vehicles. They are not primarily affected by technological progress, but mainly by the function of self-driving vehicles in society, i.e. their effects on the traffic system and social planning as a whole. It is therefore important to estimate possible scenarios for the future of self-driving vehicles at an early stage, such as VTI. On the basis of these scenarios, a discussion can then be held on how rules and instruments should be used to achieve the greatest possible societal benefit. Designing a strategy means drawing up a roadmap for autonomous vehicles. A strategy is a plan, a structure, a methodology or an approach. This is what the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party say no to. This is important in order to be able to create instruments to reach the vision of mobility. It is about self-driving, climate-smart and environmentally-smart vehicles that come on call and that can also contribute to the wider development of society. If anything, this would be an important reform. Care should be taken to facilitate the introduction of autonomous vehicles. Opportunities are opened and mobility increases. It would be an important reform to introduce. A strategy is needed for this. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say a few words about the heavy-duty vehicles, which are also part of the mobility issues and the transport system in Sweden. The government's original proposal meant that the road network would be limited. It became more like a ball than a large road network. It had to do with the carrying capacity. It was also considered that there was a transfer risk to other modes of transport. We on our part did not think it was reasonable. Instead, we mean that it is the carrying power that should determine whether 74 tons of cars should be able to roll on the roads. It is a more climate-smart way to carry a lot of cargo at once. We in the Liberals would like to emphasise this in our reservation. For the business community, coherent strands are of central importance. An overly narrowed road network forces carriers to transship, which hampers the intermodality of the transport system. The use of these vehicles is limited, which does not make it easier for transporters to invest in new and heavier trucks. The positive environmental impact of using heavier vehicles that can load more is limited, and we find this regrettable. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say a few words about the abandoned vehicles. There are problems with the removal of abandoned vehicles on municipal land. This is a problem that the municipalities have to deal with. But the box is empty of action, and it may look terrible. Today's regulations make work unnecessarily difficult for municipalities, which means that in many cases it takes a very long time to remove vehicle wrecks. We in the Liberals believe that the regulatory framework needs to be amended so that municipalities can act more easily against cars that have been abandoned or, in some cases, destroyed, which can be done in the context of crime or insurance fraud. This is an important opportunity that the municipalities should be given. Madam President, I would like Earlier in the debate, the issue of individual roads was mentioned. I, too, would like to raise this issue, which concerns very large parts of Sweden. The Swedish road network consists of 43 000 km of individual roads, while only 10 000 km are state-owned and 4 100 km are municipal. They play a major and important role in the transport system. Those responsible for the individual roads are road keepers, such as individual landowners, road associations or community associations. Of the 43,000 miles, 7 700 km are granted state subsidies to meet the needs of roads and to maintain a high quality of transport. A well-functioning infrastructure is a fundamental prerequisite for living rural areas. We must include this in the debate on the transport system. The individual roads are an important part of this because they enable about 1 million people to get to and from home and work every day. That is why the issue needs to be raised. The individual roads also facilitate access to outdoor activities for the general public as well as the conditions of the tourism industry in the country in addition to what is important for industry. They are also an important part of the transport industry, which in many cases depends on individual roads. This fine-meshed road net must be durable and have a good standard for bearing and load. Madam President, I would like Today's debate makes it clear that there are different priorities in Parliament. For some, road traffic is always a problem even in areas where alternative modes of transport are lacking. For the Liberals, road traffic is part of the solution. Autonomous, climate-smart and fossil-free vehicles will create opportunities. Electrified roads will be able to contribute to climate-smart freight transport. It provides more freedom, more choice and more and more climate-smart transport. Mobility is a good thing.
i-24edc55229ad000a-422	Madam President, I would like I will not extend the debate so much. But I still have to read out what Nina Lundström supports in motion 12 in motion 3894: ..................................................... If it had been something like what Nina Lundström described in her speech with the word hastily, then I do not think it would have been a problem for us to agree on this. Had it been said that we should now urgently bring this out because the industry is on – and there has been an investigation and in August the referral bodies will come back with their answers – then we would have said that we respect the order that we have in this House. The referral bodies have their say, and then the government can come up with its proposal. Sometime in October, November or December, the next parliamentary term, we can do this. Perhaps we could now have agreed on this in this House. But it is not about what Nina Lundström makes in her speech, that is, that this should be done quickly, but about this being done during the current period. That is the problem, Nina Lundström.
i-24edc55229ad000a-424	Madam President, I would like Then I would like to read aloud from the report we are discussing here today. On p. 10 under the heading Self-driving vehicles it is stated in the decision point in the box: On p. 14 of the report, the committee concludes its position with the following wording: ..................................................... This is where it gets very strange. The report states exactly what the majority of committees want. I think it would be good to concentrate on a strategy. I know that the government has often stressed in other contexts regarding other strategies that the strategy itself is important. So do I. I think strategies are important. Then the question is what content you fill them with. But strategies are important. I also listed what I think a strategy is. That is why I have been so surprised in the debate to hear not least Jasenko Omanovic actually argue against a strategy. Why would he do that? We're going to need a strategy. There is a lot of investigative work that has already been done. It is also included in your reservation. I therefore believe that the next step should be to develop a concrete strategy. Everyone who has looked at the issue also points out that one must have a methodology in order to get all the pieces of the puzzle in place. It is here that I am very surprised that the debate has shown that it is so negative on the part of the government parties. Then the question arises: Why?
i-24edc55229ad000a-429	Madam President, I would like I do not know whether to read again from the Alliance's motion, to which the Swedish Democrats called for approval, namely that the government should develop a strategy for self-driving vehicles during the current term of office. We do not follow the order that we have in Parliament. Is this not the motion that you have written together in the Alliance? That is what you called for when we sat around the table in committee. That is why I feel that this is not right. Madam President, I would like Nina Lundström wants to see BK4 all over the country and therefore be able to drive 74-ton vehicles all over the country. Nina Lundström says that you want to add more resources to individual roads and be able to use individual roads to a greater extent. But when I look at the Liberals' budget, there is no additional money for maintenance. As I described at the turn of the line with Anders Åkesson, it is actually the case that when measures are taken throughout the country, it is European roads and bridges that involve the greatest costs. Thus, all the money is taken from the opportunity to invest in the last straw out in the country.
i-24edc55229ad000a-432	Madam President, I would like I simply note that the report has been dealt with in committee. There has been every opportunity for Mr Jasenko to take a position on the texts of the report. And the report says it urgently. Then I think it is perfectly reasonable that this term of office should at least have a strategy in place with objectives and methods. However, the report is the text on which the government parties have had to take a position. It would have been very good if you had joined this. On the question of bearing capacity, too, I note that it is going to be very strange. It has taken a long time, and a number of restrictions have been introduced for the use of the road network. What we in the Liberals are saying is that it should be possible, on roads where there is bearing capacity, to open up to this rather than having just a few balls, because it affects so much negatively at the other end. When the government parties took the decision, I noticed that it was not the bearing that was important, but other factors that influenced it. I think it is very important to also look at how Finland has done in terms of how it has opened up the roads and done reinforcement work and in terms of signage issues, the possibilities of digitalisation and more. You can also learn from other countries that have gone ahead. I think it is important for Swedish industries to have long-term sustainable regulations that are clear and transparent and that you know why and when you open up the road network. But it is the carrying power that should be decisive and not the other reasons that the government parties have put forward. Madam President, I would like There is a lot more to say about road and traffic issues. But the important thing for us from the Liberals is always to emphasise that the regulations should be clear and transparent, whether they are autonomous vehicles or other types of transport. We believe in mobility. It is crucial for Sweden to grow and for the whole country to be able to live.
i-24edc55229ad000a-440	Madam President, I would like A national strategy for autonomous vehicles is necessary to stimulate development in this area. In several cities in Europe, driverless minibuses roll on certain public roads. These buses run a certain distance with fixed stops and timetables, and the projects have been successful. This shows that driverless buses operate in the ordinary urban environment and are more environmentally friendly modes of transport. With self-driving cars, car sharing will increase, resulting in fewer cars and less carbon dioxide emissions. Self-governing vehicles could also facilitate commuting and carpooling for those who depend on the car. As the vehicle controls itself, you will also be able to work while driving, and more will probably choose this type of travel pattern. Madam President, I would like There are also some tests in the field of self-driving goods transport, and this will eventually contribute to more efficient and environmentally friendly freight transport. In the near future, more freight transport could then be automated between different hubs in the transport chain. As with electric vehicles, Sweden has every opportunity to be a pioneer country for self-governing vehicles. We have world-class car and truck manufacturers and a good starting point. Already today, self-governing vehicles drive on our roads in trials, and these trials need to be expanded. Madam President, I would like The issue of autonomous or self-driving vehicles in traffic has been addressed in a number of investigations by various authorities in recent years. We would like to draw attention to some of the conclusions presented by the Report on Self-driving Vehicles on the Road in March 2018 in its final report The Road to Self-driving Vehicles. The study points to the need for some changes to the legal framework to facilitate the market introduction of automated vehicles. These include adapting the rules of the Traffic Regulation, the Roadmark Regulation and the Camera Monitoring Act for automated driving. Furthermore, the study proposes further analysis and encouraging the experiments and demonstration projects needed to facilitate self-driving vehicles in traffic. The study also suggests that an increased degree of interaction between the actors involved will be necessary to develop concepts for comprehensive solutions for freight transport and passenger transport in urban and rural areas that can contribute to important transport and social objectives. The Christian Democrats see great profits and cost-effectiveness in the freight transport of self-driving vehicles. More freight transport could be automated and will contribute to more efficient and environmentally friendly transport and to increased growth and profitability for the transport industry. The ongoing test operation with self-driving vehicles in Gothenburg shows that Sweden is at the forefront of technology development. We also welcome the Drive Me project, where about a hundred families will have the opportunity to test and use self-driving cars in everyday life. The challenges are many on the road to self-driving vehicles, which is why the Christian Democrats are calling for a strategy for self-driving vehicles. A majority in the committee believes that Parliament should address an announcement to the government, meaning that it should urgently develop a strategy for self-driving vehicles. Madam President, I would like In practice, the government's original proposal on which road network to be opened for the new BK4 carrier class means that 74 ‐ ton trucks would only be allowed to run on 8 per cent of the Swedish road network. Last week, the Swedish Transport Administration informed the committee that the ambition is that 12 per cent of the road network should be open to transport by 74-tonne trucks in the near future. The aim is to make most of the road network available for heavy goods vehicles where there are social benefits. Of course, we welcome this from the Christian Democrats. However, to make this possible, some investments will be needed, and mainly bridges need to be strengthened. The Christian Democrats believe that the Finnish Transport Agency should urgently make the necessary investments in roads and bridges to enable 74-tonne trucks such as freight transport. Madam President, I would like It is important not to restrict heavy goods transport only to a certain part of the road network. The carrying capacity shall determine whether or not 74 tonne trucks are to be allowed. For business, it is essential if coherent routes can be opened up because an overly narrowed road network obliges transporters to transship, thus reducing the possibility of more efficient transport. If the use of these vehicles is restricted, transporters will not dare to invest in new heavier trucks. Of course, it is good if rail and shipping are used to a greater extent for freight transport if possible. Sweden is an export-dependent country with long distances, and the Swedish basic industries need all modes of transport. The Christian Democrats want to emphasise that the transfer between different modes of transport takes place in several directions, and often good road connections are a prerequisite for goods being transhipped to shipping and rail. We would also like to point out the positive environmental effects of using heavier vehicles that can load more. Trucks of 74 tonnes reduce emissions per tonne of goods transported as more goods can be transported per journey. It contributes to fewer trucks on the roads, reduced environmental pollution and reduced CO2 emissions from the transport sector, which is necessary to achieve the goal of a fossil-independent vehicle fleet in 2030. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats also want to allow longer vehicle trains in the Swedish road network, for more efficient transport. We note the changes made by the government to the traffic regulation for a more generous exemption for vehicle vehicles of up to 30 metres, and we welcome the work being done to allow this type of vehicle carriage on the road network. The Christian Democrats look forward to vehicle trains of 30 metres in general being allowed in the near future, for more efficient transport. Madam President, I would like Individual roads make up 43,000 km of the Swedish road network, while only about 10,000 km are state-owned and 4 100,000 km municipal. Those responsible for the individual roads are road keepers, such as individual landowners, road associations or community associations. Of these 43,000 km, 7 700 km are granted state subsidies to meet the needs of roads and to maintain a high quality of transport. A well-functioning infrastructure is a fundamental prerequisite for living rural areas. The common understanding within the Alliance is that the individual roads are an important part of this because they enable about 1 million people to get to and from home and work every day. The individual roads also facilitate access to outdoor activities for the general public, as well as the conditions of the tourism industry in the country. They are also an important asset for the transport industry, which in many cases depends on individual roads. It is therefore necessary for the government to take greater responsibility for the maintenance of individual roads for increased safety, sustainability and a good standard. Madam President, I would like I support the Christian Democrats' reservation No 3 and the Alliance-wide reservation No 11.
i-24edc55229ad000a-457	Madam President, I would like Today is veteran day, and we honor all military and civilian veterans who have participated in Swedish international efforts for peace and security. Today, we are also debating the Committee on Transport's report on maritime affairs, which includes the Government's proposal on revised rules for inland waterway vessels and about fifty motions from the general period of exercise. It is also the last time for the term of office that the committee, in its current composition, is debating maritime issues. It is therefore appropriate to make an evaluation of what has happened in this area over the last four years. I am pleased that all parties have a positive attitude towards shipping and its importance for Sweden's development. 85% of Sweden's foreign trade is transported by sea. Maritime transport is not just a mode of transport; it is an industry – which employs many people. It is said that on every job at sea there are four jobs on land, in the maritime equipment industry and in the service areas linked to shipping. We have agreed on the ambition that a larger part of our transport should go by sea. One of the things that has separated us in committee, however, is our various possibilities to directly influence the government; we who represent the opposition have for obvious reasons not had swing doors into the Ministry of Industry. We have therefore used the instrument of announcement to force the government to meet the committee, for example on the issue of effective sanctions against those who violate the sulphur directive. Unfortunately, the government has been very slow, and the system of sanctions is still under preparation. The issue of the risks of non-compliance and the effects of competition and relocation will be re-activated when the global cap of 0.5% comes into force in 2020, or even earlier if the price of ship fuel is raised. There are also other issues that have been far too long in preparation in the Government Office. In December 2015, the Government commissioned the Swedish Transport Agency, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Maritime Authority to investigate what is required to enable a simpler and less costly ship registration. The assignment, which was reported at the end of 2016, advocated a public authority-wide web-based flag-in portal. A year and a half have passed, and the proposal is still being prepared within the Government Office. We in the Alliance believe that, in addition to a simplified flag-in procedure, all government contacts should be made easier, including through the introduction of a one-stop shop. It is still a major problem for shipping companies not to be able to obtain advance rulings as to whether they are eligible for maritime aid. This leads you to uncertainty, and in many cases they refrain from registering ships in Sweden. We can't afford to lose ships whose owners are considering flagging Swedish. In fact, since the statistics started to be collected 50 years ago, there have never been so few Swedish-registered larger cargo ships and passenger ships. In the last year alone, the merchant fleet decreased by 2%. Another thing that separates the government parties and the opposition is access to information from the Government Office. We do not know when the new national infrastructure plan will come; perhaps one of the colleagues from S or MP can clarify the debate? And when this infrastructure plan is presented, will it contain much-needed efforts to facilitate transport to and from ports? To make efficient use of waterways, trains and lorries need to be able to get through. I will give two examples from Skåne. The first concerns the railway ferries in Trelleborg. They are threatened by closure, partly due to reduced volumes and partly due to infrastructure deficiencies. The second example concerns the traffic situation at the entrance to Ystad harbour. It is chaotic, and often very long queues are formed. I also hope that the national plan contains initiatives that ensure sufficient depth in the ports of Gothenburg and Luleå. Madam President, I would like Two weeks ago the Transport Committee visited the Swedish Maritime Administration, the Swedish Maritime Administration and Rise, regarding the fairway fees. Fairway charges have long been a concern for shipping, and this is not just the view of the industry. In fact, Trafikverket, Sjöfartsverket and Trafikanalys admit that the charging model reduces the competitiveness of shipping as a mode of transport. The issue must be resolved at government level. The Swedish Maritime Administration has high costs and a pension liability, which means that the Swedish Maritime Administration must increase its revenues. To do this, charges for commercial shipping need to be increased. This is therefore the same commercial shipping as there is a complete political agreement that we should make better use of it.
i-24edc55229ad000a-473	Good examples can be found at close range. Finland has halved its fairway dues, and most of Europe's countries have no fairway dues at all. Pilotage charges are also a problem, especially in view of the development of navigation technology. Both fairway and pilot fees are an obstacle to barge traffic, which makes brave attempts to establish itself in Sweden. The barge ships are locked up on their inland waterways, in loops between ports, easier berths, industries and more. Traffic is a direct alternative to the truck. Why, then, should barge traffic automatically be included in the Swedish Maritime Administration's fairway fee system? The barge ships are high-tech. They have very good manoeuvrability, and the commanders know their waters. They are connected and can receive support from country if necessary. This could be an excellent opportunity for the Swedish Maritime Administration to launch projects for land-based remote piloting. Madam President, I would like We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservations 2 and 3.
i-24edc55229ad000a-478	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that we are in favour of all our reservations, but for time-winning, we are only in favour of reservations 4 and 10. I have to say that the previous speaker, Mr Boriana, was very clear in his speech. I agree with most of what Boriana said. We must give shipping the opportunity to carry much more goods than is being done today. Maritime transport has the capacity to carry much more goods than it does today, and ports have the opportunity to take care of this. Given how much coastline there is around Sweden, shipping should be the obvious option for transporting goods, not least given how tight it is on roads and railways. Historically, people have chosen to settle by water, precisely because it has been easy to transport. A lot of people also live on the coast. However, the maritime operator also knows that enormous costs are being borne. For example, we can look at the SECA directive: all of a sudden, the sulphur content was reduced to 0.1%, creating enormous costs for shipping. Now shipping was lucky, because oil prices fell right at the time of the introduction of the SECA Directive. They had to install scrubbers and make up new fuels, such as methanol and LNG. This has not been entirely devastating for Swedish shipping; it has also succeeded in exporting technology. It is gratifying that the IMO is introducing tougher environmental regulations all over the world, not just for us up in the north. Of course, we believe that the whole of Europe should be covered by the SECA directive. Madam President, I would like Of course, there are other expenditures that also weigh on shipping, including fairway charges, port charges and pilotage charges. In 2014 – 2015, something called inland waterways was established, which had been excellent to run barge traffic from Gothenburg to Lake Vänern and from Mälaren to Södertälje lock. This traffic could have been used much more, but hardly anything has happened at all because of all the charges. Here we can actually help shipping by removing fairway charges, at least for a little while to get barge traffic started and see how it works. The barge traffic can be used for so much. You could use barge traffic to transport construction materials. It could be used in cities, especially in Stockholm, surrounded by so much water, to remove snow masses instead of carrying them throughout the cities during the winter. Why are inland waterways not freed? Madam President, I would like It is not just costs that are an obstacle to shipping. Infrastructure is also a major obstacle. The locks in Trollhättan and Göta River have a deadline in 2030. If these locks are not replaced, there is a great risk that shipping will not be able to operate from Gothenburg up to Lake Vänern at all. It is not only the locks but also the landslide safety that is important on the Göta River. It is important not only for the ships but also for the water supply all the way down to Gothenburg. It is very important that work is started to replace these locks. Infrastructure is important also in other ports and not only for inland traffic. It must be possible to get to and from ports by land, both by road and by rail, and be able to carry on by making the larger ports into hubs so that the smaller ports can carry their goods to the larger ports where it is then shipped out to the rest of the world. This applies to both freight ports and passenger ports. I am thinking of the port of Stockholm, which has huge quantities of cruise ships and needs to get passengers off in a light and convenient way, or, for example, the port of Ystad, which I have been discussing with quite recently, where you have two-plus-one routes to get out of the port. There are huge queues and problems for Ystad as a whole. Coastal shipping needs help. It would have been very nice to see coastal shuttles go along the Swedish coast and pick up goods in the various ports to end up in Trelleborg, Ystad or Gothenburg and then carry the goods on to the continent or perhaps to the USA, China, Japan. The problem today is that fairway charges are so huge that ships pass through ports because they cannot afford to go in there and pick up the goods. We must do something about this, Madam President. It's not okay. Boriana spoke earlier about the Swedish Maritime Administration and its new charging model. It is not reasonable for some shipowners to have cost increases of up to 200%. We Swedish democrats want to act and review the possibility of making the Swedish Maritime Administration a little different. We want to make the Swedish Maritime Administration, which is today a business, funded. We were with the Defense Committee at a meeting with the Navy. There we asked if they were interested in taking over part of the business. They were very interested in taking over the helicopter operations and also the Coast Guard. Of course, I asked the Swedish Maritime Administration how they view this, but of course they want to keep their business. But we must do something, and the Swedish Democrats are prepared to review the possibility of restructuring the Swedish Maritime Administration. Sweden and Finland are the only two countries with fairway fees. Finland reduced the fairway fee when the SECA Directive was introduced, but Sweden did not. I am sorry to see that my speaking time is running out, Madam President, so I am staying here. But it is important that we do more for shipping.
i-24edc55229ad000a-494	Madam President, I would like Now it was shipping time. There is no doubt that when Swedish shipping works as it should – when ports deliver, are open and function as they should – we do not see and hear much of it, but it is nevertheless extremely important for the whole of Sweden, its industry, development and ability to compete with other countries and continents. A strong merchant fleet is needed for several reasons, not least to enable good exports and imports for our country, but also from an environmental point of view and for maritime safety. With a strong Swedish-flagged merchant fleet, Sweden can also influence the design of the international rules for shipping and its employees. I myself, the Center Party and the Alliance would like to emphasise that people's entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship are crucial for jobs and development throughout the country. In this context, we can note that government supervision and approval, for example through the Swedish Transport Agency, is sometimes a prerequisite for a company to start and operate. In this respect, maritime transport does not constitute an exception. When designing tariffs for state supervision and approval, it is important that this is done from an efficiency perspective based on the user of the tariffs and the system. I would like to point out that many in the transport sector feel that government contacts are complicated and that they can be very costly. Here shipping is no exception. The administrative burden on operators in the shipping industry risks hampering the development of Swedish shipping. Madam President, I would like I am absolutely sure that Suzanne Svensson, who represents the Social Democrats in the debate, like the rest of us, is very committed to the fact that contacts with the Swedish Maritime Administration will be able to tell us what the government is doing to get the tariff system that Swedish shipping has had to work on and that risks leading completely out of the interests of shipping and Sweden. The Center Party and the Alliance believe that there needs to be a one-stop shop for the required government contacts. A single contact into the world of government will suffice to reduce as much as possible the bureaucratic burden on the industry. This should be part of a larger package where the government also reviews the possibility of simplifying the flagging procedures for those companies and ships that want to flag Swedish once again, all in order to strengthen Swedish shipping and thus Swedish industry. The previous speaker, Jimmy Ståhl, mentioned the example of the locks in Göta River. It is an object with which we members of the Committee on Transport have been confronted for a very long time, and we know that the design is under way to replace these locks. Over the past few weeks and months, we have also been eagerly awaiting the national transport plan that the government is currently reasonably working on. It has been called that it will come at the end of April, next week and in the near future when we have asked questions to Minister of Infrastructure Eneroth. The national transport plan reasonably includes the locks in the Göta river as an object. If they do not, it is a disaster for shipping in Lake Vänern and Göta River as well as for water supply in Gothenburg, and this increases the risk of landslides in Götaälvsdalen. Madam President, I would like I assume that Suzanne Svensson or possibly Karin Svensson Smith will also give notice to the committee and Parliament on this point. Are the locks in the Göta River part of the national transport plan that the government is obviously arguing about right now because it is not coming? Increased inland navigation will allow land transport infrastructure to be unloaded. This, in turn, gives room for the overall volume of good to grow, and we know that it will grow. Strengthening the competitiveness of shipping also helps Swedish shipping to develop, grow and remain innovative. A transhipment of goods from, for example, road to sea is also good from a climate perspective. Low-speed freight transport at sea has less climate impact than road transport. It also means less burden on already heavily burdened land transport such as rail and road. For example, fuel use, as mentioned earlier in the debate, is lower for barges than for corresponding road transport. Better conditions for Swedish shipping thus play an important role in achieving more sustainable transport. It should therefore be stressed that the promotion of our inland waterways must be a priority in order to increase the share of sustainable transport. An important signal to send to those who work with transport on our smaller sea routes is a message about the lock projects in Göta River. Perhaps that is the most important signal right now, as the whole industry is waiting for. What's taking the government so long? I myself, the Center Party and the Alliance believe that the Government must give much more priority to the strengthening of inland navigation than it is today and to counteract Swedish special rules that both increase and make the use of inland waterways more difficult. Of course, I support the reservations expressed by the Center Party, but for the winning time, I only ask for reservation No 1.
i-24edc55229ad000a-509	Madam President, I would like I support all the Liberal proposals, but for time to come, I only support reservations 3 and 9. For us to achieve the climate targets, greenhouse gas emissions must be reduced, not least in the transport sector. To achieve the ambitious objectives for the transport sector, effective instruments are of course needed, but other measures are also needed. From an energy point of view, water is the best way to transport large freight flows. Next comes the railroad, truck and plane. Madam President, I would like Swedish shipping is a very important industry for Sweden's development and competitiveness, and it is of great importance for the Swedish transport system. A strong merchant fleet is needed for several reasons, not least in order to enable good conditions for imports and exports, but also from an environmental and maritime safety point of view. Through a Swedish-flagged merchant fleet, Sweden can also influence the design of the international rules for shipping and its employees. We would like to emphasise that people's entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship are crucial for jobs and development throughout the country. Maritime transport is of great importance to the Swedish transport system. We have, on the one hand, important goods transport and, on the other hand, a lot of passenger transport. Liberals hope that shipping will become even more environmentally and climate smart in the future, and we also look forward to increased electrification. Increased inland navigation leads to a reduction in land transport infrastructure and the creation of capacity for the overall volume of goods to increase. Strengthening competitiveness also helps Swedish shipping to continue to develop and grow, and we hope that shipping will also have a high rate of innovation. A transhipment of goods from, for example, road to sea is also good from a climate point of view. As low-speed freight transport at sea has less climate impact than road transport, the development of maritime transport is an important contribution to achieving climate objectives. Better conditions for shipping thus play an important role in achieving more sustainable transport. We would therefore like to stress that promoting our waterways must be a priority in order to increase the share of sustainable transport. In conclusion, we believe that the government should give priority to strengthening inland navigation. Madam President, I would like As has been said, increased inland navigation leads to off-loading of land transport infrastructure and the release of capacity. Much of the maritime infrastructure is already in place, but priority must be given to further investment in our inland waterways, as previous speakers have mentioned. This applies not least to new locks in Trollhätte canal, which is a prerequisite for a functioning shipping there. We too are very concerned about what it will look like in the future. When will the letter that will tell you what will happen to the locks in Trollhätte Canal? It is imperative that planning, design and construction be carried out at such a pace that the new sluice-gate will be completed by 2030 when the technical lifetime of the current sluice-gates is estimated to be definitely over. How else is that supposed to work? Of course, it is gratifying that it is proposed that the work to replace the locks in Trollhätte Canal begin during the planning period, but it is directly worrying that the entire project does not seem to fit within the same planning period. The proposal leaves final implementation and funding behind 2029. How is that possible? The risk is then obvious that the current locks will have to be removed before the new sluice-gate is completed, resulting in interruptions in shipping. It doesn't make sense. Madam President, I would like As regards fairway charges, which many speakers have mentioned, it is important to note that better conditions for Swedish shipping play a major role in developing more sustainable transport and that it also helps Swedish shipping to continue to develop, grow and have a high rate of innovation. For example, the Swedish Maritime Administration finances the winter maintenance of transport routes through fairway charges. There is an urgent need for a review of the financing and the design of fairway charges. There is also an important perspective on environmental change. How can these charges help to reward environmentally and climate-smart measures? Not long ago, I had an interpellation debate with the Minister for the Environment, and I was then able to see that there was an interest in a review. It remains to be seen whether there will be any response from the government parties in this debate on fairway fees will be reviewed or not. Madam President, I would like It is important that transport to and from ports is also efficient. If shipping is to become more competitive, it needs good accessibility to our ports. Trains and lorries need to reload in ports without difficulty in order to make full use of the waterways. Liberals would also like to stress that the four-step principle is an important issue to be taken into account also with regard to maritime investment. Good resource management is important. Madam President, I would like The Baltic Sea is an important issue for many of us in Parliament. The Baltic Sea is also sensitive from an environmental point of view. We have come a long way in terms of emissions and waste water from shipping, but more measures need to be taken. The Baltic Sea means a lot to all of us who live and work around this sea. We in Sweden should work together with the other Baltic Sea countries to further review the requirements regarding emissions that need to be introduced. We in the Liberals hope that in the long term, not least through EU cooperation, we will do everything we can to eliminate the international traffic of heavy oil that still exists and which emits a lot of particles. Economic instruments should also be considered for maritime transport, but in order to promote them. Therefore, for example, fairway charges are an important issue. Finally, Madam President, waterways can sometimes conflict with the need for sensitive environments to be protected. This could involve protecting the marine environment or dealing with issues such as beach erosion and many other things that affect those who live locally. It should therefore be possible to take account of those present in the sensitive areas. Shipping is important. Here we need to do much more on the part of the Riksdag to take account of the opportunities for the future.
i-24edc55229ad000a-532	Madam President, I would like Swedish shipping is a very important industry for Sweden's development and is of great importance for the Swedish transport system. A strong merchant fleet is needed for several reasons, not least in order to enable good conditions for imports and exports, but also from an environmental and maritime safety point of view. Through a large Swedish-flagged merchant fleet, Sweden can also influence the design of the international rules for shipping. According to the Swedish Transport Agency, approximately 90 per cent of Sweden's foreign trade, measured in volume, is transported by sea, which means about 180 million tonnes of transported goods. In addition, approximately 30 million passengers per year are transported by ferry to and from Sweden's neighbouring countries. The Swedish maritime sector and all its surrounding companies employ approximately 100 000 people. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats want to increase the competitiveness of Swedish shipping. Swedish waterways are under-utilised today and should be used more for freight transport. The railways are under increasing pressure today and are not enough. The railways need to be maintained more, and new investments in new main routes must be made to cope with freight and passenger transport by rail. Compared to road transport, maritime transport is an environmental benefit. If more goods are to go by sea, the inland waterways and the infrastructure around them need to be upgraded. Today, shipping pays for the maintenance of its transport routes through fairway charges and ice mining. The Christian Democrats share the industry's concern about this. Consideration should be given to how the financing of ice mining in particular, but also fairway and pilotage charges should be used to promote competition neutrality for all modes of transport. Madam President, I would like Swedish shipping operates in a global market where international rules set the rules for Swedish shipping companies. Rapid technological developments and increased globalisation of the economy and trade have a significant impact on shipping as an industry. The fact that Parliament previously decided on the introduction of tonnage tax has contributed to the fact that more Swedish registered shipping companies are now flying the Swedish flag. Hopefully, the transition to tonnage tax, introduced on 1 January 2017 and promoted by the Christian Democrats, will help to increase this trend in the future. Madam President, I would like The challenges for Swedish shipping are great. The main issue is that the costs of the industry must be reduced. Swedish shipping must be given good conditions and competitive taxes, charges and regulatory relief. This is essential for maintaining and increasing the number of Swedish registered vessels in Sweden. Today, shipping companies may have to turn to a variety of authorities, and the contact with the authorities is too often bureaucratic. The Christian Democrats therefore want to introduce a guarantee that companies will only have to submit one task once to the authorities, where the information will then be passed on to the relevant authorities. This would reduce the time that shipping companies need to spend on administration. Madam President, I would like We would like to point out that the Baltic Sea is a particularly sensitive sea area and is an important transport route for, among other things, oil transport. Oil spills continue to cause problems in the Baltic Sea, and it is very important to create clear incentives to avoid oil spills. The Christian Democrats therefore believe that the fines for discharges of oil into the Baltic Sea should be increased. In addition, provision should be made for all oil transported at sea to be labelled with DNA so that it is traceable from which a ship has an oil spill, in order to fine those who violate laws and regulations. Madam President, I would like Public transport in water can relieve the traffic routes of municipalities and regions. Maritime transport causes less CO2 emissions and is an environmentally friendly and efficient means of transport that can transport many travellers in large cities. Waterways are currently under-utilised and have the potential to enable future residential and labour market areas. To make this possible, it is important to include boat commuting in the planning of the future infrastructure, to make quays available and to have a ticket system that includes both public and individual operators' passenger traffic on water.
i-24edc55229ad000a-544	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats believe that inland waterway transport should be stimulated and strengthened, and inland waterways should be given priority in the field of freight transport. The capacity of domestic goods transport by sea needs to be increased. The Maritime Administration, in cooperation with the municipalities concerned, should develop a plan to make more freight transport by inland waterway accessible and possible. We would like to stress that new locks must be built in Trollhättan, Vänersborg and Lilla Edet in order for Vänerssjöfart to work. The current locks, to which one of the other speakers was speaking, are due by 2030. Similarly, efforts will also be needed in other fairways and locks. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, we believe that the Government should give priority to strengthening inland navigation and counteracting Swedish special rules that make transport via water more expensive or more difficult. Madam President, I would like In doing so, I would like to support the Christian Democrats' reservation 8 and the alliance reservation 3.
i-24edc55229ad000a-547	Madam President, I would like This is the last time I debate shipping here, and I would therefore like to give some thought to how shipping was handled when I started in the Parliament in 1998. The shipowners' association then represented shipping, and it cannot really be said that it was a spearhead of environmental work. We had a situation in the Transport Committee where each transport industry came to us and talked about the errors in the other ways of moving. There has been quite a change here. Swedish Maritime Transport is a modern organisation that realizes that one can be a constructive part of a fossil-free transport system where one complements the road and railway. This development can be greeted with joy. Why is shipping a constructive part of a system where you have less oil and climate pressure? Well, it is mainly due to the low friction between ship hull and water that allows you to move very large quantities of goods with little energy if the boat goes at a reasonable speed. In addition, the air resistance is small, which makes shipping very climate-smart. Further motivation for investing in shipping is the time perspective. We have very little time to change and use less oil in the system. The waterway is in place. It is cheap in both investment and maintenance compared to all road-based transport. It is no secret that we in the Green Party are fond of rail, but it takes some time to expand it. Then we must use shipping better. It exists now. People sometimes complain and say that Sweden is far away and that we have a geographical disadvantage. I'd say we have a big advantage. We have a long coastline, longer than most European countries. We have 52 ports, which, after all, are very well-functioning, and we should use them much more than we do today. What needs to be done to enable shipping to use its potential in what will eventually become part of a fossil-free transport system? I thought I could make eight suggestions as to what can be done to make better use of shipping. Number one is that we must have fair prices between the different modes of transport. This makes it seem to me that the alliance parties have moderate credibility when they speak to maritime law but do not say a word that it is reasonable that road transport should also pay for the wear and tear that they cause in the infrastructure. If, like you in the Alliance, we want to reduce taxes, we cannot say that all charges should also be reduced. Someone's supposed to pay for the infrastructure. It would be reasonable to introduce road wear and tear charges, mileage taxes or something similar, and to create justice between modes of transport. With fair prices, shipping would get a ride. It is also reasonable to introduce bonuses for those who reload. It can be called transhipment support, eca-bonus or eco-bonus. Italy has such a notified system, and we in Sweden will also introduce it. This means that those who choose shipping instead of the road can get a bonus for it. It is a very good system, which the government has included in its budget. The details of how it will be introduced will soon come. It is also reasonable to treat the different modes of transport equally. Sweden's Åkeri company does not pay for the motorsport in Sweden. I think most people would find that completely unreasonable. In fact, commercial shipping in Sweden pays a great deal of the costs incurred by leisure shipping. They have protested against this, and I think they should protest even louder. It is not reasonable for merchant shipping to be involved in paying what pleasure boat owners should pay for themselves. The fact that the Swedish Maritime Administration can impose its charges in this way and tax commercial shipping is not fair compared to what it is like in road transport. As far as the fairway charges are concerned, we in committee have been rather disgruntled by the way in which they have been handled. Much more could be done in the case of fairway charges and perhaps in the case of something similar to the bonus-malus system. It doesn't have to cost the state a crown. Increase the fee for those who do not invest in the future! Then you can use it to make it more advantageous for the ferry traffic between Helsingborg and Helsingör, for example, which has made major investments in the use of electricity or those who have invested in LNG. It is highly reasonable that they have lower fairway charges, which can be financed by higher charges for others. It is reasonable that cruise ships and oil safes pay more so that the forward-looking shipowners who invest in the future receive lower fees. It must pay to do the right thing. A number of investments are also needed. Some have been mentioned here before. This applies of course to Trollhätteslussarna, but Malmporten is also very important to be able to use shipping for the important tasks that exist in such a commodity-heavy country as Sweden. The Hjulsta Bridge is also important for better use of Mälaren for transport. These were five economic instruments, but there are also legal instruments, which can most significantly contribute, or changed regulatory systems. First of all, we have pointed out from the committee that Sweden has implemented the European regulations on inland waterways on paper. In practice, however, not a single shipping company has been approved to use it. Then why haven't more people searched? Well, that's because we have such small areas that have been approved as smaller waterways with the rules that exist for manning and other things. Whole stretches should be approved as smaller waterways. Then we could use Göta River, Lake Vänern and the Mälar area to relieve the road system from, for example, transportation of stone, sand and gravel. That could do a lot. Tray traffic is modern and efficient. We can also abolish compulsory pilotage. It feels terribly old-fashioned that we have such a system of rules. If you can use modern systems to control aircraft so that they come up and down as they should, there is no reason for anyone to board boats to be pilots. This system should be replaced by a safety-motivated pilot when necessary. Not everyone should have to be forced on this old-fashioned system. It could also be envisaged to impose requirements on those who will approach ports so that they use the road, rail and maritime in an appropriate way where each mode of transport is used for what it is best at. At least when we were in Rotterdam in the Committee on Transport, I was very inspired by the fact that those who were going to visit the new part of the port of Rotterdam had a mandatory requirement that at least half of them should proceed by barge or rail in order to be allowed to arrive at the port. This requirement should be placed on Norvik and several other ports for us to use road, rail and shipping in such a way that Sweden can become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries.
i-24edc55229ad000a-562	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karin, for the 1998 reflection! It was interesting and certainly correct. But we are here and now, Karin Svensson Smith, representatives of the Green Party, which is one of two government parties. Today, the leader of the Left Party, Jonas Sjöstedt, has announced that there will be major train ventures, including on the East Coast Line. He says that from the viewpoint of the Left Party and its influence on the national transport plan. This is available on the Swedish Radio's P4 Gävleborg website. I assume, Madam President, that Karin Svensson Smith has the same transparency in the national transport plan. Here and now we are discussing shipping and inland navigation. Some of us have highlighted the example of Göta River and the need for renovation of the locks in order to create at all the routes of inland navigation that Karin Svensson Smith mentioned as one of eight examples to get it moving. Karin Svensson Smith himself mentioned Malmporten. My question to you, Karin Svensson Smith, is therefore: Are the locks in Göta River and Malmporten included in the national transport plan that the government is going to present? It was supposed to have been esentered a long time ago but will either day. Otherwise, all Karin Svensson Smiths's speech remains just an exciting, interesting and visionary reflection. However, this is not what the Swedish shipping industry and the climate are waiting for.
i-24edc55229ad000a-566	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. The Green Party has been criticised too much, but I do not think that we can be criticised for not settling when reality demands it. We have great visions. We believe that we are primarily representatives of science, the future generations and the environmental movement in Parliament. But we have to work with others as long as we do not have more support, and then we have to settle. I have presented things that are most realistic, and it is not up to me to tell you about the details of a decision that the government is going to make public later. But, of course, I have made a selection of what we consider necessary, realistic and feasible. None of what I'm saying is a coincidence. In addition to the national plan, the government has long since announced its intention to make a good strategy. That's part of it, too. Investment is only part of it. We have 52 ports. Rather, I think it can be said that overall it has been overinvested a little. The ports are competing for new investments. I thought that representatives of shipping were very clear when they were with us in the Committee on Transport. It is primarily other rules of the game and other market conditions that they are looking for. I would like to repeat what I said earlier: the Alliance parties are hardly credible in their advocate of shipping if they do not want the road to take its share of cost responsibility.
i-24edc55229ad000a-569	Madam President, I would like Karin Svensson Smith! Now it was not the criticism that is being levelled at the Green Party that I asked about, but I asked about what we are discussing here and now: Swedish maritime policy and the conditions for Swedish shipping to develop, including the Swedish inland waterway routes that Karin Svensson Smith just spoke warmly about in her speech. In order for it to be possible at all to secure water supply in the city of Gothenburg and to avoid the risk of confusion in Götaälvdalen, it is necessary to reinvest in Trollhättan and in the Götaälv system. But if Karin Svensson Smith can't answer that question, even though the Green Party is part of the government, we'll have to check it off as a non-answer. Then we can take up the Swedish Maritime Administration and the tax system that they have developed and that both the industry and the Swedish Maritime Administration have been in committee and discussed. Nevertheless, it is the government that is in charge. Parliament decides, the government executes. Criticism has been common and strong against the tax system that the Swedish Maritime Administration has been allowed to design. It is believed to hamper the growth of shipping in and around our country. What have Karin Svensson Smith and the Government done specifically to influence the Swedish Maritime Administration to adopt a different design of its tariffs?
i-24edc55229ad000a-571	Madam President, I would like I want to return to the investments. Already the first Climate and Vulnerability Investigation had a partial report proposing to either secure the Göta River and pour it into concrete or investigate a new channel to Uddevalla to dewater Trollhättan, including the locks. There was one thing that I was very committed to and had interpellation debates about with the then Minister of the Environment Andreas Carlgren. I can only say that the results were not there at the time. I think the responsibility for not having planned this is united. But I think there will be answers that maritime transport will not be dissatisfied with when the decisions of the government are made public. On to the question of fairway charges! I agree with the reports that we are introducing the new fairway system saying that we were concerned about the proposals that existed. What has happened is that we have had Traffic Analysis look at the consequences of the fairway fee system that the Swedish Maritime Administration would implement. This was completed on 30 June 2017 and showed what the industry had warned against, namely that incentives for climate-friendly investments are decreasing. The transparency of the task of reducing both air pollution and climate impact is also reduced with the new fairway charging system. Now the government has said that it will investigate the consequences of what was introduced on 1 January and in contact with the actors make sure that this system is put in order. I will do my best to ensure that this happens. Fairway charges should be governed by a bonus – the Malus principle.
i-24edc55229ad000a-574	Madam President, I would like Karin Svensson Smith resented the fact that the alliance parties did not want to impose extra taxes on road transport. No, we don't. We don't set transport modes against each other. Karin Svensson Smith also mentioned that we want to reduce taxes. Yes, we do, because that is the only way to get more people to work. I would like to remind you that during the time of the alliance government, tax revenues increased by just over 200 billion, even though taxes were reduced. There is evidence in hand that it works. I would like to return to maritime issues. Karin Svensson Smith mentioned that barge traffic is modern. In many panel debates, she has expressed a very positive view of the establishment of barge traffic in Sweden. Unfortunately, the government does not seem to share Karin Svensson Smiths's enthusiasm. Following the initiative of the previous government on the implementation of the EU inland waterway acquis, little has happened. There have been no new establishments since 2014. In addition to the implemented technical regulations, which are in place, we are also waiting for regulations for manning, solving the pilot question and so on. It is also the case that waterways are waiting to be classified. My question to Karin Svensson Smith is: Your party is part of the government base and has every opportunity to influence the government – what has Karin Svensson Smith done practically to help the establishment of barge traffic in Sweden?
i-24edc55229ad000a-578	Madam President, I would like It's an election year, so it's time to review and compare. I can compare with what happened during the eight years when the Alliance government ruled. An excellent study on fossil fuel freedom was then produced, but not one of the proposals made by that study was implemented. On the other hand, if you look at what this government has done, you can tick proposals after proposals: urban environment agreements, fuel changes – I could spend a lot more time listing how much of this investigation has become a practical reality, bonus – not to forget. As far as shipping is concerned, I started talking about inland waterways as early as 1998, when I was new to the committee. For me, this was difficult matter. I come from Lund Municipality, where we have limited inland waterways. Raise is not suitable for shipping. As I have learned more, I have really seen how to use this in Holland, France, London and Belgium. But nothing is happening; there is still no shipping company registered. It's time to do it now. What I have contributed to is to conduct opinion and highlight the eco-bonus, which has also been included in the government's proposals and which has been included in the budgets that have been decided. But it takes some time to implement things that are decided here in Parliament. I note that during the four years of a red-green cooperation government, we have taken huge steps to reduce oil dependence in the transport system, and more are likely to become public in the near future.
i-24edc55229ad000a-581	Madam President, I would like The idea behind the eco bonus is not wrong. Unfortunately, it has not been put into practice, as the rules are still unclear as to how to support inland navigation, coastal and short sea shipping and how to deal with competing operators on the same routes. I'd like to get back to the barge start. The pioneers who are struggling with this establishment believe that barge traffic should be regarded as their own type of traffic, the fifth category of traffic, as in other European countries. Unfortunately, Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth thinks that this is completely wrong and that barge traffic should not be regarded as a particular type of traffic, even though it differs significantly from the IMO ships that can also be used in inland navigation. My question is: how does Karin Svensson Smith view the question of the fifth road team?
i-24edc55229ad000a-584	Madam President, I would like I think the fifth mode of transport is a rather wise term. I agree that there are many differences. Since there is nothing today, there would be no loss of revenue if we allowed it to go free of fairway charges. I have every respect that the economic system must be seen as a whole. The main concern is that we do not have a fair and efficient system on the roads. I think that we should have the same principles of charging for all modes of transport, whether it be road, rail or maritime. There is enormous potential especially here in the Stockholm region where about 50 percent of what goes on trucks is stone, sand and gravel. It should be able to go by barge traffic with advantage. The biggest concern is that you have small islands that are approved for inland waterways instead of whole stretches. You can hardly make a good deal out of that. If we were to apply the corresponding systems to road traffic, it would be very hampering for lorry traffic. There is great potential. I do not take the same view of the government's position on this issue. The government is interested and constructive. Then I might think it should go faster. But it is better to have a regulatory framework that is valid, that can withstand scrutiny and that does not need to be torn up than to do something hazelnut. I believe that something like transhipment aid or eco-bonus is needed pending the introduction of fair prices for lorry transport. The overall objective must be to make Sweden one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries, and then barge traffic must be part of the freight transport system.
i-VV42nE3EFhTszuc81Me9fY	Madam President, I would like Today we are dealing with the Committee on Transport's report, the Government's proposal Revised rules for inland navigation and general exercise. Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposals to be approved in the report and the proposal and for all reservations to be rejected. Madam President, I would like The tonnage tax has been a symbolic issue for the shipping industry in terms of competitiveness neutrality. The legislation entered into force on 1 January 2017. The aim was to have a level playing field with the rest of Europe and thus be able to choose Sweden as a flag nation. Some fifteen vessels have joined the tonnage tax to date, but far from everyone has been flagged yet. The government has over the past two years given various investigative assignments to see how to develop shipping. Some of the results will be seen in the action plan and good strategy that is on the way. During this term, the Government has worked with different regulatory simplifications for Swedish shipping. This applies to regular shipping, but it is also about inland navigation. In order to stimulate cargo owners to use shipping instead of truck wherever possible, the government has contributed SEK 50 million per year over a three-year period, eco-bonus, to stimulate the transfers that we wish. The Government has also conducted an investigation into the development potential of inland navigation and coastal shipping in Sweden. Madam President, I would like With regard to inland navigation, the Inland Water Ways of the European Union, I would like to take this opportunity to clarify. We have been using inland waterways in Sweden for a long time. I am thinking of Vänersjöfart which has shipped its goods to Swedish ports but also to other countries. It has been with ships built to go in any waters. The new feature of the EU's Inland Water Ways regulation, which we have also adapted Swedish legislation to, is that it applies to ships that we today call barges. Today's barges are modern with high tech and truck engines approved for EU environmental classification. The committee has previously agreed that the new fairway charges and the environmental differentiation started by the Swedish Maritime Administration on 1 January would encourage several ship owners to take measures for a cleaner environment. The Swedish Maritime Administration will look further at the environmental differentiation to see what effect can be seen from the current system. But it also flies because it has too little money to have the effect that the committee expects. This suggests that some funding should be made available for ice-breaking and deep-sea data, for example. The Government intends to closely monitor the development of fairway charges. When I have talked to shipping companies after the fee change, many say that they have received significant fee increases, while the Swedish Maritime Administration believes that it is too early to draw conclusions on the new fees. Shipping pays a large part of the infrastructure and a large part of its environmental impact. The Swedish Maritime Administration has also pointed out that Swedish ports and port charges are a problem because the fees are not nationally coordinated but are often optimised from a local perspective. It is also a factor that risks counteracting Swedish competitiveness. In connection with this, I would like to mention that Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth has held an appreciated meeting with invited participants from Sweden's various ports. A few of the issues on the agenda were port charges and how to interact between the different ports. We also know that shipowners who go ahead and energy efficient their ships cannot charge the cost of cargo as they normally do on goods, because it is the cheapest thing that applies to freight buyers. It is not without my thinking whether we really organise the maritime authorities in an optimal way. Madam President, I would like Lottery duty is another area to which a great deal of criticism has been levelled. Those of you who have listened to me before know that I am in favour of more digitalisation in pilotage. We are also seeing problems with the recruitment of pilots today. Pia Nilsson and I visited the port of Rotterdam and their traffic control tower on one occasion and saw how the system worked. We were also out on a barge and saw how the information about different ship movements was reported all the time and how they got the go-ahead to act. I think that system would be very useful here in Sweden. In addition, we in Sweden know how to build the system. It was Swedish companies that had delivered to Holland. Madam President, I would like Sweden is a country with a long coastline. Maritime transport is an important part of a coherent Swedish transport system. Approximately 85 – 90 per cent of Sweden's foreign trade is transported by sea. About 30 million passengers a year travel by ferry to and from Sweden. In Swedish shipping and in companies linked to maritime transport, an estimated 100,000 people work. With the increase in transport in our country and with the forecasts that exist, we see that shipping will play an increasingly important role in the future. The Government's ambition is to move more goods from rubber wheels to rail and shipping, but we also know that the railways are heavily burdened. Maritime transport has great potential both in terms of imports and exports but also within the country. In maritime transport, capacity increases are possible if they are done properly. We need a good infrastructure for industry and not least for the export industry, which gives us the opportunity to maintain, develop and establish qualified industrial production in Sweden. Opportunities for fast and secure freight transport mean a lot when a company chooses where to establish itself. It also creates more jobs and is good for Sweden. We see shipping as strategically important and as a basic industry that operates in a global perspective. There needs to be a competitively neutral system for transport, which means that people do not opt out of visiting the ports of Sweden and instead make use of European ports to transport more goods on rubber wheels and burden our roads further. We see the effect this has had on the problem in the port of Gothenburg when you choose to unload in Rotterdam and drive goods on a truck to Sweden. This applies not least to the Skåne region. Madam President, I would like I must once again be able to pick up something that I think is very positive: the shipping industry contributes with economic conditions together with state authorities. It also provides individual strategies for a better environment and for testing alternative fuels and building new ships that are more energy efficient. This has contributed to the fact that Swedish maritime environmental development is among the best in the world. The report also contains some measures on objects, and these proposals are dealt with in the action plan that is being presented shortly. Finally, the most important thing during this term of office is that tonnage tax has been introduced, that a number of regulatory simplifications for shipping have been made and that funds are available for eco-bonus.
i-24edc55229ad000a-609	Madam President, I would like Suzanne Svensson says that national plan, good strategy and so on will come shortly or in the near future. I have to say that this has been drawn on for quite some time. We hear the same message all the time. It is apparently only Jonas Sjöstedt, with transparency and influence on this, that leaks. But we will have to settle for this here tonight, although it would have been quite reasonable to hear about locks in Trollhättan and so on. Another point that Suzanne Svensson makes in her speech – thank you for that, by the way – is that, as a representative of the Government Party of Social Democrats, she has spoken to shipping companies about the new Swedish Maritime Administration tariffs. The shipping companies are very critical, and the Swedish Maritime Administration says it is too early to draw any conclusions. That is how I understood the speech. Then my questions will be to Suzanne Svensson : Which of the two believes Suzanne Svensson on – the shipping companies, who have got their tariffs invoiced and started to draw purely commercial conclusions from it, or the Swedish Maritime Administration, which sends the invoice? Which of these two does Suzanne Svensson believe in? What conclusions does Suzanne Svensson, the Social Democrats, draw from what she believes in? And what does Suzanne Svensson do about the knowledge she gets in contact with the Swedish Maritime Administration and the shipping companies? Suzanne Svensson is an important representative of the Social Democrats in the Parliamentary Transport Committee, and I am absolutely convinced that she has the Minister for Infrastructure's ear on these issues.
i-24edc55229ad000a-615	Madam President, I would like As far as the action plan and the good strategy are concerned, no one would, of course, have been happier than I would have been if I had been able to give an answer today, including on the content. But of course Anders Åkesson also knows, Madam President, that you do not run ahead of the government's decision. We'll have to wait, you and me. As far as shipping companies and the Swedish Maritime Administration are concerned, the charging model has been up and running since 1 January. I have no doubt about the shipping companies who tell us that they have received quite a large increase in the fee. I said in my speech that the government will follow this very closely, and so did the Maritime Administration when they were with the committee a while ago. Let's just see what happens. I also said that I was thinking a little bit about how we organize the authorities that are in charge of shipping. It may also be a bit of an answer to your question.
i-24edc55229ad000a-618	Madam President, I would like Apparently, only the leader of the Left Party is allowed to go out and talk about parts of a national plan. I would be a little annoyed, Suzanne Svensson, if I were government representatives on a day like this, but I will leave that to you. I have no doubt about the shipping companies," says Suzanne Svensson. No, there's no reason to do that, because they fight every day to make ends meet, to get jobs to do and to work well. The government is following the issue very closely. It wasn't very concrete, Suzanne Svensson. It follows the matter closely and notes that in some respects the tariffs have increased by 200 per cent and that shipping companies that have made substantial environmental efforts in the form of switching to electric power, e.g. Helsingborg– Helsingör, have seen their tariffs double. I have to say that it seems quite passive, Madam President, to follow this issue closely as the only measure when there are so obviously grotesque distortions in the tariffs imposed by the Swedish Maritime Administration. They double the rate when the shipping companies have made an effort and invested very heavily to solve local environmental problems at Helsingborg – Helsingör. It sends strange signals to those who make an effort, doesn't Suzanne Svensson think so? What else does the government do than follow the matter closely?
i-24edc55229ad000a-623	Madam President, I would like I have made some criticisms; I suppose Anders Åkesson also discovered this in my speech. We'll see what happens here in the future. But as I said: when you make big investments in ships you cannot get it back on the product when you then transport something, but it is something that you have to pay for yourself. That is not really good, and I would like to see greater environmental differentiation.
i-24edc55229ad000a-625	Madam President, I would like Suzanne Svensson has a huge maritime heart. All of us who work with Suzanne Svensson know that she is passionate about shipping. I have a few questions for Suzanne. I sat and listened to Karin Svensson Smiths's comments and answers here in the speaker's chair. What can be said is that Karin Svensson Smith wants to make all other modes of transport more expensive for shipping to be perceived as more profitable. Then one can ask: Is this a will direction also from Suzanne Svensson? I know a lot is done, but a lot more is needed to make shipping more attractive. Eco-bonus was on the line. How many have used the opportunity to withdraw money from the eco-bonus? Or is it just a blow in the air?
i-24edc55229ad000a-629	Madam President, I would like Eco-bonus is set aside as of this year. The regulations for this are currently being prepared in the Ministry of the Environment, so no one has yet been able to apply for this money. I'm sorry, but what was the last question?
i-3ae04e637df14917-0	Should you make all other modes of transport so expensive that shipping is perceived as cheap? ) It was also about whether I think we should abolish fairway charges. No, I do not think so, because in that case it would end up on tax revenue and what we are paying in. There must be a fee, but it must also be reasonable.
i-24edc55229ad000a-632	Madam President, I would like If Suzanne Svensson was aware of what I was talking about, she heard that I said that it would be possible to restructure and reorganize the Swedish Maritime Administration in order to reduce the fees and thus possibly remove the entire fairway fee. That's what I had in mind. It is true what Suzanne Svensson said about traffic on the Göta river before regulations for inland waterways existed. By working for over 20 years in the port of Gothenburg, I have also managed the flows that have gone through the river, but new rules have now come up to try to increase shipping, including barge traffic. So there are new possibilities. How are we going to get the barge traffic going? Why not remove the fairway charges in order to get a traffic started? It's zero and nothing that's happened since 2014/ 15. What will Suzanne do to get traffic going?
i-24edc55229ad000a-635	Madam President, I would like I have had a conversation with those who would like to start barge traffic, and I have asked what legislation is missing. Everyone's talking about legislation that's not ready. But no legislation is missing. On the other hand, it is felt that the fairway charges and pilotage fees are too high, and this does not make it viable to start. It will have to be a discussion that we will have to take forward. We have been working during this parliamentary term to get inland navigation going, and it is clear that we need to take a step further. Nevertheless, I would like to comment on Jimmy Ståhl's speech. We were at the same meeting, I hope, at the Committee on Defence. I did not understand that there was a very positive attitude towards taking over the helicopters. They said there were two crews, and they were graying men. It's been a long time since you've had two crews. I also had to deviate from the meeting. Later I checked with the Defence Committee, and they did not succeed in that part. There was little interest from the Committee on Defence.
i-24edc55229ad000a-638	Madam President, I would like I have a simple question for Suzanne Svensson. Karin Svensson Smith mentioned in her speech that cruise ships should gladly pay more in fairway fees. Even now, high-frequency traffic is sometimes the losers in the new fairway charging systems. I know that Suzanne Svensson has been on cruise ships, met the people who work there, marveled at how many jobs these ships create and how much all the tourists who come to Sweden with these ships spend. They help raise our bnp. I wonder if Suzanne Svensson shares Karin Svensson Smiths's view that cruise ships are happy to pay even higher fairway fees.
i-24edc55229ad000a-641	Madam President, I would like In my opinion, cruise ships are exempt from port charges, not fairway charges. They do not control the various municipalities. However, I have heard that port charges have been reduced to attract more cruise ships. I can have an opinion on that. Boriana Åberg also says that you spend a lot of money. The last thing I heard was that you don't spend much money, but you make your trip, return to the boat and then go on. There is still nothing we can do about port charges because it is the ports themselves that set them.
i-24edc55229ad000a-644	Madam President, I would like My question was about fairway charges. But I can ask you another question. Suzanne Svensson also mentioned the introduction of tonnage tax. We know that only ships over 100 tonnes of gross tonnage can be used. In our neighboring country, Denmark, a known maritime nation, the limit is 20 tons of gross tonnage. One wish that has been directed from the industry is to look at tonnage tax 2.0, i.e. adjust so that other types of ships in, for example, offshore operations can also take part of the tonnage tax and hopefully flag Swedish. How does Suzanne Svensson feel about this?
i-24edc55229ad000a-647	Madam President, I would like When we were going to introduce the tonnage tax, the EU did not prove to be very friendly to it and would have preferred to have stopped it. It was quite tough negotiations where both Swedish Maritime and our Minister for Finance were involved. We finally got it through. Now I know that our minister Tomas Eneroth has said that he is willing to look at tonnage tax 2.0. That'll be my answer.
i-24edc55229ad000a-649	Madam President, I would like This debate concerns the report on what is commonly referred to as letter 75. Letter 75 is the Government's annual report to the Riksdag on how the Government has dealt with the Riksdag's letter to the Government, or in other words to what extent the Government has implemented the Riksdag's decision in 2017. Once a year, the Government reports to the Riksdag how it has handled all the letters sent from the Riksdag to the Government. What letters have been finalised, and what letters remain? That is the accounting we are discussing. Especially interesting is the treatment of announcements. An announcement is, as you know, a decision on an order from the Riksdag to the Government, for example that the Government should investigate an issue and return to the Riksdag with legislative proposals. I am pleased that this year, too, the KU has been able to agree across all party boundaries on this year's position. The existence of announcements can be derived partly from the division of functions between the government and parliament, and partly from the principle of parliamentarism. By the distribution of functions, I mean that for a couple of hundred years there has been a division of labour between the government and the parliament which assumes that it is the government that has the resources to draft legislative proposals, mainly because the government controls the investigation system, while the parliament's task is to review the legislative proposals and then approve or reject them. When I say that announcements are linked to the principle of parliamentarism, I believe that parliamentarism in Swedish bottling means that the government must be tolerated by the parliament in order to remain in office. Against this background, it will also be important for the Riksdag to be able to signal to the Government what political proposals there is support for in the Riksdag. The legal status of the announcements is not regulated by the Constitution or the Parliamentary Order, but they are subject to legal standards in the form of firm constitutional practice, not least developed by the Constitutional Committee for a long period of years. This practice has some main ingredients. The starting point is that the Government should satisfy the Riksdag's announcements. Preparation measures following a notice shall be initiated as soon as possible. If the Government does not intend to comply with announcements, the Government shall inform the Riksdag thereof and state its reasons. Only in exceptional circumstances should it take more than two to three years to complete a notice. The reasonableness of time depends on the complexity of preparing the announcement. Every year in the so-called letter 75, the report we are now debating, the Government will report on how the Riksdag's announcements have been handled. The starting point is therefore that announcements should be met. However, a certain request from the Riksdag may, after an investigation, prove to be practically impossible or, on good grounds, inappropriate to implement. It is reasonable to add the notice to the file without further action. Refusing to implement Parliament's decisions for political reasons on the part of the government is another matter. The follow-up that the KU has now done to the Government's handling of announcements, based on what the Government reports in letter 75, has been done in such a way that the KU has asked the other committees to comment on how the Government has implemented the Riksdag's decisions within the respective committees' remit. Last year there were 18 cases in which the government considered that a letter had been finalised, but when the committees were of a different opinion. And in another 18 cases, the committees had clear objections to the government's work on announcements that the government was still working on. Thus, the total figure for when Parliament and the Government did not agree on announcements last year was 36 cases. This year the corresponding figure is 21 cases, as far as I can count in letter 75 and the KU report. It is therefore less than last year, which is welcome, although there may be room for further improvements. Where the government considers that an announcement has been finalised, but the committee disagrees, the KU has for some years chosen not to make its own assessment of the matter. Instead, the committee states that the government has to return to the Riksdag with its assessments and proposals in relation to what the respective substantive committees have said. However, the KU makes some general comments. During the examination of last year's letter 75, the KU made some statements on the situation in which the Government reports its consideration of an announcement in a proposal or letter before letter 75 has been prepared. The KU made some guiding statements about this. They may have been overinterpreted to some extent by certain departments. There are examples in this year's letter of how ministries have presented the treatment of announcements in a completely different factual context from that of the announcement. We had an example from the area of the Education Committee where the government reports a certain issue in connection with a report from the Swedish National Audit Office on Sami education that was not at all addressed in the announcement. For this reason, the KU points out that it was not the committee's intention that announcements should be included in proposals and letters dealing with a matter of fact which is not directly related to the announcement. Accounting should take place where there is a reasonable factual link. We also make a comment on the cases where the Riksdag has decided on a new announcement and where there is already an older, equally obedient announcement. In some cases, the Government has presented the original notice as completed and in some cases not completed. The KU points out that it is reasonable for the original notices to be consistently accounted for as unfinished. Finally, the KU points out that what is requested in a notice should be explicitly stated in the position of the committee in question. Even if the committee proposes that a motion be fully approved, what the committee wants the Parliament to submit to the government should be reflected in the text called the committee's position. This makes it clear both to Parliament and to the government what the committee thinks the government should do. There are some comments and guiding statements from the Constitutional Committee that will hopefully lead to next year's letter 75 even better reporting how the government has lived up to Parliament's wishes and also that the government has the opportunity to respond even better to Parliament's wishes. Madam President, I would like With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-24edc55229ad000a-667	Madam President, I would like Honourable Members and listeners! The parliamentary situation poses a number of challenges for the division of responsibilities between the parliament and the government. On the one hand, it is the parliament's task to make laws, decide on taxes to the state and decide how the state's funds are to be used, in accordance with the government's form of Chapter 1. 4 §. On the other hand, it is the government's task to rule the kingdom, always accountable to the Riksdag – as pointed out here earlier – in accordance with the government's form of Chapter 1. 6 §. Finally, it is also about our joint responsibility to protect and take care of our country, Sweden, with all that it means. This places demands on the association and relationship between the parliament and the government in order to ensure respect for the rules of the government and for effective governance. And that is precisely what this matter is about. In the Government's letter 75, the Government describes the measures it has taken in response to the announcements adopted by the Riksdag. And in our report, the KU21, we are dealing with how Parliament views precisely the government's handling of our announcements. Madam President, I would like This year, too, we in the KU want to reiterate what we have said before, namely that we note that the Government's report has been improved for several years and gives a formal correct picture of Parliament's letters to the Government. These reports have, again, in many cases become more detailed. We welcome that, of course. We also welcome the fact that in the 2018 Budget Bill, the Government has reported on the measures taken in relation to announcements to a greater extent than in the past and also reports its assessment of whether or not the announcement has been finalised. We also welcome the government's willingness to report on the measures taken with regard to announcements as early as possible. However, we would also like to underline what Andreas Norlén, our President, said earlier that it was not our intention in the KU report No 21 of the previous Parliamentary Assembly that announcements should be included in proposals and letters dealing with a matter of fact which is not directly linked to the announcement. Madam President, I would like We in the Constitutional Committee would also like to recall what we pointed out last year, namely that it is important for the government to be clear about how its handling of an announcement relates to the announcement in question. However, for the government to be clear, the announcement from the Riksdag must be clear. We would therefore like to point out that what is requested in a notice should be explicitly stated in the position of the committee in question. Although the committee proposes that a motion be fully approved, what the committee wants to be presented to the government should be reflected in the committee's position. This makes it clear to both the parliament and the government what the committee thinks the government should do. Of course, this does not prevent the government from using the whole text of the motion to gain a more complete understanding of the considerations that have prompted the announcement. This is precisely what all members of Parliament can remember in the committee work and in the form of exercise writing, as well as the government when it takes on our announcements. Madam President, I would like Members and listeners! As I said, the parliamentary situation poses a number of challenges for both the parliament and the government, both in terms of legislation and government. And this report, in addition to previous years' KU21 – which I am presenting to Members of this House – can be seen as a series of parliamentary manuals to study and return to in order to enable a working relationship between Parliament and government. However, although the present situation may seem complicated, it is not the first time that our country is in a situation similar to this. Perhaps the prime example in our modern history is the era of minority parliamentarism from 1920 to 1933. During these years, minority governments needed to seek support outside their own party, so-called centre of gravity parlamentarism or wave politics. During the period, more than ten Prime Minister shifts took place. As we have probably all read about and remember, the importance of parlamentarism meant that the governments became weak and the parliament strong, and the committees were given a key position. The period came to its real end in 1933 with the crisis settlement between the Social Democracy and the Peasant League and partly the free-minded liberals. Now, at the end of May, it is exactly 85 years since the deal was made. The agreement changed the political conditions, and the unstable policy that partially paralysed Sweden ceased. The importance of the crisis settlement for the Swedish economy has been discussed, but its political significance is clear. The extremist groupings that grew stronger and stronger around Europe in the 1930s never gained much influence here in the country – thankfully. The actions of our predecessors proved to be wise. Madam President, I would like We are again in a troubled time. In recent years we have seen how far-right movements are on the rise in Europe. They make a difference to people and hit the free media and an independent judiciary hard. Racism is growing, also here in Sweden. Never before has Swedish right-wing extremism been as well established as now, even here in the Swedish parliament. Therefore, we need to learn from history and take advantage of the experiences it provides. One of them is the importance of well-functioning relations between parliament and government and between democratically-minded parties in order to protect popular government and human dignity and to ensure that our country can continue to function despite a difficult parliamentary situation. This is necessary in order to maintain citizens' confidence in democracy and the constitutions. In light of this, the KU21 and the manual it is actually important. These are firm positions that facilitate the association of a functioning parliamentarism, even in a complicated situation. In the same way, the many major block-crossing agreements that have been concluded between us Social Democrats and six other parties in different constellations will be important for the continued governance of Sweden. During the term of office, there have been over 20. This applies, for example, to energy policy, defence, migration and parental insurance. Because of the parliamentary situation, we see how the power of Parliament has increased again. But, Madam President, regardless of where the focus is at the moment in our parliamentary system, the task of Parliament remains the same. Finally, it is about protecting and caring for Sweden and our democracy. For this, the constitutions are indispensable. They protect the equal value of all men and the freedom and dignity of the individual. They describe how we organise our governance and how we conduct elections. Democracy is both about respect for the individual and about how we as a country go about deciding on large, complex issues. In these times of uncertainty – both parliamentary and external – the need to protect and promote what our country's democratic and peaceful governance rests on and is protected by: the constitutions. I would therefore like to conclude by calling for the approval of the proposal contained in the KU 21 report on the handling of Parliament's letters.
