i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-18	Madam President, I would like Views of consumption and credit have changed over the years, and today the Swedes are borrowing more and more. Getting into the debt trap and, at worst, over-indebtedness is devastating for the individual and also costs society big money. Swedish households are highly indebted, both from a historical and an international perspective. The objective should be a functioning market that creates both restraint and an accessible loan market. Lifelong indebtedness can affect anyone. The credit society is constantly evolving. Credits increase the possibilities for households to plan their finances but also risk contributing to over-indebtedness. The perception of consumption and credit has changed over the years, and today, as I said, the Swedes are borrowing more and more. Lifelong indebtedness with a remark from the bailiff, for example, due to divorce, entrepreneurship or long-term illness or unemployment can affect virtually anyone, but few talk about it. The so-called eternal debtors have become more and more numerous. An application for debt restructuring can be made to the enforcement officer and, if granted, the possibility of obtaining a reserve amount and, in addition, the possibility of paying on its debt according to its ability for a number of years. Then the debt is written off. Although the payment to the enforcement officer may feel heavy and severable, it is nothing compared to the other consequences of the payment notice. The person with a note of payment feels easily condemned to a blacklisted existence. As a result of one remark, you are prevented from signing rental contracts and obtaining bank cards and telephone or internet subscriptions, and it can also increase the price of home insurance. A text message that takes one minute to write can thus result in years of blacklisting. Living outside what you and I think is completely normal – a mobile subscription of your own, being able to rent a trailer at the gas station or checking into hotels – is unfortunately not possible for too many Swedes. Basically, it is a question of setting a limit on debt. How many years will creditors be able to stand in line to get a few crowns from a person for a debt that perhaps almost no one remembers on the company but remains as a claim in the computer system? These are not easy issues that we are debating today, but when people's tragic fate is sold from creditor to creditor so that, in the end, borrowers hardly know who they owe money, politics must do something. Information is important, and the distinction between pure information and marketing can sometimes be difficult. What we are debating today is a welcome approach to reducing consumer vulnerability in relation to the products on the market. It is well justified that the market for short-term loans should be regulated and that creditors should also be required to inform consumers of the risks involved. In these parts, the Government responds to earlier announcements from us in the Riksdag. One shortcoming of the proposal is that bridging credits and other temporary financing solutions in the case of, for example, housing acquisitions are not excluded as they are not normally covered by the definition of housing credit. We believe that the proposal on moderation is disproportionate in comparison with other advertising and marketing requirements. Furthermore, we believe that the consequences of a moderation requirement are not sufficiently investigated, as has also been pointed out by several consultation bodies. The difficulty of finding a practice of such a diffuse concept will be significant for the courts and will lead to a great deal of uncertainty among advertisers and creditors. That is why I am in favour of reservation 2.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-25	Madam President, I would like It is a welcome decision that the Parliament will take today, as Caroline Szyber explained in her speech, namely that we should make it difficult for and prevent so-called SMS loans. Madam President, I would like It is important to remember in such a debate that credit is needed in a society. The vast majority of us need credit to buy a home or a car or if we want to consume something else. Anyone can find themselves in an economic situation where a short-term credit is needed. On the other hand, many people today lack an economic buffer for unforeseen events. Approximately 400 000 people are in the Swedish Enforcement Authority's register. It is estimated that over-indebtedness in society costs 30 to 50 billion annually, but personal suffering cannot be measured in money. In the wake of tangled economy and over-indebtedness there are other problems such as increased stress, sleep difficulties and mental illness. In order to tackle the problem of over-indebtedness in the long term, fewer people must find themselves in an economic situation that they are unable to deal with, and more people who have ended up in a very difficult economic situation must be able to get out of it. That's why we've been running the government in front of us on the SMS loans. As Caroline Szyber said, a united parliament has already announced a few years ago that we need to deal with the SMS loans. A general advice should of course be: Save first and then consume. We will then hear from the Social Democrats whether it is believed that large and broad tax increases over these three years have made it more difficult or easier to become over-indebted. I am absolutely convinced that raising taxes for ordinary people, thereby reducing consumption space, will lead to more people at risk of over-indebtedness. It's not a good policy. As Caroline Szyber said, there are problems with this bill. We have some technical questions. One problem, for example, is that the bridging credit when you buy a home is at risk of being hit by this legislation. Should that be the case, the future government must look at it so that it can be adjusted, because it has never been meant to be hit by the legislation. The same is true of marketing. We are not generally opposed to the marketing of credit services – and there you must also take a look so that the legislation does not hit the wrong – and do not want the serious credit institutions to be hit by the legislation but that it is the rogue, if you say so, the SMS loans that are to be met. Of course we support all our reservations, Madam President, but for time-winning, I only ask for reservation 2.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-32	Madam President, I would like This bill is important to many of the most vulnerable in our society. The two proposals to introduce an interest rate cap and a cost ceiling are in many ways good and necessary. We have proposed that the ceiling set by the government at 40% above the current policy rate should be an effective rate of interest, i.e. interest including all fees and other costs. The interest ceiling should be set at total cost and not open up for other costs being spent instead of interest. Effective interest rates are used today to compare various offers of loans, and although this is not a common concept today, it can of course be. The ceiling should therefore apply, in our view, to all costs and also to all forms of loans and credit. However, we share the government's view that the interest rate should be higher than the policy rate when there have historically been periods of higher and lower interest rates. From the topnote on 16 September 1992, when the interest rate was raised to 500 percent, the span is large at the negative interest rate we have today. Although we may hope that we will not return to the extreme levels we have had, the ceiling must be able to follow developments both upwards and downwards. The interest ceiling does not need to be limited at all to high-cost credit. Although other credits in principle never have a higher interest rate today, there is a clear risk that companies will take advantage of this gap and start calling SMS loans for something else in order to go around both interest rates and cost ceilings. It is important to leave as few gaps as possible if we want good legislation. The problem of SMS loans, however, is not primarily their condition today, but that they are being asked for. Of course, the effect of the new rules now being implemented will be that the companies involved in issuing loans will be fewer and they will hopefully give out fewer loans. The previously lucrative market, where people are stuck in an increasing debt and where lenders have seen it as more interesting to get their customers to pay interest than to settle their loans, will hopefully be effectively limited by, above all, the cost ceiling, and that is a good thing. Madam President, I would like I would like to see society go further than limiting the possibility for companies to charge excessive costs on credit. The problem, as I said, is that the loans are being demanded and that there are people who see expensive loans as a solution to their situation. There may, of course, be many reasons why someone sees these expensive loans as a solution. Anyone who has seen the Lyxtrap programme on television knows that expensive small loans are often one of the biggest villains in terms of bringing together the economy for the participants, and not once have the programme leaders advised the Council to take on more quick loans. On the other hand, the loans have often been baked or paid off. Television is always television, but despite that, there is of course an underlying truth. The truth is that loans for consumption are basically never good for the individual's economy. It is therefore important that people learn how to improve their personal finances in different ways. Local authorities currently have consumer and budget advice, which should be able to improve and reach out to more people. It is much better for people to learn how to manage their finances before they build up a large debt than to wait until the debt is so large that you no longer manage your usual expenses. Few people know where to turn for help, and it is quite little that is invested in reaching out with the information. We need a society that strengthens those who are weakest and most vulnerable in our society. Our society should be taken into consideration in the people's home that we verigedemocrats want to create in Sweden. Some of the most vulnerable people today are those who find it difficult to reconcile their economies – not only because of low incomes but also often because of high expenditure. Through better help at an earlier stage, much mental suffering can also be avoided and many people would feel better. Hopefully, the demand for fast loans at high costs would also decrease. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by calling for our reservations, reservation 1 and reservation 4.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-45	Madam President, I would like The so-called quick loans are aggressively marketed with the positive message that you get the money in your hand and without credit testing through the Enlightenment Centre. The reasons for borrowing under such conditions in advertising are innocent, but they do not always reflect the reality in which people find themselves. The first thing you read when you google to borrow 10 000 SEK is: Borrow 10 000 SEK quickly despite several payment notes without security, notification directly with bank ID. Through the jingles of television advertising, we have learned the names of some of the companies that offer a product that obviously finds its customers. There may, of course, be various reasons for applying for short-term loans. They certainly meet a need, and in other contexts we have reason to criticise the banks when they place too much demands on mortgages, for example, requirements that go beyond what Finansinspektionen states. This issue is discussed in the debate on housing policy, an issue that we often deal with in the Committee on Civil Liberties. In order for small companies to grow and cope with day-to-day operations between supplier invoices and sales revenues and to cope with certain planned and unplanned expenditures, short-term loans remain important. Having said that, a review from the Swedish National Audit Office shows that the number of severely indebted people in Sweden has increased by 3 000 over the past five years. According to Statistics Sweden, as many as one in five households lack an economic buffer for unforeseen expenses. There are about 400 000 people with a total debt of more than SEK 70 billion in the register of the Swedish Enforcement Authority. Over-indebtedness is a major problem both for society and for those affected. Debt problems can lead to or worsen mental and physical ill-health, which can also affect relatives, not least children. This is to be read in the Government's 2015 strategy against over-indebtedness. The Center Party agrees that there are strong reasons to protect the most vulnerable and those at risk of over-indebtedness by removing products from the market that exploit already heavily indebted and replenish the statistics with more over-indebted. Any such loan to a person who already lacks the ability to pay and who needs money to finance an addiction, whether it is about consumption, gambling or the purchase of intoxicants of various kinds, affects not only the person who took the loan but also relatives – the partner, the partner and the parents who may have to go in for there to be food on the table and money in the account when the rent is due. Therefore, the Center Party welcomes the regulation whereby such loans with an effective interest rate of at least 30 percentage points higher than the reference rate are referred to as high-cost credit and that for these there is an interest rate cap that limits the creditor's ability to charge credit rates or default rates that are more than 40 percentage points higher than the reference rate applicable at any time. Since there has finally been a proposal of this kind, following several announcements and repeated parliamentary movements by the Center Party, among others, we hope that the measures adopted here today are sufficient to protect the most vulnerable, while serious creditors are not prevented from providing loans needed for companies to run their business, to make small investments in equipment and to parry ups and downs in sales. Nor should we restrict private individuals' access to short-term loans in order to cope with everyday life as long as the lending takes place at fair, for the borrower known and understandable conditions. Madam President, I would like The Center Party welcomes a new law that disarms rogue quick loan companies and restricts their ability to hide unhemular conditions. But we share the concern from Svensk Inkasso, from Svensk Handel and from the Trade and Industry Delegation for Market Law that the abolition of the so-called transaction test can create uncertainty. It is an important requirement for lenders to make it clear how the conditions affect costs, so that it becomes clear to consumers to what extent high-cost credit affects their private economy. However, a restriction on advertisers' ability to present the benefits of their products in a way that makes them attractive and demanded in a situation where the loans themselves have already been regulated, we believe, is going too far in regulating marketing in an otherwise well-functioning loan market. The consequences of a moderation requirement are not sufficiently investigated. I therefore call for the approval of Amendment No 2 by the Center Party, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats. Otherwise, I support the proposal in the report.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-59	Madam President, I would like Members! Those taking short-term loans are usually people with weak finances and lower repayment capacity. This can ultimately lead to the individual or family falling into a debt trap and risk falling into over-indebtedness. A report from LO 2016, Long-term over-indebtedness – The forgotten inequality, shows that over-indebtedness is a clear class issue. We see low-income, single, low- and medium-skilled, sick, unemployed and rent-earners being over-represented among the long-term over-indebted. The cynical thing is that many quick loan companies have the business model of targeting consumers with a weak economy by offering quick loans at near usury-like rates. It is a question of loans which are therefore extremely expensive. It is not uncommon that those who have taken a quick loan have to take a new quick loan to pay the old one, and so is a firm in a vicious circle. The speed of getting the money can lead to unconsidered consumption, such as gambling and restaurant visits at night or night. Almost half of the respondents indicated that they would not have taken a text message loan if they had had to wait 24 hours or longer. This is to be read in the Swedish Kronofogden and the Swedish Consumer Agency's report SMS loan – A survey of young adults' experiences. The costs are sky-high compared to other credits. The APR can be hundreds and even thousands of percent. It is an interest rate that must be termed usury. In the bill, the government proposes several measures that will lead to more reasonable conditions for short-term loans and other high-cost credits and to fewer people at risk of over-indebtedness due to these loans. The proposals include the introduction of interest rate ceilings and cost ceilings for high-cost credits, and consumer awareness of the risks involved when considering taking out such loans. Furthermore, a specific provision is proposed for any promotion of consumer credit to be moderate. The proposal aims to ensure that marketing takes greater account of the general risks of consumer credit and is designed in such a way that it does not attract consumers to unconsidered decisions. I welcome the measures proposed in the bill and have supported the government's legislative proposals. In my opinion, however, these measures are not sufficient to protect the most vulnerable consumers. The problem will remain despite interest caps and regulated marketing. Those applying for short-term loans or SMS loans often act in panic to quickly get cash and do not think about repayment opportunities and consequences, no matter what the marketing looks like. Madam President, I would like Quick loans must be completely removed from the market. Sweden did just fine before 2006 without this type of loan. I therefore believe that the government should return to Parliament as soon as possible with proposals for legislation prohibiting quick loans. I call for approval of the Left Party's reservation 5.
i-E8aVtby8WETyn56mg9ZU4q	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Liberals' reservation 6 to be approved. Liberals' perception of consumer policy is that individuals should have the opportunity to make decisions based on their own wishes. In order for the individual to be able to do so, the state must be involved in setting clear rules of the game and in promoting effective competition in the market. We Liberals do not believe that the state should go in and decide what choices consumers should make. We do not believe that quick loans or small loans should be banned, as the Left Party believes. On the other hand, consumers must have good access to information and be able to make their own choices and be aware of the consequences of them. Information should then be available. This requires more frequent scrutiny of market participants and the disclosure of rogue companies. Madam President, I would like In the case of short-term loans and similar loans, the rules of the game have not been followed by rogue entrepreneurs. We have to be honest about that. Quick loans and SMS loans are a market in which rogue operators have for a long time simply exploited the situation of consumers. These are short-term loans with high interest rates. Effective interest rates are often above 100%, and companies market their creditworthiness tests in the form of extracts from credit information centres. In 2010, more than 28,000 applications were made. This is a figure that increased to almost 57,000 credit assessments in 2014. Since then, the enforcement officer has stopped making annual summaries, as the industry has changed so rapidly that the authority does not consider itself able to assess which companies should be included in such a compilation. This applies, for example, to the many companies that operate online casino business but which in practice make a living on short-term loans. Madam President, I would like During the period 2010 – 2014, the number of applications to the enforcement authorities for payment orders for unpaid SMS credits and other short-term loans doubled. It is a very rapid development, and we must question it. From a liberal point of view, today's rules are clearly not sufficient to intervene against those companies that run quick loans in an irresponsible manner. Short-term loans are not in themselves what needs to be countered, as the Left Party believes. However, we Liberals believe that we should not hold back those companies whose business concept is to exploit the loopholes in the regulatory framework and carry out a careless credit issue that drives people into debt traps. It is often about young people and often people with lower incomes. The Liberals therefore welcome the Government's proposal in the bill that the current exemption from the obligation to carry out a credit assessment in the case of free loans and other stand-alone credits that are not linked to more than a minor fee should be removed. There is an English expression called Tinstaafl, i.e. an abbreviation of Anyone who takes free loans, cheap loans or SMS loans actually has to pay for them as well. It is clear that a different kind of regulatory framework is needed. This is something that we in the Liberals have demanded and run in the Swedish Parliament. Together with the Alliance, we have received an announcement on this. That is why we welcome the legislation. Madam President, I would like However, there are two shortcomings in the legislation that I would like to highlight in particular. Firstly, it concerns the creditworthiness testing of high-cost credits. The Government does not consider that there is a need to make any changes to the credit assessment concerning high-cost credit. Nor is it considered necessary to introduce a civil-law sanction rule in the event of a lack of creditworthiness assessment. In its report, the study on some consumer credit, which is behind this legislation, considered that when calculating the consumer's ability to repay a high-cost credit, companies should take into account the risk that the consumer already has, or will receive, expenditure other than that shown in the basis of the credit assessment, such as taking or seeking other loans from other companies at the same time. Regrettably, the government has chosen not to proceed with this proposal. I believe that the government should return to Parliament with a proposal in accordance with the findings of the inquiry into certain consumer credit. Liberals will continue to push this issue. Secondly, it is a question of limiting the ability of rogue creditors to turn to the Enforcement Authority. Sweden has one of the absolute best debt recovery authorities in the world. Such an authority shall not be able to be used by rogue quick loan providers to recover debts. We Liberals simply believe that such companies are allowed to recover their costs on their own instead of the Swedish taxpayers being able to do so for them. One possibility could be, for example, that Kronofogden does not participate in recovering the debt in cases where the authority finds that the credit assessment does not comply with good lending practice. Other ways of tightening up the regulatory framework should also be considered. Swedish authorities should not be there for rogue entrepreneurs. They're supposed to be for serious entrepreneurs. Madam President, I would like We Liberals want to see a consumer policy that is about strengthening the power of consumers and the ability to make active choices. We believe that this legislation will do so.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-80	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and saying: finally, at last! I was elected to the Swedish Parliament in the 2006 elections. With the background of consumer guidance, it felt quite natural for me to choose the civil committee, which is responsible for issues relating to consumers, among other things. At about the same time, what was called SMS loans increased dramatically. It was probably no one who was really prepared for that development, that so many wanted to take and needed quick loans but did not really understand the consequence of them. The fact that, now after 12 years, we can present a report based on a legislative amendment from the government seems to me to be very good. I do not believe that any of us in this House is unfamiliar with what a text-based loan means. Personally, I have debated this issue in this House several times, not least during my first four years in Parliament. But perhaps some of our viewers would like to know the development of this evil. Yeah, bad luck is exactly what I call it, because a lot of people have been in trouble... maybe not with their first SMS loan, but with their second or third. Unfortunately, a loan is not usually enough. Rather, it will be another loan in order to repay the first loan with sky-high interest rates. What, then, defines a quick loan? Well, it has a credit amount of between SEK 500 and 3000, a maturity of between 30 and 300 days, and a high effective interest rate from 100 to several thousand percent. This is where it starts. Ever since the quick loans were established on the Swedish market, they have been re-debated and criticized. Their criticism is largely due to the fact that they are often targeted and granted to economically weak consumers and that they have very unfavourable interest rates. These are factors that can contribute to the consumer not being able to afford to repay the loan and to the debt being placed with the enforcement officer. Many also use quick loans to solve their financial problems in the short term, which unfortunately does not always stay with it. In an article from 2014, the increase in short-term loans was described as being on autobahn. The first half of the year 160 people a day ended up with the bailiff because of unpaid quick loans. That was fast, wasn't it? The loan companies are characterised by the availability of loans, which relate to relatively small amounts lent over a short period of time, mostly targeted at economically weak consumers and with high interest rates. There have also been shortcomings in the credit assessment of short-term loan companies. As a result, many consumers have had difficulty repaying short-term loans. After eight years of continued growth, the Red Green Government appointed an investigation in April 2015. The investigator was asked to consider measures to achieve a more responsible market for consumer credit. The measures proposed would be aimed primarily at short-term loans. The investigation was named "Enhanced consumer protection in the high-cost credit market". The report has been referred to, and the Legal Council has given its opinion. As reported in the bill, some measures have been taken over the years to counter the problems that quick loans can cause. Let's be honest and say there's been a lot going on. More stringent information requirements have been introduced in the Consumer Credit Act. The credit examiner shall examine whether the consumer is financially in a position to fulfil what he or she has undertaken under the contract. Since 2011, the review has been reviewed by the Swedish Consumer Agency, which can also charge a sanction fee if the credit assessment is not sufficient. Since July 2014, the quick loan companies have been subject to authorisation from Finansinspektionen with a clear requirement for soundness in the business. In 2016, an opportunity was introduced for the Swedish Consumer Agency to immediately ban a company from lending money to consumers if companies lack credit assessments. A trade association was also established for the short-term loan companies. It aims to promote sound and serious lending. It adopted ethical rules that member companies have an obligation to comply with. It is reported that 60 per cent of the short loan companies in Sweden are affiliated to the association. There's a lot left to do. To sum up, the changes in the new law are as follows: A cap on interest rates that limits the creditor's ability to charge high-cost credit rates shall be introduced. A high-cost credit shall not have a credit rate or interest rate higher than 40 percentage points at any time than the reference rate in force. In the event of a delay in payment, the consumer shall not be obliged to pay any form of compensation other than interest on late payment. By including the rules on interest ceilings in the Consumer Credit Act, they will be subject to the existing provision of the Act which states that the law is binding in the consumer's favour. Thus, the consumer will not be bound by a contractual term that involves a higher interest rate than the maximum rate that may be charged under the interest ceiling. A cost ceiling for high-cost credits should be introduced. For a consumer who takes a high-cost credit, the costs shall never exceed an amount equal to the amount of credit or, in the case of an overdraft, any individual use of the amount of credit made by the consumer. The costs referred to are credit costs, interest on late payments and the costs of measures aimed at getting the consumer to pay on time. This will also be binding in favour of the consumer. The term of a high-cost credit shall not be extended more than once. However, it may be extended if there is no increased cost for the consumer or if the consumer is granted a reasonable payment plan in order to be able to pay his debt. The Consumer Credit Act will introduce a requirement for moderation to be observed in the marketing of all types of consumer credit. Marketing that is not moderate shall be regarded as unfair to consumers and may lead to sanctions.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-97	I am pleased that we in committee agree on the large brush strokes. Then there are certainly straws that we have to pick up to fill the brush. But I am pleased, Madam President, to be able to support the report today.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-98	Madam President, I would like In the context of this debate, when I googled the title of the report, interest ceilings and other measures on the market for quick loans and other high-cost credits, it was only in fifth place that the product appeared. The four previous search results in the list were all advertising for how I could take a quick loan easily and quickly without any real control. This made it even more clear to me why these legislative changes are needed. It is good that the Committee on Civil Liberties agrees with what the report says. That is why I am also in favour of the proposal contained in the report as a whole. The proposal in the bill means that, among other things, we should introduce an interest rate cap and a cost ceiling for high-cost credits and that consumers should be alerted to the risks when considering taking out such loans. We are making these changes to ensure that they will lead to more reasonable conditions for the consumer in terms of quick loans and other high-cost credits and that fewer people will risk over-indebtedness due to these loans. We also propose a specific provision that any promotion of consumer credit should be moderate. This means that marketing should take greater account of the general risks of consumer credit and should be designed in such a way that they do not attract consumers to make unconsidered decisions. Madam President, I would like Quick loans and other expensive loans are often offered to a group of consumers who are more at risk than others to make it difficult to repay the money they borrow. These are high-risk consumers who have less margins in their economy or who have previously had problems paying at the right time. These consumers do not have any other credit facilities and must therefore accept that the loans cost considerably more than those offered, for example, by ordinary banks with which we are usually able to borrow. For the individual and his/her family, these loans can have major personal and financial consequences, especially if the loans are not repaid in time. It is a vicious spiral where debts grow high and eventually become uncontrollable. The TV programme Lyxtrapn was broadcast for the first time in Sweden in the autumn of 2006. Over the years, we have witnessed one section worse than the other where individuals have fallen into terrible downward economic spirals. Finansinspektionen has reported that approximately 450 000 quick loans are made every year. Although I and certainly many others like the Lyxtrap program, especially at the end where we see how the participants get help to get out of their unsustainable financial situation, I had hoped that the program would not be needed. I am therefore extremely pleased that during this term of office, the government has made several changes in terms of the ability of individuals to help themselves out of an over-indebted life situation. With the product that we are now debating and will decide on later today, we will have more tools to avoid individuals even ending up in that situation. The government is now proposing several changes to the Consumer Credit Act which will lead to more reasonable conditions for short-term loans and other high-cost credits and to fewer people being in over-indebted by these loans. The interest rate for short-term loans currently exceeds 50% in several cases. There are credit rates of up to 400 %, which is totally unreasonable. The Government therefore now proposes that neither credit nor late interest rates for high-cost credits should be more than 40 percentage points higher than the reference rate at that time. For a high-cost credit, the costs, such as interest, fees and collection costs, shall never exceed an amount equal to the amount of the credit. No loan is free of charge, even if in advertising it may sound like that. Therefore, we want to remove the current exemption from the obligation to carry out a credit assessment in the case of so-called free loans and other short-term credits that are not linked to more than a minor fee. This is good and extremely important in order to avoid people ending up in such vulnerable situations as over-indebtedness.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-109	Madam President, I would like I believe that most of us who enter the debate think that the very debate in which we are taking part is particularly important. So do I. What is the reason for that? Well, here is really the key to whether Sweden will live up to its commitment in the Paris Agreement or not. What was the commitment? That Sweden would become the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. That's a very big promise. We have followed this up in the Riksdag by saying that at least 70 per cent of the climate impact from domestic transport should be gone by 2030. As far as I know, there is no parliament in the world that has a more advanced objective than that. Now it's up to you to prove it. Can we present the measures that make it likely to become a reality or not? We feel strong pressure from individuals to deliver a. Many, especially young, are concerned: What will it look like? Will it continue to be the case that the Arctic and Antarctic are melting? Will it continue to be very dry in some parts of the world, forcing people to flee? Will it be the case that torrential rain destroys cities and that the rise in sea levels makes areas uninhabitable? All these questions are well behind the SOM Institute's mark that has been made many times before. When it comes to long-term issues that people are worried about, climate change is greatest. It's very rational for people to think that way. Then how are you supposed to attack it? You can look at: What can you do as an individual? You can do a number of things. You can avoid the food that affects the climate. You can try not to fly. You can avoid using the car unnecessarily. Some of us who live in densely populated areas may not need to own a car at all. But all of this, in fact, requires the involvement of politics. One of my greatest experiences politically was when I was an official Swedish delegate at the UN Conference in Rio in 1992 when they made Agenda 21 and wrote the climate convention that since the Kyoto Protocol followed up. The Secretary-General of the United Nations said: This calls for politics, individuals and companies to be involved, otherwise we will never succeed. We can decide on things in the UN General Assembly and in the European Parliament, and we can decide in the various national parliaments. In the end, however, it requires the involvement of the citizens if we are to succeed. We cannot ban driving and flying. But we can make it easier for people to use these modes of transport less, and we can facilitate the development of other fuels that are alternatives to the fossil fuels that are at the root of virtually most of climate change. That is what the debate today is about. I want to put it in perspective. Without the involvement of politics, which makes it more expensive to use oil and easier to travel without oil, one cannot, as an individual, manage to do so. We have a crisis in democracy. Then we need to show that we are factual and offer alternatives to people. I now turn to our report on fossil-independent transport. I support the committee's proposal. Of course, I'm behind the reservation, but for time winning, I'm not making a request for it. This is something that we in the Committee on Transport and Tourism have been engaged in for a long time. Ten years ago we made a research report called Renewable Fuels' role in reducing the climate impact of the transport sector. That was when the debate was very shaky. Is it ethanol? What about one and the other? Together we tried to go through: What is the state of knowledge? Then, at the beginning of this term of office, we found that it needed updating. Probably electrification will play a greater role now than we knew then. We now know that the E85 will not be the solution that many hoped for ten years ago. That is why we have followed up the previous report with a report ten years later entitled Fossil-free fuels to reduce the climate impact of the transport sector. About 78 per cent of all oil imported into Sweden goes to the transport sector. That's also where it's hardest to reset. If we go through the report, we see what we can do with the paradigm shift that the change of fuel means. It is really the greatest that we have achieved in politics this parliamentary term. It's a shift from changing cars to changing fuels. Of course, if you buy a new car, you should choose gas or electricity in the first place. But not everyone can afford to change cars, and manufacturing and scrapping of cars gives rise to a lot of climate impact. Change of fuel in the vehicles that already exist – cars, buses and trucks – is perhaps the single most important thing to achieve the goal. We rewrite the change of fuel in the law that comes into force on 1 July this year. Fortunately, we have agreed across the block behind the legislation that says that anyone selling petrol should gradually have a smaller share of fossil fuel and a higher share of renewable fuel. I am very pleased that we have reached an agreement on this. We also look at nationwide infrastructure to use gas and electricity. Although the change of fuel is the most important thing, our research report shows that there is not enough biofuels to redeploy all sectors. We need gas and electricity to supplement liquid fuels. In the Committee on Transport and Tourism, we have responsibility not only for road traffic but also for air and maritime transport. The climate does not look very much at national boundaries and where the greenhouse gases come from, so we need to take a holistic approach. That is why national infrastructure needs to be in place. We are talking about rural programmes and how important it is for people to be able to live a good life outside the cities, but then politics must also ensure that there are alternatives to fossil fuels outside the cities. In the cities it usually works out by itself, because there are many of us who live there and because it is commercially interesting. We must also reduce the use of energy in the transport system. We base ourselves on what the six authorities have said to us in the framework of the SOFT mission, that is to say that the potential estimates available for renewable fuels are really only enough for the road transport sector itself. The other transport sectors have not been included. As we continue to need a combination of shipping and other things – aviation, too, must play a role in some contexts – overall energy consumption in the transport sector must be reduced. This means that one important conclusion is that electricity should be used efficiently. Each terawatt hour shall be used where the greatest benefit is to be gained in terms of the quantity of goods transported or the number of people transported. This, in turn, makes the development of the railways absolutely necessary. Changing the modes of transport is crucial if we are to achieve the goals. Now I have talked about a lot that we agree on, but there are also things that we do not agree on. When it comes to the expansion of the railway, it is quite astonishing that the party that initiated the construction of Sweden with new main roads, and described it as a political reform that had an enormous impact in Almedalen 2014, today hesitates and does not really know. I hope that this hesitation will lead to a return to the initiative taken by Fredrik Reinfeldt and Anders Borg in 2014. We in the Red-Green Government have seen that this is an excellent option when it comes to reconciling industrial development and municipal welfare with reduced climate impact. It is a self-evident reform to build a new railway that allows the transporter to arrive on time rather than sit behind a slow train. In addition, this provides an alternative that is a smooth and reliable alternative to aviation. There is something else where we do not agree, which is also a little strange. We see that parts of the business sector – or most of the companies – have understood that oil does not belong to the future. All companies with some kind of grounded monitoring realize that it is not oil that will be used as fuel in the future. This means that the government's initiative with a fossil-free Sweden has gained a great deal of support from companies that want to be involved. You'd rather be on the winning side than the losing side. But it also requires that we have economic instruments that make the investments that are needed to replace fossil fuels with others. The government has therefore set up the Industrikliv, which many companies want to be part of. Sweden, which is a fairly large exporter of steel, for example, can then switch to steel that is not produced using fossil fuels. Not only do we benefit from our own climate goals, but we do what was the intention when Stefan Löfven and Isabella Lövin in Paris said that Sweden will be one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. We want to go ahead and set an example. We want a permanent world exhibition in Sweden where you show how this can happen and where you do it in a way that allows other countries to follow.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-132	Madam President, I would like We are now in the starting pits to tackle one of our biggest societal challenges in the coming decades, namely to gradually phase out fossil fuels from our transport systems. It is good that we in this House agree on the direction towards the objectives. But no goal is achieved without action, without initiative and without investment – and there is no step too small! Just as we have taken significant steps for renewable energy in other areas, we shall also succeed in our transport sector. Politics is to want, said Olof Palme once. That truth still holds true. This truth, however, does not only apply to politics. It also applies to all private initiatives, such as in business and individual homeowners, which help to shift and develop our country in a climate-smart direction. If politics and the market pull in the same direction and stimulate each other, we can take major leaps in development over time, step by step. Last week in Västerås, the first spadtags were taken for a research and development centre for electric car batteries, among other things. In Gothenburg, work is under way to create an innovation centre for electric cars on the same land where ships were previously built. These examples show that Sweden is at the forefront. If we choose to sit passively in the back seat, we risk losing jobs instead of creating new ones. Madam President, I would like The transport of the future will not only be driven on electricity. We will have several different fuels, because the transport industry requires different solutions. That was one of the reasons why the government launched the Climate Act. Climate change is a state investment aid that gives municipalities, regions, housing associations and the business community the opportunity to invest in the solutions that best suit their conditions. It may be the installation of charging poles in Huddinge or Lundby or the construction of a biofuel tank station in Sala. In 2017, it was invested, among other things, in 16 tank stations for liquid biogas for heavy goods vehicles. No action is too small. Both small and large climate ranges against smaller emissions are set, and each invested krona will provide the greatest possible climate benefit. Inefficient, says the opposition, who intends to scrap the bets if they win the elections in September. Madam President, I would like I can't believe that the Alliance is against the Climate Scene. One moment a announcement is addressed to the government that measures to reduce climate impact should indeed be based on socio-economic and environmentally effective measures. The next step is to scrap one of the most cost- and eco-efficient investment aid we have. The Alliance wants to scrap the Climate Centre, which both takes account of local conditions and has broad popular support and which also reduces emissions by 270 000 tonnes per year. This corresponds to emissions from 77 000 cars in one year. Almost 1,600 projects are on the roll. And interest, Madam President, is only increasing. A situation description from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency in April shows that the technology shifts and innovations implemented within the Climate Centre strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish business and that 2,350 full-year employment contracts have been created so far. But the Alliance obviously does not think that local innovations that strengthen Swedish competitiveness and create thousands of jobs are socio-economically or environmentally effective. Madam President, I would like Of course, in order to achieve the target of a 70% reduction in emissions from the transport sector, we need to change our travel patterns. More people need to travel collectively instead of by car. But for that to be possible, we must have a public transport system that is fast and efficient. This is why the government introduced the urban environment agreements, which allow municipalities and regions to have efficient and climate-smart collective and bicycle solutions co-financed by the state. This, too, has been very successful and requested. Thanks to the urban environment agreements, Kalmar residents, for example, will now be able to travel faster to work and to school by bus and bicycle. Climate-smart public transport in Kalmar and in the rest of Sweden, both the Center Party and other opposition parties tend to encourage, at least in rhetoric. But when we come to practice, it is not as obvious, Madam President, because this does not fit under the Alliance's definition of socio-economic and environmentally effective climate action. Madam President, I would like The government is introducing the 1 July change of fuel, which Karin Svensson Smith mentioned. This means that we are gradually bringing more biofuels into petrol and diesel, and the goal is for us to have half of biofuels in our thoughts by 2030. We are also increasing the investment in railway maintenance by 40 billion over the next twelve years. Of course, it will provide more reliable transport by rail, but the lack of track means that we need to look at how we transport goods and goods in the country. Here we have great potential in shipping. By making better use of coastal and inland navigation, we can carry more goods with lower emissions. In order to increase the transfer, the government has introduced a so-called eco-bonus, which provides an incentive for the companies that choose to transfer goods to shipping. In addition to all these proposals, we will introduce bonus– malus, which means that if you buy a low-emission car you will get a bonus, but if you instead choose a new petrol – or diesel driven car you will have to pay higher taxes. In addition, we have introduced an electric bus premium, and the work to digitise and streamline transport is under way. Against the government's ambitions, therefore, there is not too much of an opposition. They are not out-of-date just because they say no to high-speed trains or airline taxes," said Moderate Party leader Ulf Kristersson in Ekot's Saturday interview last week. Of course, every party is free to say no to solutions, but that requires showing the alternatives. Responsibility is also required from an opposition, because all parties in this House know that uncomfortable decisions must be taken to reduce emissions. All parties in this House know that we will not achieve the 70% reduction target unless we continue to work forward. Nevertheless, some parties choose to duck for reality in the belief that things will work out if we just wait a little longer. Standing passively in the face of major challenges is not for us Social Democrats. When necessary but tough decisions have to be made, we dare to make those decisions. Madam President, I would like The actions the opposition is prepared to take are obscure. On the other hand, they require in a declaration that the government's actions should be based on socio-economic and environmentally effective measures. Of course, we have no other opinion than that strong measures are needed to reduce the climate impact of the transport sector. The question is rather what the opposition means. What bets should be removed? Is it the charging poles outside the hospitals in Gävleborg you're thinking about? Or is it the electric buses in Malmö that make you pull your ears? What concrete initiatives do you think are not up to date? And what are your socio-economic and environmentally efficient policy options? Do you have a plan, or is the plan just to say no to our proposals without presenting your own? You say 'no' to climate change, 'no' to the urban environment agreement, 'no' to public transport in rural areas and 'no' to increased energy taxes on petrol and diesel. What exactly is it that you affirm? Madam President, I would like It is not only the government that has greater ambitions than the opposition. Today we have a business sector that wants to go further in the field of climate than the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats want. In a debate by representatives from Volvo and Scania, among others, the following was written: The representatives unequivocally support the Government's ambitions for Sweden to become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. They see what development opportunities are created with new technology and that can quickly be spread globally, and they see that Sweden has clearly shown that fossil freedom is a prerequisite for increased welfare both nationally and globally. Governments, trade unions and industry recognise that the future lies in fossil-free. And if we don't take the lead, someone else will. Then Sweden not only risks losing out on new jobs. We risk losing many of the jobs we already have. For us Social Democrats, it is obvious that Sweden should be the world leader in the development of new technologies and solutions. We have launched collaboration programmes between state and industry to work together to develop new efficient and climate-smart transport solutions. We see test beds for electric roads outside Gävle and Arlanda. We see in Gothenburg how the Västra Götaland region together with Volvo and Chalmers test drive large electric buses that give both less emissions and less noise. Large and small solutions – they all have it in common that they lead to lower emissions and more jobs and are therefore socio-economically and environmentally efficient. Madam President, I would like The transformation work in the transport sector is an absolute necessity, and we have a government that is working purposefully forward. A government that sees the possibilities and not just the problems. A government that realizes the seriousness, who takes responsibility and who dares to take hold of it that others duck for. Every small step in reducing emissions in the transport sector is important. The small steps are getting bigger, and with the larger steps we can take even bigger and faster leaps in the work with the continued transition to a fossil-independent transport sector. And that's where we're going! Together, Madam President, we can do it!
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-159	Madam President, I would like It has not gone by the way that we face one of the greatest challenges in human history when we are to take responsibility for not only ourselves, not just our civilisation, but the climate of the whole earth. It's something that I think most little children know and something that I think most of all ages care about. Just look out into the world and see how often the so-called centenary rains come, how the desert spreads, and how the rain forest is destroyed to see how the climate affects us all more or less. Even in the discussion on civil defence, which has previously been about whether or not the Russian is going to come and kill us, questions about how to protect ourselves against natural disasters and unexpected weather phenomena are beginning to take up more and more space. That, of course, makes this one of the most important issues we are discussing in this House. We discuss it from a slightly different point of view, I feel, but I will come to that in a little while. What I think we can all agree on is that we will have to continue to travel. We're gonna have to keep seeing each other. Of course, there are new technologies that allow you to have meetings remotely, but the human meeting is something that in a digitized world will be even more sought after. Transport of goods produced there in the world they do the most good or are most efficient to be produced and then delivered where they do the most good on the market will also continue. Free trade is something that builds prosperity and builds our power to deal with major challenges such as climate challenges. Sweden is well placed to do this. In Sweden, we have forests that are an enormous resource for the production of biofuels, and we have an industry that is constantly taking new steps in that direction. What this industry needs is long-term conditions, stable conditions to develop and create jobs and the conditions to also carry this form of technology on export. It is therefore a good thing that we are now implementing the change of fuel or the so-called reduction obligation, but that is not enough. Madam President, I would like Sweden is a country with a high level of knowledge and with high-tech companies that develop new solutions in a variety of areas. It can also become an export product, along with biofuels. We agree on this and a lot more. But what bothers me and concerns me is that this government, under an environmental flag, is engaged in things that have other negative consequences and that erode the commitment of the ordinary motorist or traveler to try to do the right thing. Because in the end, you don't know what's right. One example of this is the environmental zones that the government now wants to introduce. We said until just a few years ago that the best thing to do was to get a diesel car. A diesel engine was more efficient and emissions per kilometre lower, and this was encouraged. Now the government wants to put an end to this and say that the diesel car is among the worst you can buy, and you will not get to drive it in some places. Madam President, I would like The debate held before our debate by the members of the Committee on Civil Liberties was about over-indebtedness and sometimes you need to borrow in order to have the opportunity to buy a car. The fact that the state, when it has taken such a risk to cope with its everyday life, decides to introduce environmental zones that further reduce the value of the investment, hardly helps those who have had to do so to make their everyday lives go together. It hardly increases confidence in the state's climate policy or the will to try to do the right thing when you probably feel quite fooled. The next concern is that this government, despite the fact that we have now received more information and now know that it will cost more than was initially thought, and despite the fact that the climate benefits are not really clear, chooses to move forward with a very large investment in high-speed trains. My party and I have taken on board the consequences of the new facts we have had on the table. We thought, at a time when the price tag was lower and the benefits were estimated to be very large, that we could reach all the way through with such a project. Now we see how the cost estimates are running, that there are still great uncertainties and that the benefits are definitely below the costs expected for high-speed trains. Then you have to draw a simple conclusion. Is it the case that these conditions can change and that high-speed trains can be significantly cheaper, or that benefits can increase? Can it go faster so that we do not have to wait until I am 55 – I am now 28 – before the first train leaves the central station? Then the conditions may have changed once again, but they are not likely to. When you look out in the world at those who have chosen to invest in high-speed trains, you are quite quickly satisfied with self-confidence in the position that I have chosen myself. Sweden is not a country like Japan, with a million city after a million city. When the Transport Committee visited Japan, I asked the question: How many people have to live in a city along the existing railway line for it to have a station? The answer was: There must certainly not be less than 2 million people living in the city. How big a radius are you counting on? Yeah, about five miles from the station. Madam President, I would like Stockholm, which is our largest city, does not meet that requirement. Even parts of the Japanese railway still do not go together. Therefore, we want the transformation to be based precisely on knowledge, and not just any knowledge, but confirmed knowledge. We are going to use best technology and try to encourage us to end up there with a technology-neutral approach, which means that we do not again end up in a situation like that where we urged people to buy diesel cars in order to turn the other way in the next moment and go another way. It is a matter of being socially efficient. If we do not use every chandelier in the absolute best way, we have squandered it and weakened our ability to make the transition in a serious way. Then you cannot engage in things such as e-bike premiums or spend money that is not even available on high-speed trains, and you cannot put away the feet of those who have tried to make a good environmental choice, through environmental zones, before they have been given the chance to reset. The question, which has been asked here before, is what we want to do. We have given examples of this. For example, we want a new car pool definition to be in place so that we can stimulate more car pools. We also express in one of our reservations a call that this with electric roads should not stop at test projects in Gävle and outside Uppsala but also be lifted into the national plan. The government has another day before you have to leave that plan. We must ensure that we have efficiency in our transport system and long-term conditions, so that people have the chance to switch and the industry has the chance to be established. It is only if we in Sweden can become a long-term paradise for those who want to develop the new technology and the new biofuels that we will be able to make this an export success. If we now have the railway we have, which we have, we must take care of it. If we choose to put all resources on high-speed trains, existing railways will be obscured. High-speed trains show all signs of being a cuckoo who pushes away other important investments. The first clear example of this is that the money does not exist. When they're about to arrive, they have to come from somewhere. Instead, we need to make a proper effort on the railways we have today. During the time of the alliance government, efforts on maintenance doubled. This government has made another bet, and we match it. But we need to have an idea of how to use our railways in the most efficient way. Therefore, the Moderates are proposing a national traffic supply programme, where we now need to start prioritising the use of our rails in order to make it as efficient as possible. To continue as now and just restock, without evaluating what is effective and inefficient, is not sustainable in the long term, whether you are for high-speed trains or not. Traffic start 2045 means, as I said, that we need to do a lot along the way. When you stand in this House debating with the Minister for Infrastructure, who certainly does not want to draw up a national transport supply plan, even though investigator Gunnar Alexandersson in his very thorough investigation suggested this and said that it was necessary to use the facility in the most efficient way, you become thoughtful. Why is that so wrong? Madam President, I would like We agree on a lot. We disagree about a lot too. That is why I think it is important that this debate continues. What I think we need to work towards together is long-term conditions and honesty towards the voters and users of environmental policy and the transition to a fossil-free vehicle fleet. With this, I support our reservations Nos 5 and 6.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-180	Madam President, I would like We agree on a lot. Socio-economic efficiency, of course, I see as a salute to us in the red-green society as well. The question, however, is what the meaning is. What is socio-economically effective? When I studied economics in Lund we talked quite a lot about internalisation of external effects. What destroys the economy, for both private and other players, must be priced. It must be included in the cost of what you use. Otherwise, it will not be effective in either the business economy, the private economy or the national economy. Some transports give rise to effects that must be priced and added to the cost of using them. This applies to air taxes and to road user charges, where costs are currently passed on to others. I therefore wonder whether Erik Ottoson thinks the market economy principle is wrong or right. This is what the government applies when it is behind taxes on flights and road wear. Another question I have is: What message does Erik Ottoson want to give to today's rail passengers? New main courses perform many functions. Of course, it is best known that they are needed in order to be able to travel quickly and efficiently without using aviation, which is totally dependent on oil which cannot be replaced by biofuels in the near future. But they are also a prerequisite for people to arrive on time. People vote with their feet. More and more trains travel. Today's railway system doesn't hold everyone who wants to go by train if the trains are to go on time. How do you in the Moderates want to solve that problem if you don't want to build a new railroad?
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-185	Madam President, I would like I want to start with Karin Svensson Smiths's questions about economics. We clearly see different social economics if Karin Svensson Smith thinks that an investment in high-speed trains would be socially profitable even though it does not have the same benefits as costs even after looking at the climate effects. Then it is quite clear that we have completely different views on economics. We also see very differently what is necessary for the railways. Karin Svensson Smith talks about coming on time. Yes, if you book a meeting today and arrive in 2045, you're probably late. That is one of the major problems with this. If we choose to proceed with the high-speed project, we will have a situation where we need to spend almost all the money we have on building a railway that is not ready until 2045. During that time, it will not be possible to make the necessary investments in existing facilities in order for people to arrive on time. The fact that we are going to be able to build new railways does not in itself stand in stark contrast to saying no to high-speed railways. There are other bets you can make. I think they will have a better effect in less time. There are many ways to turn this around. It is also quite obvious. But for me and my party it is now quite clear that we cannot wait until 2045 until we have the opportunity to arrive on time.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-188	Madam President, I would like Doing what you want less of the more expensive is one way of using rational economic principles. Therefore, I still wonder, Erik Ottoson, about Moderates' attitude when you say no to airline tax and road wear tax. Fair conditions are reasonable if people are to use less oil in the transport system. It is also about benefits. If you look at the Swedish Transport Administration's report comparing speeds of 250 and 320 kilometres per hour on the Ostlink, you can see that the benefits are considerably greater if you drive 320 kilometres per hour for the simple reason that there are more passengers. If you are to assess a project's economy, you have to look at both costs and benefits. If you are going to Stockholm – Malmö gives speed 320 kilometres an hour twice as many passengers. This increases revenue as track charges and ticket revenues also increase. As far as funding is concerned, it would be nice if Erik Ottoson could listen or read more accurately what HG Wessberg said about this. He led the Swedish hearing in an exemplary way, for which we who like to ride trains can really be grateful. He insisted on spreading the benefits over a longer period of time and also spreading the payment over a longer period of time. I suppose it also applies to private families and municipalities – you rarely buy houses in cash, and municipalities rarely pay schools in cash. You shouldn't do anything different than when our ancestors built the first main roads. Then they borrowed, and so should they. HG Wessberg has described it in more detail than I can mention here. If you do this, you can probably get advice to arrange for both today's and tomorrow's travelers.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-191	Madam President, I would like For the sake of clarity, I shall say that I am in favour of reservations 9 and 16. Karin Svensson Smith, let me start with the high-speed train and this by borrowing money to make an investment that cannot be counted home even in the foreseeable future but first very far beyond what is clear. Yeah, it's definitely a stand-up thing to do. HG Wessberg, who sadly passed away some time ago, did a great deal of work with the Swedish negotiation. But when we look at the results, we can see that we still do not have a krona-for-krona funding for high-speed trains. You can certainly choose to borrow if you now want to make a major departure from the fiscal framework. But Karin Svensson Smith does not even bring her government colleagues from the Social Democrats. It is probably one of the worst kept secrets by now that the Social Democrats are trying to pull their foot out of that bear trap before it strikes again. So we can see that there is no money for high-speed trains. We will not see any benefits of high-speed trains until everything is in place, at the earliest in 2045. I also like to ride trains, but I especially like to ride trains so that I get on time before 2045. I think that this is something that we should actually be able to agree with each other. The investments that need to be made on the railways need to be made now. We can't wait. It is absolutely essential that we also invest in other modes of transport, so that we have the full range of modes of transport that we need to meet the climate challenges. Then we need not only the railways, but the whole transport system. Then the high-speed train must not become a cuckoo who removes that possibility.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-196	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation 3. The environment is global. We must all help to do what we can not destroy for future generations. Since the environment is global, we should focus efforts and assistance where they are most useful. I am thinking of exporting technology and know-how. But certainly we can do a lot to reduce emissions also in Sweden, not least in the transport sector. But in our zeal for the environment, we must not run out of reason. We can't make old mistakes again. I am thinking, among other things, of the Pump Act, which we would like to have a review of. They bet on the E85, which turned out to be a flop that destroys the cars. We see that rural gas stations are being shut down because they are not profitable. What kind of fuel will we have in the future? Does anyone know today? Is it just electricity? Is that gas? Is that another version of E85? Is there any new fuel we will use? We don't know that. It is important that we give the market the opportunity to develop this and that we set long-term goals, so that the market itself helps to bring down fossil fuels. We have heard about investments here earlier today. At Arlanda, electric rails have been milled down like car tracks. I think it is an excellent opportunity to get a good fuel for cars on long journeys. It is rumored that if electric roads had been milled down in all major highways and European roads in Sweden it would have a cost of 160 billion. This would have allowed the electric roads to be milled down by about two kilometres per hour, so it is a fairly rapid extension. But the question is: Is it possible to do so? Now we have a test station, and I hope you will test this and find out if it is possible to do so even in Norrland, where you have snow walls up to two meters along the roads. Up in Sandviken you have a test track where you drive with overhead pipes. Airline is definitely nothing new. In Gothenburg we have trams that run with overhead lines. In Landskrona we have trolleybuses. In California, among other things, induction is used to drive the cars. Is that an opportunity? Yeah, we don't know that. But, as I said, it is important that we take a strong step in the whole transport industry. I am thinking not least of shipping. We've established inland waterways. But what happened? Barely anything. The shipowners are stoking. They want to get traffic started, but the costs are huge. You introduce eco-bonus, but you kill the shipowners with fee increases from the Swedish Maritime Administration. We could make much more use of shipping – coastal shipping and inland waterways. We need to rethink and think again. I am thinking of barge traffic and how to transport soil masses to urban construction. Why isn't that done by the lake today? No, you drive by truck all the way instead of driving to the nearest quay and moving on via barge traffic. In Holland they are experts on this. About 50% of the transport takes place by sea. In Sweden it is 7. We can do a lot there. We know that ships are energy efficient, and we can use them much more. In this respect, I strongly believe that we should make efforts. Then the debate on high-speed rail has been up. Erik Ottoson, who spoke earlier, has visited Japan. I had the opportunity to go to China. Now I did not have the opportunity to ask Erik how many inhabitants in every city there would be. But in the small town we stayed in, there were only 10 million inhabitants. It is therefore far from the inhabitants of Stockholm. We also say no to high-speed rail. Above all, we do not believe that it is the solution. On the other hand, we think it would be sensible for the Finnish Transport Agency to increase the speed to 250 kilometres per hour and build on the technology available today. If high-speed rail is to be built, a smart rail, a bridge, must be built. Now comes new technology, so why stay at old technology? I look quite a lot at hyperloop, for example. There we could have built a very fast railway and also a very efficient railway. We need to build more railroad. For example, there is a lack of information between Gothenburg and Jönköping, via Landvetter. So it is not just a question of rearmament, but we definitely need to rearrange. When I came into Parliament there was a little problem with the railway. Then it turned out well. Now it's hopeless to go by rail. It is therefore about the renovation of rail before we build or think of building a high-speed railway, which is inefficient and expensive and which creates a large barrier effect in Sweden. Then I thought I'd mention some curiosity. I talked earlier to my colleague Per Klarberg about battery cars. It was a bit interesting when it turned out that a battery car in Sweden generates about 0.2 litres of petrol per mile while the same battery car in China generates 1.3 litres of petrol per mile. But sure, it sounds cute with battery. It's zero emissions. However, the emissions that result in this coming into the car and being delivered must also be looked at.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-211	Madam President, I would like The discussion, debate, which we in Parliament's Committee on Transport and Tourism are having today in this House should, in particular, be about how we turn to a fossil-free society. We need to work with strong, long-term sustainable, clear and socio-economically rational reasons and incentives for a change in all modes of transport in order to achieve the goal. Whether you are a vehicle manufacturer, road builder or a customer in the transport system, you need to know that the information given and the decisions taken are stable. Otherwise, we will never be able to change the transport sector in the few years remaining until 2030. As a representative of the Center Party, I am convinced that a transition to a fossil-independent transport sector and the fleet of vehicles is both necessary and possible. This change must also be combined with increased accessibility and mobility for both people and goods throughout the country. The Center Party continues to be a driving force in promoting renewables and the environment throughout the country. A fossil-independent vehicle fleet is an ambitious and necessary objective which also represents a chance, as many previous speakers have said from the speaker's seat. I share that view. It is also a chance for the Swedish transport industry to take the lead in the global climate transition. Because that is exactly what some speaker before me said: the industry is on its toes. The industry has got the signals. Madam President, I would like I also think it is good to have something in the report that we are discussing and which will be put to the vote later on. It is good that it is a parliamentary majority that now decides, against the reservation of the cooperation parties, that the government's work to achieve a fossil-independent vehicle fleet by 2030 should be based on socio-economically and environmentally effective measures. It is almost incomprehensible, Madam President, why the parties of the cooperation government, the Social Democrats and the Green Party, supported by the Left, are opposed to this. The fact that the work is to be based on environmentally and socio-economically effective measures is, of course, self-evident. But one can put it against devices such as air taxes, road wear charges with several measures taken by this government, where an almost fiscal concern for the revenue side of public finances is a stronger driver than environmental work. It makes this announcement both important and necessary. Madam President, I would like Moreover, as many of us know, but not all of us recognise, some of these measures, such as the road wear charge, risk being directly counterproductive in the process of switching to a fossil-independent vehicle fleet in our country. The fact that the climate impact of growing transport work – everything indicates that both personal and tonne-kilometres will increase very strongly – can be broken and that the ambitious 2030 targets can be achieved, we are politically agreed in the Swedish parliament. That's very good. Questions about how to proceed and which path to take, I think, will be the subject of many discussions both here today and in the future. However, it is quite acceptable and reasonable in a democracy to have a discussion on how common objectives are to be achieved. The Centre Party and the Alliance believe that the climate impact of transport can be reduced by exploiting the potential of new technologies, through an increased share of renewable fuels and through a high climate performance of both vehicles and fuels, but also through much more efficient transport. Efforts to reduce the climate impact of transport are best made, in my view and in the way the Centre Party sees it, by applying effective and technology-neutral instruments, which are long-term, clear and reliable. It contributes to technology development, a change in behaviour and an increased use of what are sustainable solutions. In order for there to be a consensus and a synergy between society's expectations and the transport industry's high ambitions, energy manufacturers' investments and more, of course, require precisely long-term stable conditions. The whole committee has seen this very clearly in connection with hearings and so on, where we have heard vehicle manufacturers, road builders and fuel manufacturers say, for example, that they need long-term and clear answers in order to be able to make the investments needed to make the transition. On top of that, Madam President, I would like to highlight a few other points where there is a great deal of consensus. In order to achieve the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector, many different technologies need to be used. In addition to an increased share of biofuels, increased electrification of transport is also important. Technology development is fast, not least regarding batteries, and it is likely that the development we see on the passenger car side will also spread to shipping and other heavy road traffic. As I and the Center Party see it, electric vehicles will play an important role in achieving the national climate target for the transport sector, given that the electricity tanks in the battery or from a charging rail are green and renewable. Electrification of transport can also contribute to the achievement of objectives in relation to other societal problems such as congestion, noise and air quality. For this to happen, however, there must be long-term market rules to deal with when working to promote the development of electric vehicles. The need for long-term rules of play has been raised both in connection with liquid renewable fuel and by those who are prepared to invest in electrical technology. I am absolutely convinced that the need for electrification will increase in the future, and we also know that technological development is progressing very quickly. Vehicle range is increasing. At the same time, there is a potential in this area for Sweden to become a leading player in charging services, charging technology and smart services. Someone mentioned in a previous speech investments in Västerås, and I think it refers to the side investment made linked to Skellefteå and Northvolt. It is this type of investment that will contribute to Sweden's leading global position. In order for this to be possible – it must not just be a wish – the Center Party is asking for a national plan for electrification of the transport sector. Such a plan must include investments in alternative fuel stations across the country, simplified building rules for charging poles in new parking and residential buildings, research and demonstration of electric roads and electrification of freight and bus services. Madam President, I would like On behalf of the Center Party in this debate, I also call for clarity in the rules of the game around what is called car pools. A car pool is a sharing service where people come to a changed behavior, an insight or a belief that you rather than own your own car share the service of a passenger car with some others. This is one of many important steps to reduce emissions and at the same time increase mobility and reduce congestion. I have described the idea of car pools, but one obstacle to further development is the lack of a legal definition of the concept of car pool. The consequence of the absence of a law on car pools is that municipalities cannot use certain instruments to promote car pool use, for example by identifying specific parking spaces for car pool use. When the distinguished Svante Axelsson from Fossil-free Sweden visited the Transport Committee, he pointed out as one of many examples that precisely the absence of a definition of car pools, in order to enable municipalities to use different instruments, is a shortcoming in the current legislation. It is regrettable, Madam President, that it should take so long for the government to review the question of how a definition of a car pool could be implemented. In this report, the Center Party believes, and therefore intends to reserve its reservations, that the Government must be given the task of rapidly developing a legal definition of car pool in order to make car pools more accessible and attractive. It is a combination of technology development, behavior and long-term rules of play. In addition, Madam President, I support the committee's proposal in the report, except where the Centre Party and the Alliance have reservations. For time winning, I only ask for the approval of reservations 5 and 9.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-229	Madam President, I would like We have seen and heard that Anders Åkesson is now sending an announcement to the government about socio-economic and environmentally effective measures. Anders Åkesson mentioned in his speech what socio-economic efficiency is not, namely that you have to pay for what you soil, and so he refers to road wear and air taxes. I want to know: What are socio-economic and environmentally effective measures in Anders Åkesson's world?
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-231	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pia Nilsson, for the question! I have just mentioned the air tax and the kilometre tax, because these are such bad examples of attempts on the part of this government to protect a revenue side in the state budget rather than to achieve climate benefits. Probably one of the least effective ways to reduce climate emissions is to lay down a flight chair from Kalmar to Stockholm, from Malmö to Stockholm or from Skellefteå to Stockholm with a fee of 60 SEK when I fly domestic and a few hundred SEK if I fly abroad. We will soon have figures for that, Madam President, when this air tax has been a little spinning. The willingness to pay is there, I am absolutely convinced, and it will turn out very soon, Pia Nilsson, that if one had used this money and instead refueled the green biojet and created a stable long-term and growing demand for that fuel, the climate benefit would have been infinitely greater. The Kilometer tax prefers Pia Nilsson to call a road wear charge to lead us to believe that you should pay for what you work on, and you should do that. But this road wear charge will mean that the raw material on which we cook the biojet, to flights and to vehicles for conversion will not be economically available in the forest where it grows. Therefore, it becomes counterproductive with ideas such as road wear charge or tax at a distance, as I would rather call it. Taxes govern, that is quite right, but we must also have the means to govern the right.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-236	Madam President, I would like I note that there was not a single proposal on what are socio-economic and environmentally effective measures, but what is not. I can only respond briefly to what Anders Åkesson said about aviation and biofuels. There is an investigation that will of course work on this, and it is positive for the flight with another fuel. But it doesn't take away the treasure. I think it is too early to say today that this will have no effect. This announcement is generally directed towards government action. Then I wonder about the Climate Tree. Climate change is, of course, the investment aid of approximately 43 per cent that the state provides, not least for the 50 projects that exist in Kalmar and that together have reduced emissions by 20 000 tonnes. This corresponds to emissions from 5 700 cars in Kalmar. Anders Åkesson says no to this. He doesn't think it's sufficiently socio-economically and environmentally effective, because if you had done it, Anders Åkesson, you would have said that you of course think that Klimatklivet should continue to develop. But we do not hear this. Is it not worth investing in the new biogas station Eon Biofor, at Kifab or at Guntorp Manor, which has now received project money for charging stations? This creates new jobs and lowers emissions. But Anders Åkesson does not think it is socio-economically or environmentally effective. What, then, is economically and environmentally effective?
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-241	Madam President, I would like Like Pia Nilsson, I am delighted with the environmental progress being made in Kalmar, Västerås, Sala and elsewhere, because it is good. They build charging poles and biogas stations, they introduce electric buses in Värnamo and so on. The thing is, Madam President and Pia Nilsson, that very much of what Pia Nilsson brings up – the charging poles in Guntorp, the biogas station in Kalmar and so on – I am absolutely convinced that had happened anyway. Given that those who run Guntorp's inn and those who sell vehicles in Kalmar and elsewhere know that it is now biogas that applies, that this is long-term stable and that it rolls out a company car demand, a demand arises. A further concern with Climate Change is that you have cheated-funded it, Pia Nilsson. After all, you have picked money from national planes corresponding to what is now being spent annually on the Climate Tree. You have created a hole in the national plan corresponding to SEK 1 billion for the maintenance and maintenance of roads and railways to be pampered on the Climate Scene. This means that anyone who buys an electric car or biogas car in Kalmar or Västerås risks having a worse road to go on. It's not good funding. Pia is asking for what we in the Center Party want instead of air taxes and kilometre taxes. The kilometric tax is directly bad and counterproductive if we are to switch to biofuels, and we are in fact in full agreement on that. As far as the airline tax is concerned, the Center Party has said: Make an investment corresponding to SEK 750 million in research and development so that the industry gets started and we can start refuelling. Don't punish the one who lives a little bit away!
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-245	Madam President, I would like Several countries are now preparing a ban on new petrol and diesel cars. Among other things, China, Norway, Holland, France, the UK and Germany are looking at how resolutions can be drawn up to ban new petrol and diesel cars from 2030. In Norway, a ban will enter into force already in 2025. We think that Sweden also needs to signal that the industry should change completely, because the fossil car is actually an old-fashioned phenomenon in a climate period. It is to help the industry to invest wholeheartedly and one thing that we think is very important. We would like to introduce a final year for foss cars in combination with bonus-malus in order to create the conditions for controlling to a large proportion of electric cars as quickly as possible and to a growing secondary market, so that everyone can afford an electric car. It is positive that we have a demand from the European Union to extend the infrastructure for electric cars by 2020, a minimum infrastructure throughout the country, which means that there will be conditions to drive such cars if we comply with this requirement. This time we should be good towards Europe, because this is a very important issue. One big and important thing before the election discussions and in the election between the right and the left, I would say is public transport if we are to reach the climate targets, and that we will need more tax money for welfare. Landstingen and the regions have the same money bag that should be sufficient for both health care and public transport. Many county councils do not add as much as is needed to public transport because health care is on its knees. We all know how tough it is in healthcare today. Here we would have to move the tax sector from private consumption to public consumption in order to meet the climate targets as well. Using public transport is the most efficient means of transport, and we would have to expand it very strongly. It is cheap, lucky and has a traffic network that covers the cities very efficiently. In order for public transport to be able to compete with the car, it should be very easy to transport – you should be able to get anywhere in the city – and then you need money. If we are to bring with us all the voters, including those who may not have time to think about the climate issue and those for whom the climate issue is very far away for various reasons, we need to go out with the carrots first. It is incredibly important that we just sprinkle with reforms that make it easy to live climate smart. I don't want it to feel like they're making my life difficult. They're making it very complicated for me. It will be impossible if we choose this government because of the climate instruments. It should be the opposite, that you feel that the parties are doing everything they can to make it easy, and there public transport is extremely important. That is why we will have to make strong tax shifts from private consumption to the public sector, also because we are consuming too much today and have a consumption pattern that is far from sustainable. We will therefore have to reduce working hours, invest more in culture and leisure, the public sector and other quality-of-life things that have nothing to do with private consumption. It is also important that we invest in all modes of transport and help change them. The Left Party was involved in organising a seminar here in Parliament at the beginning of the parliamentary term together with Norway's maritime industry. The Norwegian Government, together with the industry, has developed a conversion plan that is very effective and that we have looked at. It includes, among other things, a carbon dioxide fund that is used to transfer money to shipping. This is something that we think we should investigate whether we could introduce here in Sweden as well. It is also positive that a lot of LNG cable infrastructure is now being expanded. But it will also be important to move away from LNG, because it is still fossil gas. Since it is important that we become completely fossil-free as soon as possible, we will need to look at how to extend biogas to shipping and perhaps also on new technologies such as power to gas, i.e. a technology to make gas out of, among other things, carbon dioxide. I ask for your approval – I hope I say right – to reservation 3.
i-44uoJSPyoiYP3Y99yHCcdv	Madam President, I would like I think Emma Wallrup meant reservation number 2. I have a few questions for Emma Wallrup. She is turning for something that I myself am very committed to, and that is precisely public transport. She described how we need to make an effort to finance public transport because it is often managed by the same authority that is in charge of health care. It is, of course, a difficult balance to strike, and sometimes public transport is a little behind, because health care is so extremely important. How does this reasoning fit in with the fact that her regional representatives in almost every county council and every region are working for reduced fares or even no fares at all? How should public transport be financed in this situation? Is it with tax increases for nurses? Or is it with tax increases for so-called high wage earners, that is, specialist nurses? What are you going to use to finance this, now that you are pursuing an intensive policy of lowering ticket prices? The second thing I reacted to in Emma Wallrup's speech was that she said that one should not have to opt out of a government option because it is too hard, too many bans and tricky. How does she justify her support for the current government and the environmental zones that we are introducing? How does she justify the support for the airline tax and a series of other repressive measures taken by the government and, as ordinary people, find difficult, confusing and problematic?
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-260	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to endorse reservation 2, so that it is right. As far as ticket prices are concerned, it is important that we make it cheaper to do the right thing. In all other areas when you talk price and demand you talk price but not in public transport for some strange reason. If we are to get more people to travel by public transport, we must, of course, reduce the price. This is something that many car travelers also point out. You can do it in several ways. I've looked a lot at the Freiburg model. They have been able to lower the price but still have increased revenues by coordinating urban planning tight. When you expand public transport, make it more difficult for the car and lower the price, you get such a strong leverage effect that you get increased revenue – this according to their experience. It's an important way of working. We also need to redistribute. We must put the money where it is needed in society. More is needed for public transport, cheaper public transport and health care and less for luxury consumption. We need to re-priority in these climate times. Aviation tax provides a fairly small increase in the price of a means of transport that causes great environmental damage. The money, together with the other parties, is to be spent on night trains. At the same time, we are expanding the option, which makes it possible to commute to Norrland. Environmental zones are also important. We shall have both carrots and whips, but it is important to point out that the carrots must be out at the same time or preferably first, and preferably on a large scale, and that we need to have this land perspective in politics.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-266	Madam President, I would like I thank Emma Wallrup for the so-called clarifications. I still don't really understand how Emma Wallrup intends to finance public transport, because even if she uses the Freiburg model, where people who want to move around the city and don't choose to travel collectively do not double the revenues for public transport in this way, which she needs to do if you are going to travel for free. On average, 50% of our public transport is financed with ticket revenues. In many places it is considerably more than that. This is what Emma Wallrup must remedy if she believes that public transport should be the solution to how we can travel fossil-free and be able to pursue such a transport policy. It is a problem she has still not solved in the debate. Therefore, I intend to continue to ask the question: how high increases in county taxes and regional taxes around Sweden to finance your reduced fares without having to go out on people's opportunities to travel collectively? In countries and cities that have tested this with much cheaper or free public transport, the destruction and wear and tear of public transport has increased disproportionately, so that they have increased costs. I am kind to Emma Wallrup when she says that she only needs to double the tax money that goes to this, because it is probably about a lot more.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-271	Madam President, I would like I believe that the Freiburg model is used first and that public transport is being expanded considerably and then prices are gradually reduced, perhaps especially for certain groups. Reducing tariffs favours low-income people, pensioners who have a tough time, families with children and young people so that they have a different freedom to travel in the city. Now that we have had such large economic gaps, this can be of enormous benefit to their personal economy. Lowering prices is therefore very important. We want to introduce zero rates on trials in different regions and then evaluate them to see how it works before we fully implement them. It should not be sprinkled with tax money without it being of benefit to the climate. First, you have to know what you are doing, take one step at a time and perhaps focus above all on groups, such as free public transport for pensioners in Gothenburg. These are very good measures. I am in favour of first extending and lowering the price in large cities where public transport is not sufficiently extended so that it can be further extended, and then trying out how quickly to move forward.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-275	Madam President, I would like I agree with all the Liberals' proposals in the report, but for time to come, I only call for reservation No 9. Madam President, I would like Emissions from transport must be radically reduced if the target of a fossil-independent vehicle fleet is to be achieved by 2030. The debate is really about how, because we agree on the objective. For the Liberals, the issues are also about green tax shifting, that is, we have higher environmental taxes and lower taxes on labour. The issue is passenger transport and freight transport. As far as freight transport is concerned, I would like to remind you of the importance of free trade. Free trade builds prosperity, and that must be included in the debate. Sweden is a sparsely populated country; we have 23 inhabitants per square kilometre. This places demands on the transport sector. How will goods be transported into the country, and how will people be able to travel all over Sweden? It is about mobility for people and goods. It is also about giving consumers and citizens the opportunity to make climate-smart choices. In this report, some road users are completely missing, but I always stress their role: cyclists and pedestrians. It's really about being climate smart. Mobility, being able to change modes of transport and being able to see the whole journey from A to B is important. It is also important that when we make investments we consider where we start with them. The four-step principle is usually discussed by many. Yes, it is about taking care of and sharpening what already exists and then, ultimately, extending what needs to be supplemented. It is about making it easy to choose to travel collectively and to have systems to make the trip easy throughout the country. It's about travel cards and much more. The report also deals with issues that have not been touched on very much, such as electrification, infrastructure in the form of charging poles and electric roads. These are environmental zones, car pools, parking and, not least, shipping. I was going to touch on these different areas. Madam President, I would like Electrification is a huge potential that is important for us to achieve our climate goals. Increased electrification of the transport sector is crucial and requires more research and development. The road to a climate-smart society requires long-term investment to which it is reasonable for the public to be involved and contribute. These are structural investments linked to the infrastructure, and there the public has an important role to play. The focus of investments shall be to reduce emissions and target support towards efforts where the funds invested have the greatest climate impact. In addition, there will be measures that benefit many people and contribute to the transition towards a climate-smarter society. Increased electrification of the transport sector is crucial, and this requires better infrastructure. Madam President, I would like The technologies for electric roads have developed strongly in recent years, and now they are mature enough to be demonstrated. In 2016, the world's first electric road was opened in Sweden. A pantograph on the roof of the truck feeds the power down to the truck's hybrid engine – that's fantastic. In April 2018, another road was opened. The electric road works by transferring energy to the vehicle from the rail in the road via a moving arm. That's smart. We can see that trucks driven by this technology do not in principle account for greenhouse gas emissions and, at the same time, the noise normally generated by this type of transport is more or less eliminated. It is a smart solution, and therefore the question arises why no more is being done to make these efforts a reality. And why is Trafikverket not asked to propose roads that could be electrified? It's incredibly important. As far as environmental zones are concerned, Liberals are of the opinion that this may be a tool at local level, but we would like to see a further design of such zones. Partially, it should be ensured to use tools dealing with charging and pricing. The line of prohibition is not the best way to go. Many have made investments, and if we look out in Europe, we see that there are many other ways of achieving a governing instrument in the environmental zones. There, fees are a common model. However, we in the Liberals believe that other types of measures are also important to ensure that air quality is improved in cities. We like to see fees on studded tyres, we want to invest in car pools and we want to ensure that you get smart parking solutions and car pools that work. Here I can see that the government parties have not taken steps to ensure that we get these smarter solutions. Madam President, I would like It is important that consumers are properly informed about the emissions of cars. Here I have recently had a debate with one of the ministers. We need to strengthen the possibility for consumers to obtain accurate information. It is consumers who are totally at risk when acting as consumers, trying to be climate-smart and buying that car that they think is a good choice. Consumers must be involved, and they must have long-term rules of play. Rules and decisions must enable consumers to make climate-smart decisions. Sweden must do a great deal more here. Madam President, I would like The use of car pools is an important step in reducing emissions and at the same time increasing mobility – opting out of ownership but still having access to a car when you need it. It is gratifying that the concept has become increasingly appreciated, but there are still major problems in developing the possibilities. An ordinary passenger car stands still 97% of the time, and through increased sharing we can use the resources efficiently. Today, however, there is no legal definition of the concept of car pool. Why does the government not remedy this problem? The consequence is that municipalities cannot use certain instruments to promote car pool use, such as creating special parking areas for car pool cars. Fossil-free Sweden visited the Transport Committee in March 2018 and stressed the importance of a definition of car pools in order to enable municipalities to use different instruments to increase the use of car pools and enable consumers to make climate-smart choices. But we still lack a regulatory framework. Why? Madam President, I would like As far as parking is concerned, it is also about the development of a more sustainable transport system. It is important that both the state and municipalities have the opportunity to reward those who make an active choice to reduce emissions of climate gases. Parking rules can be an effective way of influencing the extent to which a more environmentally friendly vehicle is chosen when it is time to buy a new car. Since 2011, municipalities have been able to reserve charging points and parking spaces for electric cars and charging hybrids. But it should also be possible to reward cars in car pools or environmental cars in a similar way. Therefore, municipalities should be allowed to introduce a system of differentiated parking fees based on the environmental classification of the vehicle in order to promote the emergence of more environmentally friendly vehicles. It is about giving consumers the opportunity to make climate-smart choices and that we have instruments that work. Madam President, I would like Maritime transport is also covered in the report. It is one of our really climate-smart opportunities for the future – for goods and for passenger transport. I have recently discussed shipping, and it is about Kvarken and Gotland and about ports and transports to and from our ports. We must do more here. It is good from a climate point of view that there is a transhipment of goods from, for example, road to shipping, and Sweden is dependent on a well-functioning shipping. Our waterways are important for increasing the share of sustainable transport. But I would also like to point out that it is important that the environmentally friendly modes of transport are attractive and competitive so that they can be used effectively. Maritime transport needs better conditions, and instruments need to be developed that reward the fact that we are getting increasingly environmentally friendly shipping. Madam President, I would like A fossil-independent transport sector requires many different efforts, and I have only touched on a few here. Much more needs to be done among businesses, among consumers and in the public sector. I noted that in its report, the Transport Committee's research group pointed out that increased domestic biofuel production and increased electrification can enable us to achieve the objectives set. It is important to point this out, to affirm new technologies, innovations and entrepreneurship and to find solutions through knowledge, research and innovation. We can and will have confidence in the future that we can solve the challenges that exist, and we need to create long-term rules of play.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-302	Madam President, I would like It is true that we agree on the goal in words: Sweden will become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. However, in terms of measures, there is quite a difference. I was in Parliament in 1998–2006 when the green folk house was introduced. The then Prime Minister appointed the Oil Commission and had with many companies. We introduced congestion tax in Stockholm. A lot of people were against it, but afterwards I haven't heard anyone who wants to abolish it. We increased funding for rail investments from EUR 39 billion to EUR 101 billion. Without this money, Citybanan would not have existed today and not Norway – Vänernlinken either. We could have done more, but we in the red-green gang actually did some 1998-2006. What happened then, 2006– 2014? What I thought was best during those terms of office was the study on fossil fuel independence. It was an excellent investigation, but I cannot recall any action taken during the time when it was an alliance government. But I may be wrong – Nina might know something. What happened in 2014 – 2018? As an environmentalist, I would have liked it to have happened even more. But I have to say that quite a lot has happened – urban agreements and climate change. All this is used to facilitate what you talked about, Nina Lundström, that it will be easier with public transport and cycling where people live. Changing fuels is not enough. In fact, it is also necessary to change modes of transport. Both are needed. Then I do not think that the state always knows best and that we in Stockholm will decide what to do in different places, but I think it is a point that the municipal politicians together with the residents affirm what people want in Lund, Örebro or Kalmar. Because it looks different, and not all people are the same. For example, we have different climates. So why are you against urban environment agreements and climate change, Nina Lundström?
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-306	Madam President, I would like Yes, we agree on the case. But we do not agree on the way there. From the Liberals' side, we constantly emphasise the importance of creating long-term rules of the game and using economic instruments, where we consider environmental taxes to be a very important element. Instead, we want to reduce taxes on labour. In fact, in the past, the Green Party has expressed the view that this could be a wise principle. I do not see the effects of this in government policy. But we stand up for it and put forward such proposals to show that this is where we create the long-term. There are numerous short-term measures, with a variety of names, which have been taken over the years. The urban environment agreements are also a short-term initiative. Some of them will be effective. But they're short-term. Therefore, in our proposal, we have chosen to present the long-term rules of the game to show what can be done in the long term. There are many previous speakers here today who have also raised the issue of how the actors in society can act if they do not know what the regulatory framework will look like over time. It is about the consumer who wants to be climate smart but who does not know whether or not he or she has bought the right car. It is also about the entrepreneur, the researcher or the venture capitalist who is going to invest. How do we make sure they know what's going on over time? It is crucial for the development of smart biofuels, for creating structures in society and for finding funding. I believe that the Liberals' way of showing direction is long-termism and a shift in taxation between environmental taxes and taxation on labour. On the other hand, I believe that the Green Party is investing in short-term efforts. I would like to hear from Karin Svensson Smith why you do not believe in the long-term rules of the game.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-311	Madam President, I would like Short-term and long-term measures to achieve environmental goals are the environmental party's business idea. That's why I joined that party in 2005. We stand for long-term measures such as the extension of new railways, so that people come on time to their jobs and do not have to use modes of transport that use oil. Expanding the railways is one of the most long-term reforms you can imagine. We should be very grateful that in the 19th century our ancestors built the first main courses. The introduction of legislation requiring those who sell petrol and diesel to reduce the fossil content and increase renewables, so that people who cannot afford to buy a new car can also be involved in the climate transition, is a long-term measure. You could have done so at some point in all the years you were in power. The FFF investigation suggested it, but you didn't do anything. Let's do it. The use of more environmental taxes is excellent. As far as airline taxes are concerned, are the Liberals in on it? All people realize that the use of oil must be more expensive. How else are we going to reach the climate targets? The airline tax is intended to get there. Nina Lundström speaks warmly about shipping. I like that one, too. But when it is very much cheaper to drive long journeys by truck, it is this and so with the overloading to shipping. Why don't the Liberals agree that whoever uses the road, wears it down and uses fossil fuels should pay for it?
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-315	Madam President, I would like It is worth recalling that Karin Svensson Smith also represents the government in this debate. It is also important to remember that very much, including this report, shows things that should have been done something about. I have not been told why the regulations for car pools have not already been changed, as I mentioned in my speech. I would like an answer to that. I would also like to know why the possibility of revising the rules on parking fees is not being used, so that we give the municipalities another tool. I also think it would have been better to think about how we create the regulatory framework so that municipalities, as a public sector, can make it easier for residents and consumers to live locally. There we would have liked to have seen another type of design of possible environmental zones. I also note that, with regard to the cycling strategy, no concrete action has yet been taken at all, and I wonder why. As far as the discussion as taxes are concerned, I say that we are in favour of environmental taxes. But they are supposed to be environmental and not just a revenue for the state. There shall be no environmental effect. We have proposed differentiated take-off and landing charges for flights. We want to see an opportunity to have a mix of fuel and to refuel biofuels and create an infrastructure for it. We also believe that we must take into account the fact that much of our goods are transported on the road. We're a sparsely populated country. That's why we shouldn't tax distances. However, we should have environmental premiums. We must therefore work with instruments in a different way. I note that many of the questions I raise in the debate on the basis of the report still lack answers from Karin Svensson Smith. There I think the government could have done much more. I hope there is some time left to come back with proposals. However, I do not have any answers today, and the debate will continue.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-321	Madam President, I would like We are debating fossil-independent transport and various policy proposals to reduce CO2 emissions from road transport and achieve the goal of a fossil-independent vehicle fleet in 2030. Achieving this objective requires a wide range of measures, including changing transport patterns and more efficient vehicles and more. With political decisions and instruments, we can contribute to more fossil-free transport and secure access to fossil-free fuels to reduce the transport sector's climate impact and a fossil-independent transport sector in 2045. It is about investments in liquid, gaseous and electric fuels in road transport in order to get there. Madam President, I would like Emissions from transport must be reduced in real terms if the target of a fossil-independent vehicle fleet is to be achieved by 2030. The road to a climate-smart society requires long-term investment, with both public and private actors involved in financing a sustainable transition to fossil-free fuels. These are structural investments that are linked, for example, to infrastructure and where the public sector is crucial to making investments happen. It is about investments to reduce emissions with targeted efforts and support for better climate effects. It is about the development of new high-speed rail lines, and it is about investment in inland waterways in order to get more goods transported by both shipping and rail. Increased electrification of the transport sector is important, and also an extension of charging infrastructure for it, to get more people to choose electric cars and hybrids. Madam President, I would like The transport sector accounts for one third of Sweden's total greenhouse gas emissions. A combination of many measures is necessary to reduce emissions from road transport. More and more people choose to travel collectively, cycle or go to work, and more and more people choose electrified roads and transport. More and more people choose to make demands for fossil-independent transport and to make demands for bonuses – malus and access to charging infrastructure and biofuels. These are important measures for a shift to less greenhouse gas emissions and a fossil-independent vehicle fleet in 2030. A switch to renewable fuels is necessary, and the target is for greenhouse gas emissions from road transport to be at least 70% lower by 2030 than 2010. Madam President, I would like Research and effective instruments open up new opportunities for new fuels, infrastructure and electrification that can strengthen Sweden's competitiveness and open up new export opportunities. A majority of committees believe that the government's efforts to reduce the climate impact of the transport sector should be based on socio-economic and environmentally effective measures. This should be taken into account by the government in its work on the climate impact of the transport sector. The Alliance parties believe that the government's efforts to achieve a fossil-independent vehicle fleet by 2030 should also be based on socio-economic and environmentally effective measures. Madam President, I would like The so-called Pumping Act was introduced in 2005 to get more petrol stations to supply renewable fuels. Since the law was introduced, electric cars have gained more and more market shares. At the same time, cars powered by other fuels, such as ethanol, are being competed on the car market. Several car manufacturers have already stopped manufacturing ethanol cars while more and more start manufacturing electric cars and charging hybrids that can go on electricity. However, the lack of charging stations around the country is slowing down the purchase of electric cars. Anyone who is going to buy a new car simply cannot trust that it can be loaded except in a few towns and places, especially in metropolitan areas. In addition, the Pump Act excludes electricity as renewable fuel. In other words, a gas station owner who wants to invest in charging stations must have petrol, diesel and ethanol pumps, for example. The Christian Democrats believe that this creates unnecessary obstacles to an expanded charging infrastructure. We want to see more electric cars in Sweden. This calls for increased capacity for charging electric cars throughout the country, not just in the metropolitan regions. Therefore, we believe that the pump act should be amended in such a way that the exemption for electricity is removed. Madam President, I would like Sales of charging hybrids and electric cars have developed very quickly in recent years. Since 2012, the number of electric cars has increased from around 1,200 to 35,000 today. In order to encourage consumers to buy charging hybrids and electric cars, it is important that the charging infrastructure in Sweden is developed. The major obstacle today to an increase in the proportion of electric cars is the uncertainty that comes with the hitherto poorly developed infrastructure, the so-called reach anxiety. The Christian Democrats invest 125 million extra per year, in addition to the Government's investment, in the expansion of charging infrastructure, to stimulate development in this area and increase the number of purchases of electric cars. In this context, we also believe that it is important for Sweden to pursue the issue of a common charging standard for electric cars within the EU, in order to make it easier for consumers to buy electric cars. Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that the technology for electric roads has developed strongly in recent years and that it is now so mature that it can be demonstrated. In 2016, Sweden opened the world's first electric road, on the E16 between Sandviken and Kungsgården. And in April 2018, E-road Arlanda was also inaugurated, which is a Swedish innovation and the first of its kind in the world. Trucks driven by this technology do not in principle produce greenhouse gas emissions, while noise is almost completely eliminated. We Christian Democrats would like to stress that this type of technological innovation can develop and safeguard all modes of transport while achieving a more sustainable society. Madam President, I would like The use of car pools is an important step in reducing emissions and at the same time increasing mobility and should be stimulated in different ways. It is gratifying that the concept is growing and that more and more people are experiencing the value of sharing rather than owning their own car. They thus contribute to less car traffic and less emissions. Today, unfortunately, there is no legal definition of the concept of car pool. The consequence is that municipalities cannot use certain instruments to promote car pool use, such as creating special parking spaces for car pool cars. We in the Alliance therefore believe that the government should be given the task of developing a legal definition of the concept of car pool, in order to make them more accessible. Madam President, I would like In order to promote the development of a more sustainable transport system, it is important that both the state and the municipality have the opportunity to reward those who make an active choice to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. The alliance parties would like to highlight parking rules as an effective way of influencing the extent to which more environmentally friendly vehicles are chosen when it is time to buy a new car. Since 2011, it is possible for municipalities to reserve charging points and parking spaces for electric cars and charging hybrids. We believe that it should be possible for municipalities to reward cars in car pools or environmental cars in a similar way. We therefore want to give municipalities the right to introduce a system of differentiated parking fees based on the environmental classification of the vehicle, in order to promote the emergence of more environmentally friendly vehicles. The government should review the parking legislation to enable municipalities to set differentiated parking fees for cars in car pools and environmental cars, for example. Madam President, I would like I would like to endorse the Christian Democrats' reservation No 8 and the Alliance's joint reservation No 9.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-340	Madam President, I would like I was listening to your speech, Robert Halef. A lot of what you're saying sounds great. I think it can be a huge success to invest in electric roads. But I thought with one ear I heard that you also want to bet on high-speed rail. The government wants to do the same. And it is a construction that will lead to a great barrier effect throughout Sweden. There are different ways to build high-speed rail. In Sweden we build by tradition railway on land. From what I understand from Trafikverket, there will be no difference now. Perhaps a concrete plate, called slab track, will be cast on which the trains run. My question is about how to afford to build high-speed rail and at the same time to invest in innovative solutions such as electric roads. While I still have the opportunity to ask questions, I would also like to ask you if you have any idea of the type of electric road that interests the Christian Democrats.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-345	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the questions, Jimmy! I only two minutes to answer, and you asked five different questions that could be discussed for several hours. In the case of high-speed rail, the Christian Democrats propose high-speed trains that will run at 320 kilometres an hour. We believe, and the facts say, that today's main roads cannot even cope with today's traffic, whether passenger or freight traffic. Therefore, we also need to upgrade the railways in Sweden for future challenges, to get more people to choose to ride trains instead of flying and to create larger labour market regions so that people can live and work in different parts of the country and get shorter trips and so on. What technology the new main roads will be built on – concrete or using other technologies – we leave to those who know these questions, such as the Swedish Transport Administration, to decide on in procurements with those who will build the new railway. As I said, it is essential for us to be able to meet future challenges. And both business and passenger transport are calling for this. How is this to be financed? You can do it in different ways. It can be financed partly through grants, partly through loan financing and partly through the sale of certain state-owned companies. There are various variations in how to finance a 320 km/h high-speed railway. The answer to this question is perfectly clear. The present railway has served us for 150 years. It can't handle today's traffic. We politicians need to make courageous decisions that will serve Sweden well even 150 years ahead.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-350	Madam President, I would like I agree with Robert Halef on the criticism of existing railways. It is disastrous and, as I said in my speech earlier, it is getting worse. The government has spent a budget of 40 billion to rebuild the railways, which I think is great. We need to expand more rail – I fully agree there. What interests me a little when it comes to the high-speed railway effort of 320 kilometres per hour is that the government has a proposal for a high-cost ceiling of 205 billion to build the high-speed railway. Now they have other building rules, but we know that with Chinese technology we could have built this whole distance for 5 to 7 years. We would have had to rethink and redo and do the right thing, but building it so quickly could be cost-effective. I have a question for Robert Halef: what will a high-speed railway cost? I can imagine that 205 billion is definitely not enough. The tracks may end a bit below Jönköping if you have pulled the rest of the route to Gothenburg. How much does a high-speed railway cost? It will not stop at 205 billion, but may stop at 500 billion. Then we have no money for anything else. It's a cuckoo.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-355	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jimmy, for the question! I'm not gonna speculate. We Christian Democrats are basing our decision on the Swedish Transport Administration's investigation and the investigation of Sweden's negotiations or the construction of Sweden on this issue. There are two proposals to consider today. One proposal includes the price cap set by the Social Democrats with 200 billion. According to this proposal, it should be completed by 2045. The previous proposal in Trafikverket's investigation says that it should be possible to build this for 200 – 230 billion to 2035. We do not put a price cap like that. We don't see about this. I assume that the Swedish Transport Administration's investigation is the most credible one in this case. As I said, you can have different financing models and use loan financing while using grant financing and selling some state-owned companies. We do not point out any, but we want to look at which ones might be sold in order to finance high-speed trains. When it comes to investments in existing rail – both new investments and maintenance – we in the Christian Democrats invest as much as the government does. There's no difference. This new investment in high-speed trains should not crowd out other investments and take funds from rail, shipping or anything else. The idea is that high-speed trains should serve us well. This will contribute to high growth and will make travel shorter and more people opt out of aviation. It will also be more environmentally friendly. Freight transport will be able to arrive on time. As we see today, the industry is losing more than 6 billion precisely because freight transport cannot arrive in good time. Furthermore, we cannot even manage the directives from the European Union which say that freight transport should run at 100 kilometres an hour. They're barely 60 kilometers an hour today.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-362	Madam President, I would like With reference to the previous debate in this House, I can say that at least for military defence it will be a major challenge if it is to be fossil-free in 2030. Today we have to deal with the Defence Committee's report No 6, which deals with military issues – nothing about fossil freedom. This, Madam President, is a motion report. The proposals come in part and part, and they relate both to what is high and what is low. However, there are some issues that require some attention. There is a proposal on the committee's part to announce that the Swedish Armed Forces and no other authority should manage and maintain their own equipment and thus also be given a mandate for procurements concerning maintenance. There are several reasons for this, as suggested by the logistics investigation for higher defence preparedness nearly a year and a half ago. The fact is that if a unit manager in the Swedish Armed Forces does not know where he has his or the unit's equipment, does not know where vehicles or weapons are and does not know in what condition the equipment is, it is very difficult to maintain the readiness that the government recommends. It will also be very difficult, Madam President, to mobilise military units when there is no order in the organisation of equipment. I do not think there is anyone who has a stronger incentive to keep their equipment in order than a head of unit. It is he who is ultimately responsible for the functioning of equipment and personnel and for the ability of the unit to fight. It is also the case that the current system, in which the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration manages the maintenance of the Swedish Armed Forces' equipment, has led to an extensive administrative merry-go-round. First, the Swedish Armed Forces place a basic order for maintenance at the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration. The Swedish Defence Materiel Administration will then return to the Swedish Armed Forces and its workshops and order this maintenance. The Swedish Armed Forces' workshops then carry out maintenance and will then invoice FMV, which will ultimately send an invoice to the Swedish Armed Forces. This, Madam President, is not the responsible management of taxpayers' money. The good thing about transferring responsibility for maintenance to the Swedish Armed Forces is that we get a much clearer division of responsibilities. The Swedish Armed Forces are not only responsible for the personnel, but also for the material, and it will be easier from a parliamentary point of view to demand responsibility if it does not work. Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats and the Left Party have reservations about the committee's proposal for an announcement on this point. It is with the greatest interest that I should like to hear the factual arguments for this reservation. There is also another announcement, which concerns a moratorium on training and shooting fields. After too long a phase of decommissioning, military – and indeed civil – defence is now in a phase of development. Just a few months ago, we have done something entirely historical: we have established a military regiment in Sweden for the first time since the mid-70s, namely on Gotland. It will be inaugurated in the middle of May. I visited Gotland only a few days ago. I dare to say that if, at the closure of the P 18 in 2004, we had also closed the training and shooting field, we would never have had the opportunity to come back. This is the case with many of the large installations that our total defence has had over the years – if they once disappear, we will have neither the planned nor the financial means to recreate them. Right now, as we speak, one of northern Europe's largest population protection rooms on Södermalm is being converted into a bus terminal. There is no way, Madam President, to recreate what has been lost. In view of the fact that we are in this development phase, a majority in the committee is now proposing to introduce a moratorium on exercise and shooting fields: no training and shooting fields should be dismantled until further notice. Madam President, I would like In a few months' time, this summer, the Major General and Home Secretary Roland Ekenberg will leave their position. He has reason to be proud of what he has accomplished and of the transformation that the Home Guard has undergone. The Home Guard currently accounts for about 40% of the Swedish war organization, and it is financed by a few percentages of the total defence budget. The average age of the Home Guard is just under 40 years, and in the intervention companies the average age is ten years lower. A few years ago, it was the Home Guard who showed the way by introducing their war unit exercises – an activity that has now also spread to the rest of the defense. But there are clouds of anxiety in the sky. A reorganisation is currently under way in the Swedish Armed Forces' management. This reorganization risks moving the Home Guard down a hole in the military hierarchy, and then it simply gets a more unclear position. The future head of the Home Guard can look forward to not one but several superior managers with whom he must coordinate. Madam President, I would like This is the background to the Alliance's suggestion that the Home Guard should become a separate and independent arm of defense. Only so do we believe that the Home Guard can continue to develop in a positive direction. With this, Madam President, I am in favour of reservation 6.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-376	Madam President, I would like In today's report, we are dealing with the committee's motion requests from the general exercise period 2017 – 2018. The Mots address, among other things, issues of military defence. The committee's proposals include the Swedish Armed Forces' basic organisation, the Home Guard, exercise activities, voluntary organisations and wind power. Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the reservations of the Social Democrats 10 and 16 and for the rejection of other reservations. Regarding the point of moratorium on exercise and shooting fields and our reservation 10, we Social Democrats agree with the motionaries in motion 2017/ 18:3220, motion 16, on the importance of ensuring access to shooting fields and exercise areas. With regard to the possibilities for expanding defence operations and ensuring access to shooting fields and training areas in a deteriorating security situation, we can see that there is already a possibility of exceptions for deviations from the environmental code. We assume that this can be used to make it possible to implement decisions to increase the military capability of the units and that it will be used by the government to the extent deemed necessary. We also consider that the purpose of this is to increase the long-term capacity for war and to strengthen defence preparedness in the circumstances indicated. Against this background, we do not see any need to take further action at this stage. Madam President, I would like Regarding the announcement in the point on procurement issues and our reservation 16, we Social Democrats believe that there is, in all material respects, a broad consensus on the conclusions drawn in the Logistics for higher defence preparedness investigation, which is also endorsed by the Government in the 2018 Budget Bill. At the same time, the Government has concluded that there needs to be an in-depth analysis of certain issues relating to how the responsibility for procurement and maintenance of the Swedish Armed Forces' equipment is shared between the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration. Ensuring a functioning equipment and logistics supply of military units is one of the highest priority actions to increase the Swedish Armed Forces' operational capabilities. Madam President, I would like The Government stated in the 2018 Budget Bill that the prerequisites for a change in the division of responsibilities need to be further analysed, including in terms of coordination, legal aspects, relationships with the supply chain, commercialism and competence provision. The committee was informed last week by Secretary of State Jan Salestrand on this issue, and he pointed out that the requirement for an in-depth analysis was based on the requirements of the government form of preparation, which is a requirement that the government is obliged to comply with. Following the announcement by the Riksdag in connection with the 2018 Budget Bill, the Government has indicated in letter No 75 that the Government intends to return to the Riksdag after the final review. Madam President, I would like According to the government, the natural occasion for such feedback is the budget bill for 2019. The Riksdag has thus been informed that the Government is aware of the announcement in connection with the 2018 Budget Bill and that the Government intends to return to the Riksdag for this reason. The departmental spromemoria developed by an investigator to highlight these aspects is still subject to consultation. Once the referral has been received, an analysis of the referrals is required. Madam President, I would like The supply of goods and logistics has undergone a series of reforms over the past 10 to 15 years. I and the government parties feel a great responsibility to ensure that the reform that is now being carried out works in practice, in all security policy situations, and that it becomes a long-term, legally secure and effective solution without unwanted costs. Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats believe that, in view of what I have just stated, the ongoing analysis work of the government should not be pre-empted, but that the government should come back with the results of the analysis and that we in committee should then take a position on this. Allan Widman from the Liberals wanted to know what our attitude was, and that is how we think and feel on the part of the Social Democrats. Madam President, I would like Regarding the Armed Forces Organisation, the Defence Committee reaffirms that it is the Riksdag that decides on the majority of the Armed Forces' basic organisation. On the basis of Parliament's decisions, the Government regulates the organisation of the Swedish Armed Forces in the Authority's instructions. Within the framework of the decision of the Riksdag and the Government regarding the basic organisation, it is the responsibility of the Swedish Armed Forces to determine the structure of the operations. On behalf of the Government, the Swedish Defence Committee has begun its work on developing data as a guide for a new direction of the defence for the period 2021 – 2025. In accordance with the committee's previous positions, the committee does not believe that there is reason to precede the work of the Defence Committee by reviewing individual parts of the basic organisation or organisation of the armed forces decided by the Riksdag. Madam President, I would like On the point of practice, we in the committee attach great importance to what has been said in the orientation decision that military defence needs to be strengthened rapidly. In this context, the committee wishes to stress the importance of exercises, mobilisation planning and mobilisation and preparedness exercises. The focus has been and continues to be that the exercise activities should increase. In the budget bill, the Government reports that the exercise activities are extensive. The committee welcomes the extensive exercise and assumes that the government will continue to work in this way to increase the capacity for war in accordance with the direction indicated by the decision on defence policy. Madam President, I would like Allan Widman spoke well of the Home Guard, and so will I. The committee's image is that the local anchoring and recruitment of the Home Guard units is of great importance for the people's support of the defence. This becomes clear when, on several visits to exercises in different parts of the country, I see what they are doing. Last time I visited the exercise in Uddevalla and the surrounding area, which was also the head of the Home Guard's management exercise. There I also had the opportunity to talk to residents of the area when an information day was arranged at Torps shopping centre in connection with the exercise. There were many appreciative comments about the Home Guard and the voluntary defence organisations' efforts for the Home Guard and for the Swedish Armed Forces. The Home Guard with the national protection forces is not only a major and important part of the army forces, but also, with its high availability, numerary and geographical distribution, has a central importance and contributes in a valuable way to certain guarding tasks and with support for society. Against this background, it is natural for the defence policy decision to stress that progress should be made towards more qualified Home Guard units. The Swedish Armed Forces have submitted proposals to the Government for a new management organisation that proposes, among other things, new organisational units for the combat forces, but proposals for the Home Guard's management structure are missing. This proposal will be submitted during the spring, according to the Swedish Armed Forces. The committee attaches great importance to the fact that the Home Guard continues to develop into increasingly qualified units, but currently considers that there is no reason to take further action because it sees the issue as a central part of the ongoing work of the Defence Committee. Madam President, I would like As in its report National strategy for society's information and cyber security, the Committee stresses the importance of the Swedish Armed Forces developing its ability to defend Sweden against qualified attackers in cyberspace. The government's intention to work for an effective cyber defence with the ability to prevent, detect and manage cyber attacks, both for military and for civilian operations, is very important. The fact that there is coordinated planning between authorities and other actors in the event of a cyber attack or other serious cyber-incident and that activities in need of continuous surveillance and with special needs for protection gain access to a sensor or detection and alert system is also an important prerequisite for a good Swedish information security. As the government expresses that the strategy will be followed, as necessary, by specific missions and other governance measures, we in committee see no reason to take any further action at the moment. Voluntary defence organisations have a very important role to play in total defence, Madam President, and are of great importance to the people. At many meetings in my years in the Committee on Defence, I have listened to how the voluntary defence organisations feel that their skills and opportunities are being exploited. After several years, they now feel that the decisions that have been taken forward show that they are really needed and that they are being listened to. They are therefore in favour of future decisions and that they are also needed in total defence. In the report Resistance – The focus of the total defence and the design of the civil defence 2021-2025, the Defence Committee writes that the voluntary defence organisations have a special opportunity and role to play in enhancing the overall capability of the total defence during future defence decisions. Finally, Madam President, it concerns the Armed Forces Centre for the implementation of gender perspectives in military operations. I can say that I am amazed at the views of the Swedish democrats on the implementation of gender perspectives in military operations. I quote the position of the Swedish Democrats: our view is that the Swedish Armed Forces Centre for the implementation of gender perspectives in military operations should be dismantled. All soldiers will receive training in local customs and gender roles in the country where they are to serve. We believe that the Centre should be dismantled because the competence is not needed to carry out the service. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like I would like to make it clear that the Social Democrats and the committee stand by their previous assessment that the ability to fulfil the fundamental human rights of women and girls is both an obligation within the framework of international commitments and a prerequisite for Sweden's broader foreign policy objectives of development, democracy, peace and security. Sexual violence in conflicts should be seen as nothing more than a central security threat. We Social Democrats also maintain, together with the committee, that a focus on women's and girls' involvement and empowerment is a central part of peace and security-building activities and stresses that women's participation increases the chance of a sustainable peace. I would also like to emphasise the importance of working with a holistic approach that focuses implementation on Sweden's national activities and work in the partner countries, regionally and internationally. The Nordic Centre for Gender in Military Operations, NCGM, will be the leader in training on gender issues of military personnel to be deployed in the field. We therefore welcome the work of the Social Democrats and the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and the work of the NCGM, and consider it to be an important contribution in the long run to creating the conditions for sustainable peace. However, this picture does not share the Swedish Democrats, Madam President.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-400	Madam President, I would like It is quite obvious that the government should respect the requirements of the government form for preparation documents before making decisions. However, for a year and a half there has been a very solid basis for decision, under the direction of Ingemar Wahlberg, the former head of the office of the Defence Committee. Last spring I was very early out asking questions to the Minister for Defence about whether the proposals were good or not, and he stated in the speaker's chair that they were good proposals. I had no reason to believe anything but that they would be implemented. Paula Holmqvist has now explained what the Social Democrats think, but the question I asked from the pulpit was what factual arguments – not formal but arguments on the substance – are cited to vote against this announcement, on which, at the same time, Paula Holmqvist claims to agree in essence. Responsive has come in. Like Ingemar Wahlberg's investigation, the most important consultation body, the Swedish Financial Control Agency, proposes that the maintenance responsibility be transferred to the Swedish Armed Forces, and I have lined up four different arguments for implementing this. Now I would like to ask again the question to Paula Holmqvist and the majority: What arguments in substance are you arguing against the Swedish Armed Forces keeping track of their own equipment?
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-403	Madam President, I would like Allan Widman and the Liberals have put forward what arguments are important, and, as I said in my speech, the Social Democrats largely agree with the arguments. However, we still want to wait for the analysis and the response that will be delivered to committee before we take any further position. In these years, it has used to be that the Alliance has proposed announcements that have not waited for results, and we want to keep waiting. Hopefully in the near future – this spring – we will have a proposal. There will be a result.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-404	Madam President, I would like When the government decided this autumn to set up another investigation, it was for one reason only, and that is that it was not satisfied with the conclusions of the first one. It is quite obvious to me that the government, the Ministry of Defence and the political leadership are now working to gain time and eventually crawl out of the proposals made by Ingemar Wahlberg. As a result, the Swedish Armed Forces will not have any control over their uniting equipment in the future, but the responsibility will lie with another authority. If I am going to speculate on the reason why there is such great resistance to allowing the Armed Forces to take care of their equipment, Madam President, it is probably that the Authority, when it gets its equipment under control, will impose higher demands on maintenance and maintenance. This, of course, will lead to higher costs. But this is true in the year of uncertainty 2018: Preparedness costs money – and must cost money. That is why I am convinced that the only sensible proposal is for the Authority to keep track of its own equipment. I understand that I will not get any counter-arguments on the substance from the Social Democrats.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-407	Madam President, I would like I agree with Allan Widman: There is a lot that needs to be done, and it takes time and costs money to increase our operational capabilities. We have for many years, both when the Alliance has been in government and when we have ruled, dismantled the defence. It must be built up, and it is not done in a hurry. It takes time and will cost money. Working based on assumptions and drawing conclusions from what makes the government think so or do so must stand for Allan Widman. We insist that we want to wait for the analysis and take a position on it at a later date.
i-3AtCbNtrDC9fPwzh3d9HtW	Madam President, I would like We are debating the Committee on Defence's motion for a resolution on military issues. I would like to begin by calling for reservation 6 in paragraph 4 and for reservation 17 in paragraph 14. For those of us who work politically on defence issues, the direction and basis of all decisions should always be to have the overall aim as the guiding principle. The overall aim is to best strengthen the Swedish defence. Our military defence capabilities are determined by many different factors. It is determined by the resources provided and how to use existing resources. There are material or human resources in the wrong place or if they are not used in the best way, it does not help to provide more resources. Logistics, strategy and planning are A and 0. Our defence is today effective in terms of results and we get a lot of business for the money. The defence has, as a large part of the rest of Sweden, made a success journey in terms of efficiency efficiency. That is something we should be proud of, and it is something that has been highlighted in NATO, among other things. Swedish defence is thus a role model. But development needs to be continued and strengthened. We have been clear from a moderate point of view that resources for defence need to be further strengthened from today's approximately 1% of GDP to a 2% target. It is an important and necessary priority of the Reich's budget on the basis of today's security policy environment. Swedish defence is the insurance for living in a democracy on our territory with our laws and values. It's an insurance policy we need to pay for. Based on the way in which today's resources are used, further reinforcement will in a good way strengthen our defence capabilities. It is also necessary if we are to be able to count on support from other countries in the event of an armed conflict. There are clear signals from the NATO countries that a 2% commitment to their own defence is the level at which we should be able to count on the support of others. No country's population wants to set aside tax resources to finance other countries' defences, which is quite obvious. A large part of our soldiers are made up of our Home Guard. It is a defense with local anchoring and high competence. The Home Guard is part of our defense that in recent years has gone from clarity to clarity. It is part of our defense that succeeds well in recruiting and retaining soldiers. Home Guard is part of our defense that consists of high competence and many different competences. It is part of our defence that we must protect and further strengthen in every way. Madam President, I would like But the Home Guard is also part of our defense, which in today's organization is divided between the various organizations. It needs better conditions for its operations. We therefore believe that the Home Guard should be given the status of its own weapons team. The Home Guard has in recent years made a successful journey from a history of having had old equipment and a high middle age of their soldiers. It has developed into a modern home guard with a reduced middle age, modern equipment and a broader recruitment – a sharper home guard simply. A status as an organisation like the rest of the defense would further strengthen the Home Guard and provide better planning conditions. Furthermore, it would provide better conditions for adapting to existing tasks, and it would give more opportunity to cooperate with other parts of the Swedish Armed Forces. This could address the specific challenges that exist in the organisation, such as the validation of existing competences and how best to use them. Madam President, I would like The Home Guard has a unique opportunity to create long-term human resources and further enhance its attractiveness. In order for our armed forces to be fast and powerful, the ability to control their own handling of materials is crucial. Being able to procure goods and services, especially of a consumption nature, uncomplicated and fast enough, is often crucial for the performance of the tasks the defence is set to perform. Today's order, that the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration procures and supplies virtually everything, is too complicated and, above all, too slow to handle. Not being able to buy and deliver your simple consumables quickly today creates unnecessary problems. The supply of supplies should be organised in such a way that it best enhances the operational capability of the units. Therefore, the material supply should not be organised on the basis that the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration owns the issue, but on the basis of how the Swedish Armed Forces' needs can be met in the best way. Madam President, I would like If this means that the Swedish Armed Forces will procure certain articles themselves, then this should happen. We believe that the Armed Forces themselves should decide on the funds allocated to defend the Reich. The Swedish Armed Forces are also obliged to provide as good military defence capabilities as the means allow. This means that the entire Swedish Armed Forces as an organisation is organised in a goal-driven way and that everyone in the Swedish Armed Forces can take greater responsibility for their respective activities. We need a defence that more than today can take responsibility for both its training capacity and its capacity in the event of conflict. A defence that does not dispose of its own resources cannot take the necessary responsibility. We also need to be able to make demands from the political side and to know that what we are asking for and providing resources for can also be delivered. That's the only way to secure a strong defense.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-429	Madam President, I would like First, I have a few comments for Allan Widman. I'll catch up there. With regard to the materiel of the armed forces, it goes without saying that the units themselves should decide on it. I have my own experience of it as a battalion commander in the war organization. It was obvious then that you had the responsibility, but then you should also have the opportunity to control and monitor equipment. Almost everyone understands that in here, even if the Social Democrats are not doing so at the moment. That is why, of course, we support this proposal. Everything else would be completely wrong. That's one part. The second part concerns the moratorium on shooting fields and training areas to stop the decommissioning. This was discussed a number of years ago in the Committee on Defence. We have always had the attitude of interrupting the decommissioning of training areas and shooting fields. It is not possible to require the Swedish Armed Forces to retain exercise areas that may allow for an increased number of brigades while giving the Swedish Armed Forces the task of having two brigades and paying rent for many other exercise areas and shooting fields. This will lock a very difficult position if the Swedish Armed Forces want to develop into more units. This is fully in line with what the Swedish Democrats think, and we therefore support this. Then the Social Democrats managed to find one thing on which we disagreed, and it was the Gender Centre. But it is not the case that the Swedish Democrats do not understand the value of training those who will perform different missions in different cultures and in the way they relate to the population. What was done in the past that was so bad? Well, when one came down to a place, such as Saudi Arabia, there were some staff left. They told me everything in place, just like they did in Mali. ♪ Out there in that village it's like this and over there it's like that. They pointed and went through it. It won't take long. You don't have to create a center. I don't know how the end result has been for the gender center. But this is the reason for it. It must not be confused, however, that we would not understand the value of such briefings, but they can be done in a different way. Let me now turn to what I had originally intended to talk about. Today's report deals with several aspects of Swedish defence policy. In this context, it may be worth pointing out that the current government – as well as previous governments – has seriously undermined Sweden's defence capabilities through a strong under-financing of the Swedish Armed Forces, which has closed down large parts of the defence. On this we agree, I think, because we are now talking about strengthening the defence. It is against this background that we in the Swedish Democrats have pointed out several shortcomings in the defence decision taken by the other parties in this House. We believe that the whole of Sweden must be defended. It is a reasonable request from the people of the country that they, wherever they live, can count on the defence force to which they have paid a great deal of tax to also defend them in the areas where they live. I can't do that today. It is claimed that with two brigades – one needs to get more practice – one can defend the whole country. Against what? It is completely unreasonable to think that units will cross Sweden and be able to beat an enemy – face, stop and decide. This is completely unthinkable with small dressings. What attacks a great power with? A battalion? Of course, we can beat one of those. So we need to increase defence appropriations and increase the number of units. What does the Swedish Democrats' vision of a Swedish defence look like? We want seven Army Brigades, three Amphibious Brigades and one City Archery Brigade. We also want so-called distribution units, because we want to return the distribution tables. There are now regional staffs, and they can get the same tasks. They also have distribution units as reinforcement units. That was the case in the past, and it was an excellent solution. This is what we want. There is also, of course, the Navy. In our proposal, it consists of the fleet and the Amphibious Brigades. The Coast Guard is also going to jail there. In the Navy we also bring marine territorial defence units and in some parts local defence units. We believe that more sausages need to be bought. The ones we have are not enough, and they also need to be modernised. Five more sausages in a series should be purchased. And when the surface battleships become large enough, the number of surface battle flotillas also needs to be increased. In our vision of a future defence, we see another mine clearance division as well as another up to five submarines. We have a very long coastline and must have a very strong defence. The government has ordered two new submarines, which is not enough. Air defence is the subject of many discussions and discussions will continue. We know we can't get any depth in the anti-aircraft system with the Patriot system. We know that the Patriot system cannot be applied to our corvettes or warships. We also know that it is extremely expensive. Figures of 25 billion have been mentioned. This could be cut down by removing the robots, or at least by reducing the number. This system must contain secret parts. I don't suppose there's anyone seriously claiming that we should have the old Patriot system. It has a radar that sees 120 degrees. It was knocked out during the Aurora drill, when the robot came from the wrong direction. They tried to keep this secret, but there's been this in the investigations, which aren't secret. The robots are not pushed straight ahead towards the targets; they are driven around. And the radar reads straight ahead. This is bullshit. If it is not the case that we hide this in large counter-purchases with something that is dark, classified or something else, it is completely incomprehensible to us that we do not invest in another system. Why not within the framework of European cooperation, Mr Pesco, which many people are talking about? There, the Swedish defence industry has the opportunity to participate in making a system for Europe. Then the Swedish defence industry would be welcome with its radar, at least it was the last time we talked to the purchasers of this. An Aster robot and CAMM missiles on the warships would provide a depth in our defense capabilities. These are some of the world's best missiles to fight cruise missiles. Why is Sweden just focusing on something else? I will come back to the answers to this later. According to our proposal, the amphibious units should have the support of Archer and Amos, or equivalent, on the fighting boats. It is extremely important, I think. Another issue is the number of fighter planes. In our defence policy, we go up to 200 planes with the E-model in the long term. Let's start with 160 and keep C/ D. Eventually we phase them out and go up to 200 Jas Gripen E. That's what it looks like. This calls for flying flotillas. One suggestion is that we open Söderhamn. Another is Uppsala. The Swedish Armed Forces can tell us where they should be placed. This, however, is our focus. We believe that it is important to see this picture and link it with the fact that, in the long term, it costs quite a lot of money to introduce it. Then we need a supplement. How are we gonna do all this? We have to go up in the volume of military service of 20 000 – 22 000 women and men. Where are they going to be educated? We must also give priority to this. There are a number of places that can receive large and increased volumes today, but the shortage is found among the officers. The big problem we have is the training of officers. How are we going to recruit officers for all this? There's got to be a big pay-as-you-go for those who choose the profession. So, what are we gonna do? Should the Minister go in and rule over the Armed Forces and say: Now you are going to raise wages? No, this is between employers and employees. I understand that, too. But we could add to the special pots available for the teacher's wages. This is an Achilles heel. We must invest in the professional officers by providing special funds for the officers' training. We are, of course, budgeting a lot for this. In the draft budget that we submitted before Christmas, which set out the budget for the next three years, we and the Liberals were quite similar. It separated about 1 billion. How do you others view this? You talk so much. The KD Member is about to speak, but let's talk about NATO. KD spends 540 million more this year... is that spending on the defense? In 2019, they put down 1 billion. Is KD betting on the defense? No. But they'd be happy to see it. I think we need to get to grips with this. Please tell me that we are wrong and that these units are not needed! Maybe that's right. If so, we can reduce our defence capabilities. However, the Swedish Democrats believe that if we are to have a defence, it should be strong and happy to be in alliance with Finland.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-455	Madam President, I would like I said before that I am amazed at the Swedish Democrats' view of the implementation of gender perspectives in military operations. And it has not passed since Roger Richtoff's speech. Roger Richtoff says that it believes that this should be abandoned and that all soldiers should receive training in local customs and gender roles in the country where they are to serve. You believe that the Centre should be dismantled, because the competence is not needed to carry out the service. Then I wonder: What competence is it that is not needed?
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-457	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Paula, for bringing this up again! In that case, I have expressed myself a little unclear. It is not the case that education should only take place in other countries. If I said so, I'd like to correct it. It will also take place in those countries. That's what we used to do. We had a pretty good education in how to relate to the locals and not least to other military units. It was done down there, but we also had training in the regiment before we were going. Two or three days before, we had a number of hours to go through this. Then you didn't need a center. Next time, there will be some other unit that will go from another place. Then it's easy to move the experience from a couple of three officers-- I went there myself and told him my experience. They write down and go through this. So it's both.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-458	Madam President, I would like Then I wonder if the Swedish Democrats and Roger Richtoff have not misunderstood what the Gender Centre is doing and what they are actually doing for our soldiers who are going on foreign missions. These are, of course, the women and girls who are exposed in the countries in which our soldiers are making their contribution, and these are incredible security threats. This is what our soldiers need to be trained in; they should be supported by educational efforts. And that's what the Gender Centre is training in. It is not just about getting information about how it works or what customs there are. You have a different perspective and a different mission. What's Roger Richtoff thinking there? Does Roger Richtoff think it's just information that I'm supposed to be able to receive? Isn't it true that I'm supposed to carry out a mission when I get to the other country?
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-459	Madam President, I would like I can give an example, Paula Holmqvist. Tell him you were coming to Africa for a walk. Then I'll tell you what it's like to get into the refugee camps and what it looks like. Raped women are allowed to crawl to the meat pots after the demined legs are amputated. Maybe they'll get raped on the way. I was going to tell you what it looks like in these situations and what you might do. That is an example. If you were going to Saudi Arabia, I would tell you that you're expected to stand still when it's prayer eutrope– if you don't have a military task to solve; then you're probably not in a shopping mall. You respect this. But when the priest comes with a stick and hits you because he thinks you're wearing tight clothes, tell him to go to hell if you're wearing a military uniform, I'd tell you. That's what they did there. Then the priests were removed, for they could not keep them. Some things I'd tell you about. You're not backing a millimeter. Female officers drove a car. Don't get out of the car because it says someone and tells you you can't drive! Tell them to fuck off! That's what I'd tell you if you went there.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-461	Madam President, I would like Last Saturday I visited Villingsberg's shooting field, where I once learned to shoot French pieces under the leadership of artillery regiment 9 and learned combat technique. This time it was the Värmland battalion that had a big exercise, the spring exercise. There were over 300 people on site. It was training in shooting and personal protection. It was combat training, vehicle service and liaison exercises. They blew up some and also trained security matters. It is instructive for us defence policies to be out when it is trained. You get to be in the terrain and meet those who engage voluntarily in our defense. You will hear what the conditions are for the Swedish Home Guard. We do this in many ways. We all contribute in the Committee on Defence to be out and both make contacts and follow the activities. For me, it also means a great deal to see the links with the heating industry and the various people involved in the Home Guard in order to protect and defend our country. The starting point is the will to defend and support the people. The commitment is strong. It's really important. This is contagious and drags more people along the way. The Home Guard has a lot of strengths and skills, but is also faced with a lot of challenges. The tasks and tasks should be solved. The cancellation period should also be able to be completed. The matter is borderline. We see that there needs to be more resources, not least as regards kitchen equipment and kitchen kitchens. There should be one of these per company. The Värmland Battalion has four companies, but for the entire battalion only has one working kitchen that will last when all 600 people are present. This is one of many examples of material challenges in our Swedish defence. You need dark equipment and management systems to work. There were new radios, but they moved and are now used in other parts of the Swedish Armed Forces; there were re-priorities. The vehicles need to be shielded, and more mortars are needed. There are still three years after the defence agreement there are major challenges when it comes to medical supplies; these conditions must be comparable throughout the Swedish Armed Forces but also with the rest of society. The picture I got with me was that developments in the material field had slowed down somewhat after the autumn's big exercise. The Home Guard may not always be a priority in these contexts. The Home Guard is an indispensable resource that accounts for 40% of Sweden's armed defence. There is a high level of accessibility, good local knowledge and also a high level of competence. There is a reason why we alliance parties propose that the Home Guard's management structure should be organised as its own combat force: we want the Home Guard to be prioritised and that it should be clear what applies in the planning of operations. One area is to be given more responsibility for the financial resources available. Home Guard Battalions and ‐ companies should also have a budget line to manage, plan and invest from outside, so that they know that that money is available for each operational and financial year. That is not the case today. Now the resources are linked to the unit under the Home Guard Battalion. One of our arguments is that this can have a practical impact on increasing commitment and cost awareness and getting as much as possible in defence capabilities based on organisation. This is important, and this is something that we will continue to drive, because we see that it is also important to increase engagement, attractiveness and staffing in the home guard. We're now going to expand the total defense. We need as much activity as possible for the resources we have at our disposal. There are deficiencies in logistics and planning conditions, and there is much more to be done. For example, the Home Guard should not have to stand back and become a priority when resources are shrinking. During this term of office, the Center Party has been involved in negotiating three defence agreements with the government and other parties. We see that there is a need for additional funds in the near future, but also for the next defence-oriented decision for the years 2021 – 2025. The work of the defence committee is in full swing, and we are currently in the military situation. We are inventorying and discussing, and we will discuss even more how to rig this for the next round of decisions. We need a developed dressing structure. We need military resources that can handle the military capability gap. For the Center Party, we agree to at least reach the Nordic average and add at least 18 billion on average per year, which for the day corresponds. These are significant resources that we believe are needed. We also support a long-term goal of 2 percent when it comes to Swedish defence. At the same time, we already have practice fields and areas. It is abandoned regimental areas around this country that have tremendous value when we analyse what needs to be done forward. We need to make the best possible inventory of those resources. All are discontinued investments that are made to develop the unit structure and allow it to grow in the next defense decision. The debate in Swedish defence policy is moving in that direction, and we need to go further in the near future. It also needs to be put into practice in order to use our tax resources more effectively and in the long term. All the investments made that are now out there and not being used need to be taken care of and used in the best way. Some examples of locations around the country where the existing infrastructure is located are Sollefteå and Östersund, and also in Arvidsjaur there is much that can be used in the near future and also dimensioned. There are more places that we need to visit and also inventory and investigate. Today, Parliament makes two important announcements in the report. Access to training and shooting fields is a part, and the introduction of a moratorium is important. We need to increase military activity and also ensure that training activities can be developed. Another announcement is about procurement. We support the implementation of the proposals made by the investigation. It is about the proposals to transfer the logistics supply to the Swedish Armed Forces. The acquisition must work, and the operational needs must govern the organisation's appearance. The lack of control over materials limits the Swedish Armed Forces and the overall commander-in-chief's ability to prioritise how the materials should be used. It is also about how we can be prepared. Sweden has a deteriorating security situation. We need to strengthen the will for defence and peoples. Voluntary organisations are an extremely important part of this. I would like to endorse Amendment No 13 on the basis of the motion that I and Per Åsling have written. It is about taking advantage of and strengthening the commitment and also the cooperation between the Swedish Armed Forces and hunters and sportsmen. Many sportsmen are already organized. But we see that much more needs to be done. One example is in dynamic shooting. Among other things, they collaborate in Jämtland with the Swedish Defence Educators in order to get more people involved in cooperation with the Swedish Armed Forces. It is about taking advantage of the skills available and also strengthening total defence capabilities. Engagement is extremely important, and local knowledge in this context too is something that helps to develop our ability. Madam President, I would like That is a lot of important questions. There are other issues that we could highlight in the debate and which will certainly also be highlighted. The work now under way in the Defence Committee's mandate in the coming year will be extremely guiding for the decisions that need to be taken here in the Riksdag on military developments in the near future. The situation in the outside world justifies this, and our responsibility is great for how we will manage both the mission and the resources for the work. Then I can only note something from a previous speech by the Swedish Democrat Roger Richtoff in this House. A figure of 20,000 to 22 000 needed training was mentioned. But when I read the motion from the Swedish Democrats, it says 10 300 a year. It is an example of when information is not in the documents and has also been proposed. It is possible to double, but it is not appropriate in this context.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-478	Madam President, I would like I don't remember saying that, but I'm in favour of reservations 12 and 1. There was talk of 10,300. That's correct. That's what I said in the speech, and you can hear it if you play it afterwards. We have a vision for how to develop the Swedish Armed Forces. The 20,000 - 22 000 fit the brigade structure I sketched in the speaker's chair. But we're not there now. I forgot to tell you that. We cannot use 20,000 – 22,000. It's done. You can't have that many. In the long term, when we get the units, we have to go up to this. But now we think that 10 300 are appropriate for turning into civilians when we introduce the civil duty of civil protection and other things and the units, such as the Home Guards, which we both care about. That'll take about 10,000. I have a question. It's good that I can ask questions. That's the intention here, isn't it? The Center says you want to strengthen the defense, and that's good. Then explain to us in here: Why are you drawing down your budget that you presented before Christmas with 300 million dollars on the defense this year?
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-482	Madam President, I would like I got a question from Roger Richtoff. I will repeat from previous debates that we have had in here where the issue has come up. We support the defence decision that we have been involved in negotiating and financing it in our budget as well. In addition, when it comes to military defence and operations for 2019 and 2020, we have called for an additional 1.1 billion per year. Roger Richtoff has come to a conclusion from the whole budget but not from the military part. We fully support and finance the decision taken by the Riksdag. We have prepared additional negotiations on 2017, when we adopted the supplementary budget last year, and also for the 2018 budget. There are additional funds of SEK 2.7 billion, a significant part of which is for the military. It is also important money to strengthen total defence planning by 400 million a year. However, when Roger Richtoff has taken the opportunity to have a dialogue on these issues, I would like to ask how the 10 300 and, in the long term, 22 000 will be distributed among the seven army brigades, three amphibious brigades, one city shooting brigade and the division unit. Then Roger Richtoff will be happy to tell you more about the overall budget for it.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-487	Madam President, I would like I'd be happy to answer that. I shall ask for an additional speech, and I will reply to that. I would now like to take this opportunity to ask you the questions. That's how it's usually around here. But I'll be on the questions and ask for extra time for this. I would still like to answer the question about the 10 300. We want to open recruitment offices in Luleå. You don't. You've said no to that before. But we want to do that. When it comes to the distribution of soldiers on units, I will tell you a news story: This is decided by the Swedish Armed Forces on the basis of their needs at the units and in cooperation with the civil defence. It might be good to know. So it is not the politicians here who should sit and distribute it. Perhaps now I do not need any more speaking time. I think I got the answer in there. After all, it is interesting to note one thing. If you relate to the budget put forward by the government, that is fine. But don't say at the same time that you want to increase the defense and strengthen the defense, and then you don't even have the money to cope with the cost of the equipment you're going to buy. It has not been long since the Swedish Armed Forces stood here and talked about: The money is not enough. We have to have more money, or the defense will dive down. The Centres defend themselves with: we are here, but we still want to increase the defence budget and strengthen the defence. But the money we don't run in now, it'll come sometime. It is this policy that is difficult to understand. You are going down this year, and you are increasing by 1 billion in 2019 and 1 billion in 2020. That's what you said before Christmas. Now it's election year, and then the budget race will probably start again.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-492	Madam President, I would like In September, the General Assembly of the Center Party decided that our goal for the next defense decision is the Nordic average. It depends on how the other Nordic countries develop the resources for their military defences. It was September. Then we are behind and have also actively negotiated defence arrangements in 2018, 2019 and 2020. This is the complement to the 2015 decision. It's very important money. Without those supplements, it would have been even worse. We also see that the ability gap is at risk of increasing after 2020. It is therefore extremely important to come up with constructive deliberations and concrete proposals that give priority to resources and money. Tom's rhetoric will not give the Swedish Armed Forces a crown; it is about sitting at the negotiating table and contributing until you reach an agreement. The Center Party has done so on these three occasions, and we will be prepared to do so also for future defence decisions. It is five years that are extremely important. Add to this the perspective study's horizon in 2035, with large material investigation needs and material needs, logistics changes and so on that will require even more resources – large resources. We also have cost-effectiveness in our eyes; we will use each crown as well as possible from a whole-country perspective. The dressing structure also needs to be built now, starting in the near future. It is interesting, Roger Richtoff, that it is not possible to describe how the 10 300 so clearly defined should be distributed. It might as well have been 10 400 or 10 500 based on an assumption from the Swedish Democrats. This figure should have been arrived at somewhere instead of referring to the fact that it is the task of the Swedish Armed Forces to distribute it, which I think is extremely important. The Swedish democrats will have to come back with answers to the question.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-497	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the Committee on Defence's report FÖU6 on military issues, which deals with a series of motions from the general period of exercise. The Left Party shares the view in the defence policy orientation decision that the single most important thing during the defence orientation period 2016 – 2020 is to increase the operational capability of the military units and to ensure the overall capability of the total defence. However, it is important to have a broad view of the security policy threats we face, as the report also points out. It must also cover various forms of disasters, cyber attacks, pandemics and terrorism, that is not just military armed attacks. The committee stresses that threats to peace and security are best avoided in the Community and in cooperation with other countries. The Left Party would like to stress that in the community with others, it should not be synonymous with NATO. We believe that Sweden should stand up for the military alliance freedom in earnest and stop any rapprochement with NATO, which only helps to undermine the credibility of our military alliance freedom. On the other hand, we would like to see cooperation with other countries, especially our Nordic neighbours and, in particular, Finland. In December, the Defence Committee released its first interim report on civil defence, Resistance – the focus of total defence and the design of civil defence in 2021 – 2025. It describes how civil defence needs to be strengthened in virtually all civilian areas. The Left Party is behind the main thrust of the report, although we do not share the security policy analysis. Several of the motions deal with issues that have bearing on the defense committee's continued work on military defence. One such question is the role of the Home Guard. The Left Party believes that the Home Guard plays a very important role in the total defense, including by the home Guard being well represented throughout the country and having good local knowledge and anchoring. Home Guard is also very cost-effective. For the Left Party, it is therefore obvious that the Home Guard will develop and get new, more qualified tasks. However, we should not precede the work of the Defence Committee on this issue. The report addresses the importance of voluntary organisations in total defence. The Left Party fully supports the wording that NGOs have an important role to play and that it is important to seize the skills and also to strengthen these organisations. Madam President, I would like There are two proposals for announcements in the report which the Left Party does not support. The first concerns logistics within the Swedish Armed Forces. We agree that there are major problems with logistics today. Access to materials and supplies and maintenance of materials are, of course, central to military capabilities. Against this background, it is important that the Commander-in-Chief has control over what material is available and how it should be used. I agree that there is much in the proposals in the logistics report for higher defence preparedness that responsibility for maintenance of materials and related procurement should be transferred to the Armed Forces. However, this is a very complex issue. We therefore want to await the Government's work on an in-depth analysis of how the responsibility for procurement and maintenance of the Armed Forces' equipment is divided between the Armed Forces and the Defence Materiel Administration. I think it is important that we have all the information on the table before we take decisions on such an important issue. That's why we've reserved. With regard to the announcement on ensuring access to shooting fields and training areas, we believe that there is no need to take further action but that these are already well served today. Madam President, I would like I share Paula Holmqvist's dismay that the Swedish Democrats want to dismantle the Swedish Armed Forces' Centre for the implementation of gender perspectives in military operations. I think it clearly shows that the Swedish Democrats are a party that does not stand up for women's rights and gender equality when it really applies. They have not understood that violence against women is a major threat to security policy, which we must take very seriously. Madam President, I would like Climate change is a fact that affects everyone. We must stop dependence on fossil fuels if we want to save our planet. Investing in renewable electricity generation is absolutely necessary to achieve the goal of an ecologically sustainable society, and it is becoming a matter of urgency. The Left Party wants to see a sustainable energy supply that is capable of meeting both climate challenges and security of supply. With investments in renewable energy, efficient technology and energy efficiency, we want to switch Sweden to sustainable energy production. Today, the Swedish Armed Forces can put a stop to planned construction of offshore wind power if they feel that they are interfering with what they use as a military exercise area. I believe that it must be perfectly possible to both expand offshore wind power where the conditions are at their best and provide the Armed Forces with reasonable conditions for exercise activities. When conflicts arise that put an end to important renewable energy expansions, the government must take responsibility for finding a forward-looking solution, for example in the case of the large offshore wind power project Blekinge Offshore, which has now been stopped with reference to the defence's national interests. A gigantic project that would have created hundreds of new jobs and that has been planned for several years is now being closed down – to great disappointment for the municipalities concerned. I believe that the government should give the Swedish Armed Forces a mandate to return with a basis for how the exercise activities can be organised without being an obstacle for Blekinge Offshore to build wind turbines and without the Swedish Armed Forces being adversely affected in the long term. This obviously also applies to other future offshore wind projects. The Left Party believes that there should be a review of the whole adjutants system, covering both funding and function. An adjutant at the Swedish court is an officer who assists a royal person in service, i.e. participates when the Royal's program is carried out. An adjutant can be briefly described as a hub for anyone who wants to talk to or inform the royal person as well as a link between the court, embassies, police, organizers and the royal person when travelling, especially abroad. Today, the Swedish Armed Forces are responsible for salaries and compensation to the Adjutants. The Left Party does not believe that the cost of Adjutants serving at the Court should be borne by the Swedish Armed Forces or any other government authority. A review of the whole adjutant system should therefore be carried out, covering both financing and functioning. With this, I support our Amendment No 20. Of course, I also support our joint reservations Nos 16 and 10 and our other reservations.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-515	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the FU6 report by the Committee on Defence, which deals with military issues. I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 6 at once. This report addresses a number of important issues relating to the organisation and exercise activities of the Armed Forces and the specific issues relating to the fields of exercise. I come back to the announcements, but I would like to start by reminding you that we adopted a report in the Defence Committee before Christmas stating that an attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. Seven parties agreed on this, and it was in the light of worrying developments. I am thinking in particular of Russia's annexation of Crimea and the war that was simultaneously started in Ukraine and which is still going on during the debate we have today. People die every week. This confirms the image of an aggressive Russia. The armament program that exists continues unabated. That is not to say that an attack is at hand, but the important thing for us is to create such a high threshold that an attack on Sweden will not be an attractive option for Russia in the event of a serious crisis or war in the Baltic Sea region. Our view is that the Swedish Armed Forces are too small to be able to meet the serious security policy situation that prevails now and in the foreseeable future. The Swedish defence should live up to a level of ambition that all parties in the Swedish Defence Committee have pointed out, namely to be able to face an armed attack against Sweden and thus act as a deterrent. The Christian Democrats also believe that Sweden should join NATO. This would contribute to greater stability throughout the region, thereby strengthening both our own security and that of our neighbours. Today there is a situation where the defence has a lack of money, a lack of soldiers, a lack of command and a lack of weapons systems. Sweden currently spends about 1% of GDP on defence, and that is too little. The Christian Democrats want to see a doubling of the defence budget so that we gradually reach the 2% target. It is a level that our neighbours have already reached or are on their way to. Although the money is necessary, this is not enough. There must also be a plan for how to spend them. Therefore, we have written a report, For a safe Sweden, where we present what we want the Swedish Armed Forces to look like in 2030. A little short and rough, the report says the army needs more than double. Today's two brigades need to be five. In addition to this, the battle groups for Stockholm and Gotland will be strengthened. The number of conscripts needs to increase from today's 4 000 to 12 000 per year. The fleet needs to be added to another six battleships in order to operate on both the east and west coast at the same time. In addition, the number of submarines should be increased to a total of eight, so that we can ensure that at least four submarines can be at sea at the same time. The Air Force shall be maintained at least at the current level by approximately 100 aircraft. Instead of scrapping today's JAS Gripen plan, we should keep at least 40 C/ D planes and then build another 60 model E – Erik. It is important that the base organisation of the air force is greatly expanded. There we propose a threefold increase in order to ensure that our air force can be energized to different parts of the country and that aircraft can be distributed in order to avoid exclusion on the ground. For us Christian Democrats, it is about the security that citizens can demand in their daily lives, for the family, in old age, in accidents or in sickness, ultimately depends on the state being able to meet the need for internal and external security. For us Christian Democrats, therefore, Sweden's defence is one of the core tasks of the state. I would also like to comment on the announcements. These include FMV and the Swedish Armed Forces. A majority wants the Riksdag to follow the proposals in the investigation that Ingemar Wahlberg stated a year and a half ago, namely to hand over maintenance to the Swedish Armed Forces. This is linked to the fact that the defence in general and not least the army in particular must keep control of their equipment. An important part of building up defence capabilities is to increase the capacity for war. This is also linked to the second announcement, namely a moratorium on touching the exercise fields. A defence capability consists of the existence of complete units, materiel and exercises. That's why the announcements are so important.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-525	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that I agree with Paula Holmqvist's speech, and I support reservations 10 and 16. Today we are discussing military issues, and the Swedish military has undeniably made a long journey. The transition from an invasion defence to an intervention defence was in many ways reasonable in terms of the security policy situation at the time, but the transition was made in such a way that we now need to recreate and strengthen many of the abilities we have had in the past. The security policy situation requires that we once again have a well-functioning national defence capability. The 2015 Specialisation Bill states that the single most important thing in the coming years is to increase the operational capability of the armed forces and to ensure the overall capability of the total defence. During the current government, the transition has begun. Supplements have been made several times to enhance the ability of the total defense. Among other things, money has been allocated to the cyber defence and psychological defence to meet impact operations, which feels relevant during an election year. The government has also provided money for both equipment and reinforcements on the personnel side. Last week the SOM Institute presented its annual study of Swedes' values and opinions. The study was very positive news for the Swedish Armed Forces. Swedes' confidence in the Swedish Armed Forces increased sharply. In fact, it was the single largest increase that the SOM Institute has measured from one year to another in any authority. Our work from a political point of view, together with the Swedish Armed Forces' solid efforts, strengthens the defence will and thus the credibility of the defence. Now we must also live up to the expectations of the public. Military defence faces several major challenges that need to be addressed. The Swedish Armed Forces' long-term material needs, for example, pointed to the challenges that exist in the material field. The study points out, among other things, that the policy has under-financed the purchase of equipment, which means that costs have been constantly pushed to the future. The investigation also highlights examples of where materials have been purchased for industrial policy reasons rather than defence policy. These are problems that politics needs to address. Whatever the level of ambition you want the Swedish Armed Forces to have, it is reasonable for politics to secure appropriate funding for that level of ambition. At a time when the conversion needs are large and our resources limited, material purchases that benefit individual companies rather than Sweden's defence capabilities are not something that we should prioritise. The development of the military defence in the coming years will be handled primarily within the Defence Committee, which will present its final report in spring 2019. The preparatory work is now in full swing, and I think that all those involved in the work would agree that there is much to be done. Few parts of the Swedish Armed Forces would not want more resources. It's not just about more guns. Equally important are operational logistics and management systems, which have often been down-priorityd during the transition to an intervention defence. In its perspective study, the Swedish Armed Forces sees itself as soon as possible a doubling of the Swedish Armed Forces to 2035. However, our role as politicians is to take into account the overall picture. Every crown that goes to the Swedish Armed Forces is a crown that goes to nothing else. We must ensure that the investments made in defence are effective and reasonable. I dare to promise that tough priorities of the Armed Forces' resources will need to be made in the future, whether we are spending money or which government is running after the elections. This is how politics works – resources are finite. These priorities will be a challenge for the Defence Committee to address in the coming year. However, I am hopeful that we can deal with this jointly. The previous interim report on civil defence brought together a broad majority of parliamentary parties, and my expectation and hope is that politics will be able to maintain the Swedish tradition with broad agreements in the field of defence here too.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-533	Madam President, I would like For time winning, I only ask for reservations 1 and 12. We have seen a change on the part of headquarters as to how to reason on defence tactics. Not long ago, it was said that the peace group could be such that we would move our only brigade– in fact, we have two, but the other is not finished– where an attacker has attacked and that it would be quite trouble-free. I guess that's wishful thinking. Now headquarters says we need to group up so that we can defend ourselves in the region that the enemy has attacked. There are also some things that have now been taken up and discussed seriously, such as that if we are to fight with brigades we must have divisional staff. It shall be established. I think there should be more. Even Brigade's attacks are discussed. It takes quite a lot of support for a brigade to attack, and we don't have that amount of artillery. These are things we have to solve. Distribution distillery is something that could solve this problem. Now they say in the perspective study that Sweden needs more brigades. It is good that it is said by more than just us in the Swedish Democrats and Alternatives for Sweden, who have said it for a long time. When the defence is going to increase in volume as much as we are now discussing, the funding must rise sharply. With the government's 1 billion a year, it takes 60 years to build an invasion defense. What we have said is that we need functioning military capabilities already within a few years and solid military capabilities in 2035. We have had a very low defence grant in Sweden. The defense is underfunded and has many holes, not least on the materiel side. If we are to catch up, the allocation must be substantially increased. I know that the Swedish Democrats and Liberals have made a trend break in their budgets and are spending considerably more than the government. But even that won't be enough. If we are to have a functioning military capability within a few years, we must go up to 2% of GDP within two years and eventually go up to 3%. Then, when the defence is financed in terms of material, it may possibly fall back to 21⁄2 percent. But if we are to have a total defense with the ability to act as a deterrent, we must invest completely different money. Then this is the time to wake up and see it, because it's quite obvious. In view of the volume of defence, we must also make a different geographical division. We believe that Sweden should be divided into eight military regions and that the navy should have more naval bases and marine detachements in Härnösand and Fårösund. We could set that up within five years. As I said, distribution units, both liaison battalions and artillery battalions and transport battalions, are important, because without them the total defence does not work. Probably we need 40 – 50 battalions as a distribution resource or divisional resource. We must protect our command centres by means of fortifications in rock rooms and in other ways and by increasing the spread. In order to increase the number of war airports, Upplands flyraftilla in Uppsala and Hälsinge flyraftilla in Söderhamn should be set up in the near future. We talked about internal security earlier. Then it is important that we have a gendarmerie with heavier weapons and offensive tactics than the regular police in our three largest cities. It should be linked to the total defense. When I was new to Parliament, many people thought that military education was ancient. It wasn't something we needed. Later it has turned out that that is exactly what we need, partly to fill the units in a way that we can afford and partly to bring people into the industry who can then take employment. Now we shall again train military service, but I, who want a greater defence, realise that we must have a higher number trained. Then 10 300 is a good benchmark. There should be even more, but it is not possible at this stage because there is also a need for people who train, i.e. officers who can do this. The number of officers who can lead education increases as we gradually increase the volume of the defense, and with conscript officers increases the opportunity to train more. We believe that the officers' training needs to be changed to meet the needs of the armed forces. After all, we have officers primarily for the needs of the armed forces and not for anything else. That's why we need to change the structure of officer training. I share the views I have heard in the House earlier that we should preserve the shooting fields and not close any more. It would not be good for the function when we expand the defense to phase out the firing field. Fields of fire are important for practice. I think the voluntary movements are very important in order to increase people's support but also to support the Home Guard with many roles that actually come from education within the voluntary movement. We think that the voluntary movements should have a basic grant that they can have for their organisation. The fact that there are project grants when they can show that they support the Home Guard by training staff is also reasonable, but the abolition of the basic grant has meant that the voluntary movements can no longer stick with their own organisation as before. It affects these associations. We think that in uniforms there should be a ban on religious and political symbols. We think it's obvious. The advantages of the uniform are that it is neutral and strengthens the sense of community. It would fall if you introduced your own, individually selected religious and political symbols. Of course, this should not be allowed. There has been much talk about the Gender Centre. Those of us who want to phase out Gendercentrum think that too much resources are being spent on things that are outside the scope of the service. However, we do not think that Swedish soldiers, when we participate in international peace operations, should in any way be involved in something that is disgusting from a perspective of international law. This would, of course, also apply if we were to defend our country. What is important, then, is that the Swedish Armed Forces must comply fully with the laws of the war. It should be focused on – not on gender research or gender studies or on deepening in those areas. That's going too far, and that's the wrong place for that kind of study.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-552	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Defence Committee's report 6 on military issues. I should first like to make it clear that I support the committee's proposal under paragraph 8, the Moratorium on training and shooting fields. Claiming 16 in our alliance motion establishes a very important approach that can be discussed, as access to training and shooting fields of different types is of great importance to ensure the possibility of qualified practice activities. The number of training hours available today is too low, which creates problems when the Swedish Armed Forces need to increase their training activities. Therefore, a moratorium on the decommissioning of existing training and shooting fields is needed. It is satisfying to see that we now have a majority in Parliament who want to support what is stated in the motion and that we can now announce it to the government. But as important as it is for the defense to have practice and shooting fields, it is for our municipalities to have buildable land. In my municipality of Halmstad, if the forecasts come true, we will have to build housing for another 50,000 inhabitants over the next 30 years. It is a population increase of 50% in just 30 years, and the situation is more or less the same throughout Halland. For most Halmstad residents, the presence of the defense is an obvious part of our everyday lives. With around 1,300 employees at the Air Guard Regiment, FMTS and the Military College, almost all have some kind of relationship with the military. Madam President, I would like We live in a troubled time. The security situation in the immediate vicinity of Sweden continues to deteriorate. The threat picture is about traditional military threats as well as increased intelligence activities, misinformation and cyber threats aimed at Sweden. We therefore want to increase resources for the Swedish Armed Forces. Sweden's defence funding will within ten years amount to 2 per cent of GDP, which in the long term means a doubling of today's funding. We also see that Sweden needs a road map for NATO membership. NATO membership is the only defence cooperation that seriously strengthens Sweden's security. Furthermore, we need better emergency preparedness and a total defence that can face all kinds of threats. A good crisis preparedness in peace lays the foundation for a well-functioning total defence in crisis and war. At the same time, we also have a challenge in building housing, especially in a region such as Halland. My firm conviction is that if we are to be successful in increasing our defence capabilities, it must be done in cooperation with civil society. Now let's go back to the shooting fields. With the support of the Environmental Code, the defence has become much more restrictive and has more clearly announced which influence areas you consider to have in connection with their practice and shooting fields. The Swedish Armed Forces themselves describe the influence area in the following way: are areas affected by the environmental impact of the military activity, which is a national interest, reported as influence areas. An influence area is an area in which measures such as new residential buildings may be affected by, or which in turn may affect, activities within the area of national interest. This has quite far-reaching consequences for a fast-growing municipality such as Halmstad. Madam President, I would like I grew up and now live again in Vilshärad, which is directly adjacent to Ringenäs shooting field a few kilometers north of Tylösand. My experience is that for me personally and for other residents in the area it is a matter of course that the defense should practice. My conviction is that most people are probably that way to the defense. The problem is when the environmental code is applied in the area of noise. Then the principle is that if someone complains, one risks that at best the activity must be restricted and, at worst, must stop. Should the Swedish Armed Forces allow new construction within an influence area at a shooting field, and the newly moved person feels that the operation is disturbing, the defence risks that the shooting field must be closed. That the defense has the attitude you have when you run the risk of being forced to close one because the operation absolutely crucial shooting field is quite natural. On the other hand, the consequences of this action are extensive for a fast-growing municipality like Halmstad, especially when it limits housing construction in areas that can be classified as the most attractive we have in our municipality. I do not think that this situation is unique in any way – that is, national interests limit our need to build housing, which many municipalities are in dire need of. Would it not be more reasonable, then, if we could work together to both strengthen our defence capabilities and at the same time allow more housing? I am convinced that the defence could have envisaged new constructions within its areas of influence if it were guaranteed that it would not adversely affect the activities. The problem is that the environmental code does not allow this. It would be desirable instead to allow some form of service for the training activities of the defense. In this way, we could secure both the defence's opportunities to practice and our municipalities' opportunities to build housing. If we are serious about building a strong defence, we must do so together with our municipalities and regions. Then defence becomes a natural part of our everyday lives and is seen as an asset and not a burden because we have rigid legislation.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-565	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to answer some of the questions I received earlier from various Members. As for 10 300, I looked a little more to be able to answer a little better. I don't have those tables with me, but I don't think you're asking, Daniel Bäckström. We sat and calculated this together with representatives of the Home Guard and Defence Headquarters. We looked at the return unit, parallel to the fact that we want to increase civil duty and call them in for duty. It is therefore a question of return to Home Guard units. We wanted to make sure we had enough conscripts. The reason for this is that when you train conscripts, many of them are placed in war but perhaps in their profession are police officers or something else. Where are they going to be put in war? This is often directly because there are so few who do military service. The right to draw, where to place a war, can be solved – not entirely, but one can improve the situation by increasing the number of conscripts. I have those tables, and you're welcome to me, and I'll show you them. As far as the Centre Party's budget is concerned, I can only say that you are spending 1.9 billion. It is your defence effort, which you presented before Christmas, for 2018, 2019 and 2020. Today, you're spending even more money, not on the defense, but on people who don't have the right to be in the country staying here. There we see your priority; it is clear. With regard to the Left Party, I would just like to make it clear that we are definitely protecting women in this country and taking the threat to them very seriously – at least as much as the Left Party will ever do. The other part you mentioned was wind turbines. I can imagine that you mentioned Hanö Bay and that defence interests stand against wind turbines. Let me be very clear: we do not want wind turbines. Stop the expansion – build the new generation of nuclear power plants! That's our focus. Then you might think it's wrong, but that's our focus. Let me be clear about that. With the new generation of nuclear power plants, we can also use the uranium we now have. Well done, it is even better; then perhaps you can get 90 per cent efficiency of it instead of 2 per cent. You can use it instead of burying it in the rock rooms and buying new uranium from Russia. Buying uranium from Russia I have never heard the Left Party protest against. We can use the uranium we have. That is our policy. KD says to go up to 2%. My specific question, then, is: when are you going to start? During the period 2018 – 2020, ahead of the new defence decision, you are investing 4 billion more than the government. Is that the start of the 2% increase? The Moderates have taken a big step for the period 2019– 2020, when you go up with just over 19 billion, if I have the right figures here. In conclusion, I think I have answered the questions and I hope I was clear as well.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-576	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Roger Richtoff, for a somewhat developing answer to the questions asked earlier! It can be said that 10 300 is therefore 4 300 more than was proposed in the study that was presented almost two years ago. This is what the question will be about when the Defence Committee will now work out proposals for training volumes and long-term personnel supply to the Swedish Armed Forces, even from a total defence perspective. The text of the report reproduces the text of the Swedish Democrats' motion. The motion states that all young men and women should be signed on to a place of employment. Earlier in the debate Roger Richtoff expressed that there would be more appointment places, among other things in Luleå. I am open to finding flexible solutions. I also sit with and follow the work of the Transparency Council of the Recruiting Authority. Roger Richtoff, is the text of the report correct, that is to say that one should be signed on to a place of signing up, or are there several places involved? This is perhaps a detail, but the question is quite interesting on the basis of what has been expressed in oral form during this debate. It is important for the development of military issues. Madam President, I would like I would also like to ask once again how the Swedish Democrats intend to allocate the 10 300 to the various brigades that have been presented in previous interventions in the debate. With regard to the Center Party's budget, I can say that we have presented proposals for 2019 and 2020. We are behind the agreements, and we have also added more money, which is of practical importance for 2018, 2019 and 2020.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-581	Madam President, I would like Daniel mixes completely uninteresting things with interesting things. Surely, Daniel and the Center Party do not think that I can present here and now in two minutes the exact distribution of war units? If I could, I wouldn't have done it anyway. It's about people to be signed up and recruited. Then it is the Swedish Armed Forces' needs that will govern. It is the Swedish Armed Forces who have the right to draw the conscripts. That's how it's done. As far as the issue of recruitment places is concerned, we have proposed that we open a recruitment office in Luleå. The Centre Party and the other parties have said no to that. We were there a couple of years ago. Then we asked what was the most important thing that we politicians could do to strengthen there. I think Daniel was there then. Then we got the answer that the most important thing we could do was to open a recruitment office there. That is why we raised a motion on it, to which you voted against it. Now it is becoming a central place linked to the decision on the 4 000. But in our vision for the future, where we increase the military units and open more recruitment offices, there will be more recruitment places.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-584	Madam President, I would like This may seem to be a marginal question, but it is important from the point of view of how you express yourself here and from what you have written. My interpretation of the answer is that Roger Richtoff sees that it should be in Luleå that all recruitment to the Swedish Armed Forces takes place. Is this so, or will the Recruiting Authority continue to operate in Stockholm and Malmö, where they have organized themselves to get more people to join the Swedish Armed Forces? As far as the distribution is concerned, I note that there were very many points that Roger Richtoff raised about how the future Armed Forces should be organised. He spoke of seven army brigades, three amphibian brigades, distribution units, and so on. I am only interested to hear how the Swedish Democrats see the overall picture of how the different parts should be organised and how they intend to recruit for this structure. At the same time, there should be people at the disposal of the Home Guard, who were mentioned in the last post, alongside the military placements. It is the holistic approach that is interesting. In the coming year, we will see how the Swedish Democrats will deliver in words and actions based on the goals they are now painting. We will see this in the forthcoming negotiations after the final report of the Defence Committee. Then it will be interesting to compare back in time and look at the proposals that the Swedish Democrats, a little bit worrisome, may seem, have formulated and put forward in the Swedish parliament.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-587	Madam President, I would like It is interesting to hear from the Center Party, which has destroyed the Swedish defence, eagerly encouraged by the other parties. You have destroyed the systems. It's costing hundreds of billions. Now you have woken up and understood that the Swedish Democrats were right all along. All along we have said that we need a strong defence. We have budgeted and fought for this. Now we agree that we need to strengthen the defense. Then the Center makes cuts in the budget. Daniel Bäckström asks about the overall perspective. I'll try to explain it a little easily in this short time. We're increasing the number of brigades. The number of units must grow. Maybe we're the only ones who think so. But we must increase the number of brigades if we are to defend the whole of Sweden. In parallel, material purchases must be made to the brigades. At the same time, there must be an increased volume of military service in order to staff the units. These three important systems must be linked together. Perhaps the most important part is to get officers, as I mentioned in my speech. Without officers, we can't train the soldiers. Then we can't use the war units. The most important thing today is to get people to the officers' programs. We have to work on that, and so do we. I've just told you how to amplify that part. Perhaps you should simply earmark a substantial amount of money so that it becomes an attractive profession again. It's the same thing you talk about when it comes to teachers and cops. When the new brigades emerge, how will the conscripts be distributed? They shall be distributed according to the needs of the Armed Forces. We think that is the most important thing to prioritise. For example, it is a matter of having an anti-aircraft system that is worth the name. What comes next? Maybe it's the manning of the warships. These are the things you have to discuss with the Swedish Armed Forces.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-592	Madam President, I would like Then we will deal with the Defence Committee's report FÖU12, Riksrevisionen's report on the Swedish Radiation Safety Authority's nuclear supervision. No follow-up motions have been initiated on the basis of the letter. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the Radiation Safety Authority's supervision of nuclear reactors in operation. The overall conclusion of the Swedish National Audit Office is that the supervision should be carried out more effectively by the Authority performing supervision to the extent that the Riksdag has given financial scope and in a more systematic way prioritises the most important supervisory efforts from a safety point of view. The radiation safety authority's appropriations for monitoring and other activities related to nuclear power plants have increased since 2010, but the audit shows that the Authority has not made full use of the funds. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, this means that the authority has not carried out supervision to the extent requested by the Government and the Riksdag. The review also shows that it is unclear whether supervision focuses on the most urgent actions. It has not been included in the review to assess the quality of the enforcement activities carried out or to assess the safety of nuclear power plants. In the letter, the Government presents its assessment of the Swedish National Audit Office's observations and the measures deemed necessary in response to the recommendations given to the Government. With the letter, the Government considers that the review report has been finalised. The committee attaches great importance to the safety of Swedish nuclear power and to the public's confidence in its activities. In this context, it is also important for the public to have confidence in the role of the state in the work for safe nuclear power, as the Swedish National Audit Office also points out in its report. The committee also welcomes the broad development work carried out by the Government and the Radiation Safety Authority on issues related to nuclear supervision, such as the fact that the Government has reviewed the charging so that fees and actual costs of activities related to nuclear power plants can be balanced in order to fully apply the principle of full cost recovery. Madam President, I would like Taking into account that the Government considers that the Radiation Safety Authority is carrying out the oversight that the Government, the Riksdag and the Authority itself deemed necessary, the Committee intends to follow the Government's and the Authority's continued reporting of developments in this area, such as measures to focus supervision on the most important supervisory efforts from a safety point of view. With those words, I am in favour of the committee's proposal: that Parliament should submit letter 2017/ 18:66, the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the Nuclear Safety Authority's nuclear supervision, to the record.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-598	Madam President, I would like We have today to discuss the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the Nuclear Safety Authority's nuclear supervision. One might initially ask why we are discussing this, because the National Audit Office's report did not put forward any proposals to go to Parliament. There are no moves on the matter either. Nevertheless, I think that there are grounds for reflection on this issue. First, one can reflect on the role of the Swedish National Audit Office. In 2003 we received a national audit in Sweden. Sweden was then one of the last countries to receive a national audit that was free from the government, and it was placed under the Riksdag. Of course, it would have been nice if this had come earlier, but we must be grateful today that we have a national audit which is free from the government and which can do a stated objective work. I note that the report submitted by the Swedish National Audit Office makes some criticisms. Some are that the Swedish Radiation Safety Authority has overcharged fees equivalent to SEK 130 million. One might wonder why the government has not reacted to it before. There are two reasons, you might say. The first is perhaps that this has not been known. It has not been known that the Authority has made these over-exploitations. The second reason is perhaps that the overcharges made by the Radiation Safety Authority have not been passed on to the Authority. In fact, it has come to the government's expense. It's gone straight into the state treasury. If you get 130 million straight into the state budget that you can do things for, it may not help to actually react to this relationship. However, for whatever reason, I think it is important that attention be paid to it. Therefore, we should be grateful that we have an independent national audit. The second reflection, as I do in any case, is: we have a government with two parties in it, both of which want to close the Swedish nuclear power because of safety deficiencies that may exist in relation to nuclear power. At the same time, however, we have a government that seems to be genuinely uninterested in the security work that is being done within state authorities. The Swedish National Audit Office further notes that the Swedish Radiation Safety Authority has not carried out the supervision that the Government has imposed on it. Given that it is a two-party government that both clearly state in their party programmes that they want to close nuclear power, I find it strange that they have focused so little interest in the authority responsible for the safety of nuclear power. Madam President, I would like The third reflection concerns a government that does not seem to be governing authorities, even in areas where there is an explicit political line. The question then, of course, arises: how do you govern authorities in other areas, where perhaps you do not have the same clear political line? I may not be going to bring up last summer's debacle with the Transport Agency, but it is clear that it raises a thought: that you have such a weak governance of authorities that they can be allowed to, first of all, not really do what they are supposed to and, secondly, take out much more money than they have the authority to do. Finally, I will say something to put things in context. It can be noted that the Radiation Safety Authority has overdrawn or over-invoiced the equivalent of SEK 130 million and that it has not really done what the Government has said to the Authority. But one might ask, Is $130 million a lot of money? Yes, that is, of course, a subjective view. But I can well say that in the spring change budget of the Social Democrats and the Green Party, only SEK 100 million is being invested in defence, where in the long term we might need EUR 18 billion. Of course, the government is not spending much money. I can also say – because I am a defence policy, I have to think about this – that the government now had the opportunity to actually invest in defence in order to strengthen in the long term the development work that has been started and that has been going on for many years. But you choose instead to spend a saving bet on the defense.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-607	Madam President, I would like The Government has proposed to Parliament an amnesty for explosives. Today, the latest arms amnesty, which has certainly been the model, Madam President, of the proposal, is ending. It can well be said that the arms amnesty went beyond expectation. There are about 10,000 different small arms that have been submitted. Very few of them, however, emanate from organised crime and such circles. Much is, of course, about things that have been lying on the winds and have been handed down for generations. But it is a good thing that illegal weapons are put right. I would like to begin by saying that the Liberals are in no way opposed in principle to an amnesty even in the case of explosives. However, we believe that expectations of such an amnesty must be set somewhat lower than those of the arms amnesty. Explosive goods in the terms we intend to deal with dynamite. It's about improvised exploding things. It's about hand grenades. To think that we will have a large amount of such goods submitted is to be too hopeful. Instead, Madam President, we want the Swedish Armed Forces and the police together to have the opportunity to implement such an amnesty. I note, after many years in the Committee on Defence, that the Armed Forces are carrying out tasks in this area all over the world. The Swedish Armed Forces have an infrastructure, a competence and an experience that can come in handy. With this, Madam President, I intend to ask for the approval of reservation 2.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-610	Madam President, I would like In one week in October 2017, the national bomb shelter visited Norrköping twice. Once there was a hand grenade placed under a car, and the second time there was a search warrant where explosives were found. I think it proves that this is a big problem, and it is a problem that has moved out of the big cities of Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö and is now beginning to spread in the rest of Sweden. It is therefore clear that something needs to be done. The availability of explosives has increased and is used in criminal circles. It is therefore a good thing that we are standing here today discussing the report by the Committee on Defence An amnesty for explosives and that in autumn and winter 2018/19 we should have an amnesty where we should be able to submit different types of explosives and explosives. We have experience of four amnesties of arms that have been successfully implemented. I hope that this too can make something disappear from the streets. Maybe the question you should ask yourself is how to do it. The first time I heard about this, I was concerned that someone would throw a box of hand grenades on the counter at the police station. Such an approach might not be a good one. Instead, the idea is to call the police and tell them where this is so that they have the opportunity to come to the site and see if they need to blow it up on site or otherwise transport it from there and, if possible, preserve it and have a time to investigate if it belongs to anyone. I believe that the Swedish Armed Forces are useful here. It is important that the Armed Forces support civil society. The main responsibility for dealing with this in peacetime is the Political Authority. Here are the expertise within the Swedish Armed Forces that you should take advantage of, both when it comes to storing, moving and blowing up these things when needed. I also know that there has been an intermediary contact between the Police Authority and the Swedish Armed Forces in order to deal with this and to regulate it in agreements once the club has fallen into this House. There is, of course, a competence of both the police and the Armed Forces to handle this. Perhaps it should also be added that this is part of what the government is doing to combat the criminal gangs and the problems we have. There has, of course, been a great deal of effort to tighten the scale of penalties for the authorisation of explosives. Explosives and weapons crimes have also been treated equally, so that the penalties there have been tightened up. So there are several different things that are happening. Customs has also been given additional powers to handle this. It should be added to a puzzle, where you try to create a resistance to the criminal society and thereby a safer Sweden. I shall not prolong the debate, but would like, last but not least, to support the committee's proposal.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-620	Madam President, I would like This weekend the last arms amnesty, which has been going on between 1 February and 30 April, ended. Almost 10,000 weapons have been turned in. It is slightly fewer than at the last arms amnesty, but we have not received the final statistics yet. What we do know, however, is that we have received a lot of small arms and more automatic weapons than before, and that is very good. Explosive objects such as explosives and hand grenades have not been in this weapons amnesty but have still been submitted to police stations and caused a great deal of security. This is not the first time it has happened, because there are many citizens out there who are concerned about hand grenades. When you order weapons online today you sometimes get some extra hand grenades as a discount, so there are those who shouldn't be there. This shows that today's case of an amnesty for explosive weapons is needed. Parliament has also announced to the government that we want to see one. It is therefore an order from us here in Parliament. The number of explosions involving hand grenades has increased considerably in recent years. In 2014, eight attacks were reported. By 2016, it had increased to 52. It was also noted last year that hand grenades have become more common. For example, a hand grenade detonated at the police station in Uppsala at the end of November. It can be said that those hand grenades are quite easy to buy and very dangerous. The most common hand grenade found in Sweden is M75, which is made in the Balkans at some point. The shell holds 3,000 steel balls and has a risk distance of 300 metres. Thus, individual shrapnel can get 300 metres away unless they are stopped by a tree or something else that captures the pieces. Within a safety distance of 10 meters from a detonation, it's direct killing. It goes without saying that when these hand grenades are found among criminals, the risk of public and innocent being harmed increases. That is what makes us have a very serious problem. As has been said here before, some steps have been taken to tackle the problem. At the end of last year, the Customs Agency was given the authority to control the importation of explosives from another EU country. The changes also mean that criminal provisions and provisions on how the Finnish Customs can work against such criminality have been improved. In addition, the changes mean that the Customs Agency is actually given the opportunity to refuse to supply goods and that explosives can also be forfeited. These are opportunities that did not exist before. Since 1 January this year, offences against the authorisation of explosives have been tightened so that possession of hand grenades can in principle be equated with possession of weapons. It was absolutely necessary. The regulatory framework has, like, drifted in different directions, and that is not reasonable in the serious situation we have. The amnesty that is now being proposed aims to provide opportunities for people who have illegal explosives to get rid of them without being punished. By contacting the police you will be given instructions and help to take care of explosives, hand grenades and the like this autumn. It is in the nature of the matter that care is difficult. M one that we have had so far has had to cook according to the situation, and the police have had to train a little on this initially. The Liberals have a different opinion on the issue of care and want the Swedish Armed Forces to handle this. I think that the decision before us is well prepared, and I assume that the police can organise the work in a good way. As I said, there is some experience. However, this is the first time we have an amnesty of this kind. J ag assumes that the government will evaluate it eventually to ensure that you have an organisation and an approach that works well, because we need to clean up among these weapons. Today, changing the decision and deciding on a different regime would delay the implementation of the amnesty, which the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, in particular, has called for in the past. I think that would be very unfortunate. Madam President, I would like Serious crime must be combated, and people's security must be improved. Sometimes a lot of people rumble about this thing with gun amnesties and say it's harmless old hunting weapons and so on, but it's not like that. The weapons are dangerous. Explosives are dangerous. It is used by criminals, but unfortunately other people can also be injured by these weapons. It is, of course, naive to think that a single decision would correct this and solve the problem for us, but as part of a purposeful work, I think that today's dossier is important. I support the proposal and the committee's proposal.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-631	Madam President, I would like I would like to add very briefly to the wisdom that has been said here. I have previously had a company in my professional life that for 30 years was involved in explosions and permits. It happened sometime a month or so that we went out and picked up lighters, detonators, and so on, which various people who had used in the profession previously had left to take care of this. There was, of course, a criminal responsibility to regulate for those who submitted this at police stations. I'm sure there's a lot of things that have had to do with explosives and lighters that are pulling a sigh of relief now. For some reason, some have been left behind. I've been out picking up explosives from the fire department and blowing them up on site. There is now reason to look to the future with confidence. Otherwise, I share all the wise views expressed here by the Social Democrats, among others.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-635	Madam President, I would like We are now going to debate the Committee on Employment's motion for a resolution on equality and anti-discrimination. We Moderates, of course, support all our reservations, but for time-winning, we only ask for the approval of reservations 11 and 21. For us in the Moderates equality and equal value is a question of freedom. It is the individual who is important. You as a human being should not be hindered or given benefits depending on your gender, where you were born or what you look like. The important thing is the individual, that man is the center and not the collective. With regard to the objectives of gender equality policy, we have a specific opinion. When the government's letter on power, goal and authority was discussed, the Moderates had proposals for a different direction of gender equality policy. Since we are not now in a position to reserve ourselves in favour of these proposals, we refer to the previous position of the Moderates. In conclusion, we do not believe that a new agency, the Equality Agency, that breaks down existing activities will benefit gender equality policy in this country. And we are against the government's will to quota company boards. However, we choose to focus on the real problems. One of them, Madam President, is the honour-related violence and the particular situation that prevails in residential areas where honor-related thinking is commonplace. In environments where honor-related structures are very widespread, there are of course major challenges in breaking such structures, which can be a tangible power factor for the people who live and work there. We believe that the government has not done enough in this area. Today, gender equality is also challenged by extensive exclusion. There are women in our country who cannot work because there is a risk that they will meet other men in the workplace. And this is happening in Sweden, Madam President. It just needs to get better. There are also women who are not allowed to move freely in society, dress as they please or be as they please. If anyone has a problem with this and has these poor opinions, they can stay home. V, S and MP have a significant majority of the votes in these areas, but little is being done to improve the situation. Why do people close their eyes to the problem? We are fighting for less exclusion and less dependency on subsidies and consider it to be a priority. It must, of course, be more profitable to work than to go on benefits. One in ten foreign-born women receives financial social assistance compared to one in a hundred native women. That is not the way we should be, but we must do something about this. The Moderates want to combat poverty traps by means of taxes and subsidies designed in such a way that families do not lose out on, for example, a woman going to work. If you now go on a grant, it should be paid on an equal footing. We want to review the possibility of individualising the income limits of labour income in support of subsistence. We also want to promote equal access to healthcare and care. Alliance-led county councils generally have shorter care queues than those governed by the Social Democrats. Access to care on time is also an important gender equality issue. Furthermore, we believe that the County Administrative Board in Östergötland County should retain its national mission on honor-related violence and repression. This work should, of course, be permanent. The activities at the National Centre for Women's Peace in Uppsala and the coordination of work against prostitution and human trafficking in Stockholm should also be maintained. Metoo has been important to illustrate how bad it can be in the world's most equal country. It is very good that the questions have surfaced. My hope is that attitudes and how to behave towards each other change, of course for the better. We must not forget all the testimony we have been able to hear. We talk a lot about how much is done about the judiciary. The Moderates spend more money than the Red-Green Government does on the judiciary, the police and the courts. D is where the difference is made, so that notifications are not piled up or written off. Madam President, I would like All people must be able to live their lives without having to hide their sexual orientation, their gender identity or their gender expression because of fear of being subjected to discrimination, violence or other violations. The Moderates are working for a society where there are the same conditions for everyone, regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity, to be fully included in society and, in practice, to be treated equally on the basis of their own interest and ability. We want to review and evaluate the Non-Discrimination Act. It is important to ensure that the new law has had the intended effect. The review should assess, inter alia, the possibility of strengthening sanctions for non-discrimination offences. Finally, Madam President, I have already mentioned this in the speaker's chair, but I would like to warmly welcome the red section of the House to moderate-controlled municipalities such as Täby, Danderyd and Österåker. There, female employees employed by the municipality earn much more than men. Solna is another municipality that is among the most equal in Sweden. One wonders, of course, where the Social Democratic or the red examples are when it comes to equality. In both Malmö and Gothenburg, the municipal employees earn much more. In conclusion, Madam President, the Moderates are really working on gender equality.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-655	Madam President, I would like For time winning, I request the approval of reservation 1 from the Swedish Democrats. Then, too, I am in favour of reservation 21, as has been done in the past. We are here once a year to discuss equality and discrimination and efforts for one and the other. I do as I usually do and talk a little about the reservations that we have in the report. The first reservation, which I support, concerns the objectives, governance and organisation of equality policy. That's exactly why that's where I choose to start. The Swedish Democrats have a slightly different approach to gender equality policy than most others in this House. Unlike the parties that choose to focus on counting women and men and who only look at economic aspects, which are certainly important but not always the best way to measure gender equality, we assume that freedom of choice for the individual, to be who you are and to be the best you want to be on the basis of the conditions you have, must be the focus. You should not lag behind or get worse living conditions because you make the choices you have the right and the opportunity to make. Gender, sexual orientation or other things do not matter when reviewing if you do the best you can to make of your opportunities. You get to choose freely, and you get a good life after your choices... as long as you stay within the limits of the law? Only you know what you value most and what priorities you want to do in your life. This has consequences, for example, for the objectives of gender equality policy, where a number of places are currently talking about equality, as if the most important thing was to count the number of women and the number of men who make specific choices. We start from the possibilities of making the choices, not that there should be as many women and men who work exactly as much in different industries, or in the home for that matter – how one now chooses to measure what is homework or not. In our opinion, everyone is capable of making the choices you want to make yourself and of knowing what is a warmest of hearts and priorities. That is precisely why I usually say that our equality policy is spread out in all areas of policy. Earlier today we held a press conference in which we presented our proposal for our budget. We also have an article out today, and I was particularly pleased that it highlights the possibility for spouses to share pension rights among themselves. As I said, there are absolutely consequential effects of today's policies and regulations that will make you worse off if you make certain choices. More women than men choose to spend more time at home with their family and thus earn less money for their pension. I believe that this will change, because we are looking over time at making more and more free choices in different ways. But it is also a fact that many want to prioritise the family more sometimes and want to be able to divide between themselves. We therefore believe that it should be easier to also share your pension between partners. It might as well be a man who chooses to stay home more and who should not have to slip behind or risk a worse economy in older days because he has made that choice. That's how we Swedish democrats work. We look at the problems and solve them instead of counting and forcing them all into one template. Gender equality policy objectives also include an explicit target of men's violence against women. We have opposed this wording in the past because violence in close relationships can take many different forms. I was at a conference in Norway on Women's Day, and I was pleased to hear about a research report that raises the testimony of all those affected by violence in close relationships and who do not follow the model men's violence against women. There are men who dare not mention these problems or turn to anyone because they are ridiculed because they are subjected to violence by their female partner. People in same-sex relationships are not caught either. When it comes to honor-related violence, it can sometimes be even harmful to apply the same solutions as you do to other forms of violence in close relationships. I have during my years as a gender equality political spokesperson and also before as an active member of our women's association, who has long focused on the issue of honor, heard many young girls and guys testify about how, after a meeting with social services, they are sent back to their family after the parents said: We solve this. It's a good thing you brought it to our attention. You apply the same templates as in other cases of violence in close relationships and believe that mediation and some oversight can suffice. The best result is that young people flee and get help elsewhere, at worst they go completely underground and disappear. It is important to have a breadth, and that is why the objective of men's violence against women is far too narrow and risks missing important groups. Here you should work broadly for gender equality. In the reservation, we also have standard wordings that we are against quotas. It goes without saying to me, and I have said this many times and will continue to say so many times in this House. I want to be judged for who I am and not on the basis of my gender. I want my daughter to know that her mother came somewhere in life because she was a person like other people and not because there were quota rules. I think the only way to achieve real equality is to stop seeing me as a representative of the sisterhood or all the women and start seeing me as a human being, quite simply. I rarely hear my male colleagues get the question: How does it feel to be a man in your party? Rarely is the question asked to men: Should you not do this for the brotherhood or all other men? For me, it is just as obvious that I should be seen as an individual and not as a representative of my gender. Mr Erik just spoke about the need to evaluate the anti-discrimination law. We have that reservation in common with the Moderates and the Liberals. The law has changed, and we were opposed to the last enlargement before a proper evaluation of the operation of the law had been carried out. Is it trapping everyone as planned or not? Are there groups falling between the chairs? Does this have unreasonable consequences in working life for entrepreneurs? Does it make it possible for something to get better, or is it placard politics? These discussions are being raised in many places. I noted during the discussion of the report that there were a number of motions on, for example, the right to bring guide dogs into different places. Is it or is it not covered by the new law? It has not been investigated and tested. Questions about age are also raised properly. What the impact of the legislation we have is important to investigate, and it should be done as soon as possible. That is why we have chosen to support this reservation. In a previous debate on enlargements, I pointed out that a better way of achieving the effect of discrimination could be to enable companies to receive additional incentives to adapt their activities rather than to legislate in a way that looks good on paper but does not have any general effects because there are different exceptions. Once again, I support that reservation. Let me also say a few words about the two alliance-wide reservations – if there is any Alliance. The meaning of both is good. On the one hand, we need to look at women's working conditions, because we know that they are bad in many places. On the one hand, one should pay attention and look at where honour violence is. The problem, however, is that there are no concrete proposals. I'm afraid that's a little placard politics. It is said that it is important to pay attention to where honour violence is and that women have a bad situation in the labour market. The Swedish Democrats have put forward concrete proposals in many places and in other reports in other committees. We have been exercising for incentives to the public sector, where many women work and have poor conditions, to improve conditions. We have put forward numerous proposals to combat honour-related violence. I believe that this is the way to work in this House and this House.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-680	Madam President, I would like Autumn and winter metoo uprisings put words on what most girls, girls, women, women, women, women and aunts get, or have been taught, are part of life: that it's just to like the situation and learn strategies for how to avoid close hands, stand over plump jokes, continue at work firm promotion went by sex instead of skills or opt out situations that are known to be risky. The strategies were often not something we were aware of– they were such an obvious part of our being, much like a reflex, learned from early years and then refined, developed and become part of who you are. Such an impact has the insecurity and vulnerability of all our lives. The power of the Metoo – when so many women finally stepped forward and told about abuse and violations they were subjected to – is what guarantees a change. It was women from all parts of society and of all ages, and it was both old and new stories. The important thing was that the silence was broken and that the stories became known. Many women finally dare to tell, one by one, but above all together. For when we join together and gain power from each other, it becomes possible to make visible the oppressive structures. The threats – if you tell them, no one will believe you – became public. If you tell me, you will never get a job again, or if you tell me, I will kill you – those threats were also known. The assaults and threats were drawn into the light. But something happened. The stories were finally taken seriously. Not all evidence leads, and should not lead, to judicial redress, but it must lead to active work and talks that lead to progress in politics, in workplaces, in school environments and in civil society. Metoo shows that the whole scale of reducing women, from jokes to hate and violence, is both social, cultural and structural. Therefore, a wide-ranging effort is needed for the metoo to lead to the necessary change. In December, we presented an action programme in which we gathered together the different parts that we stand for, and there are both standards and tough gloves. We believe that we need to achieve improved sex and cohabitation education with higher skills requirements for teachers. We want the teaching of sex and cohabitation to be compulsory in teacher education, the Swedish National Agency for Education to be given a mission to assist schools with the necessary education and continuous evaluations, and to make clear the obligation of school heads to provide good sex and cohabitation education to students, so that accountability is facilitated. Porn must also be lifted in. We want to increase the penalties for sexual coercion and sexual exploitation of dependent persons. The punishment for all rape crimes must be increased. The limitation periods for sexual offences also need to be extended. We want to make it easier to dismiss people who commit sexual abuse or harass their colleagues. We also say that we need to strengthen the work of women's and women's shelters so that they get stability and a sustainable way of working. We want to invest further so that it is enough for a full-time employee on every women's and girls' emergency call in Sweden. We believe that the appropriations for the National Centre for Women's Peace need to be substantially increased. It is a knowledge centre that is available to the rest of Sweden and has the opportunity to spread knowledge in a way that allows more people to have access to it. We want more women to know about and participate in these activities. All these proposals are preventive and normative, and they are efforts to meet an increased need. Because if it is finally possible to talk about this, the efforts of society must also respond to it. Otherwise, you will soon be silenced again. Madam President, I would like It was very unfortunate that last year, when the Metoo was brewing, it was the year when the National Centre for Women fought for its existence. In the government's legitimate ambition to strengthen the work of a new gender equality agency to achieve the gender equality policy objectives, it was the same area – the area of gender equality – that would stand for the violins. NCK, the County Administrative Board of Stockholm with its mission against trafficking and prostitution and the County Administrative Board of Östergötland with its work against honour violence, all three were to be shut down and transferred to an authority that then did not even exist. It was a move that could not be made as easy in reality as in a budget paper in the department. The knowledge that was built up was in danger of disappearing, and the environment created by NCK in particular at Uppsala University in collaboration with the relevant authorities was suddenly worth nothing. After a year of turbulence, the government's investigators had to crawl to the cross, and activities after operations remained: Knowledge Ban, higher education and university educations and the Kvinnofridslinjen. On behalf of the Center Party, I want to be very clear: we think that the NCK is doing an important job. During their many years, they have built trust in the issues that allow professionals to read points in the field instead of mocking it as party submissions. The trust and knowledge they gained through clinical activities, research and all calls to the Kvinnofridslinjen do not move with a cut-out-and-stick-in in a budget. We want these networks, this knowledge and this environment to have a continued mission as a centre of excellence and have increased resources, for there is much more to do – to build on what exists instead of tearing down, as the government chose to do. Madam President, I would like The issue of equal rights for women and men cuts across all policy areas, as does the metoo. Democratic rights, economic freedom and physical integrity are all three important dimensions for us to achieve an equal society. We have six gender equality objectives. One of the objectives is distinguished by the fact that it is not only an obstacle to equality but also most often violates the law, and it is men's violence against women. Achieving all three elements requires systematic work on all the objectives set. In this work there are endless challenges, which the Equality Agency has to bite into. They have to do quite a long time without having to take over what others have already done. We have a very divided labour market. Women's entrepreneurship is under threat, not only by demands from financiers and the market, but very much by the current government. We have inappropriate pay differentials. A response for families and homes is still hard on women, especially in the LO collective. Despite the fact that women have been better educated for a long time, it stops too far down the career ladder. We still choose education and work by gender. Women have significantly higher sickness rates. Newly established women find it difficult to enter the labour market. And we have still – 2018 – not had a woman at the prime minister's office. But that thing can in itself be resolved in the autumn. So there are challenges in this area – enough challenges for the Gender Equality Agency to tackle – without we need to defoliate those who have already built up knowledge and competence. The Center Party has proposed a thorough study to identify the costs of the consequences of inequality, in order to better assess what measures are needed and where the efforts are most useful. If Metoo were and is a revolution and has made many more people understand what many of us have said for a long time, such an investigation would also be a battering ram for political proposals that would make a difference. We would certainly not be in full agreement then either, but we would build our differences on a common basis of knowledge. Of course, I support all our reservations and our specific opinion, but I only call for the winning approval of time for reservations 2 and 11.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-703	Madam President, I would like The Left Party wants to see a fair and equal society. Just as inequality affects and restricts everyday life, the economy and living conditions of women, discrimination affects and restricts people's everyday lives, economics and living conditions. That is why inequality and discrimination are an obstacle both to equality and justice and to people's ability and freedom to live their lives. In the last year, we've heard a roar from women all over the world. The Metoo movement is indeed a revolution, and we cannot just move forward as usual. Shame is no longer women's to bear. In Sweden, over 70 000 women have given their testimony, and the stories continue to flow. They come from women in health care, school, defence, the media and commerce and from women in this House. No one can turn a blind eye to the extent of the problems that many of us have lived with all our lives. They cut through our entire society, and it's about men of all ages, backgrounds and positions. The Left Party has made efforts of 120 million in the spring change budget for measures that can help in matters surrounding the Metoo. It is about training for teachers in sex and cohabitation education, about raising the knowledge of social secretaries when it comes to violence in close relationships, about developing the skills of regional safety representatives – a very important issue – and about training for, among others, lawyers and judges. In addition, there is also investment in women's shelters, which is something that we have achieved in previous budgets as well. Madam President, I would like Basically, gender equality is about ending men's over-order. As a feminist party, the policy of the whole Left Party is permeated by this very thing. Power must be shifted, which is closely linked to the economic equality between women and men. For the woman who is exposed in the home, it is vital not to be financially dependent on her partner to leave him when he strikes. We must have decent pensions and workable health insurance. To close the income gap between men and women, one must be prepared to act. There's an individualized parental insurance one step. However, wage differentials in the labour market are different. It is this, which is in the area of the Employment Committee, that I will be focusing on right now. Women's average monthly earnings in 2016 were 88 per cent of men's wages. The pay gap between women and men was 12 per cent. This means that an average woman each month earns about $1,200 less than an average guy. In one year the difference will be SEK 50 400. And, of course, this in turn is reflected in the pensions. The figures apply after part-time work has been counted up to full-time. The pay gap between women and men gradually narrows over time, but progress is extremely slow. At the current rate, it will take 2050 to achieve equal pay. When I look at my daughters, I think that the patriarchy must end before they enter the labour market, but it goes too slowly. The main reason for the pay gap between women and men is that there is structural wage discrimination in women-dominated sectors. The main occupations of women are systematically valued lower than the equivalent occupations of men, although the occupations may have similar degrees of difficulty. Then we have a mediation institute. One of the commissions of the Mediation Institute is to contribute to a well-functioning wage formation, where the competitive industry sets the norm for the wage increase. That's what we call the mark. However, the agency should also promote equal pay. It is quite clear that in practice these objectives have come to be in conflict with each other. The normative role of the brand not only strengthens the pay gap between traditionally women-dominated and traditionally male-dominated professions, but also increases. The contradiction between the two mandates of the Mediation Institute is raised in the context of agreement negotiations between the social partners. The Mediation Institute has established in each contract business that the Authority will not contribute to any contracts that exceed the increase in wages provided by the industrial agreement. It has been a clear signal to employers that they do not even have to negotiate the gender initiatives that several women-dominated trade unions have requested. The interpretation of the mandate by the Mediation Institute thus gives a strong signal to trade unions that there is no point at all in prioritising structural equalisation of the pay gap between men and women through changes in relative wages between different occupational groups. If the structural pay gap between women's and men's dominated professions is to be addressed, wages in women-dominated sectors must be able to increase at a much faster rate than in male-dominated ones. It requires a change in the mandate of the Mediation Institute. By definition, the concept of well-functioning wage formation should also include systematically closing the structural pay gap between women's and men's dominated professions. This would hardly mean a more comprehensive state-run wage formation than the current interpretation, where the industrial standard's ceiling for all contracts helps to maintain structural wage differentials. The Mediation Institute is already an authority by which the State expresses its position. The Left Party therefore wants the role of the Mediation Institute to be changed so that it is clear that industry's wage standards should not be interpreted in such a way that active efforts cannot be made to reduce the structural pay gap between women's and men's dominated professions. That is why I am in favour of Amendment No 8, which deals with this very subject. Madam President, I would like As I said, discrimination is also an obstacle to justice, equality and people's freedom in both everyday and working life. The question of the right to interpretation in working life is absolutely central to the right of deaf and hearing-impaired people to live a life free from everyday obstacles and to be part of the labour market. A relatively new ruling from the Labour Court raised the issue when it recently concluded that there was no discrimination when Södertörn University interrupted the recruitment of a deaf lecturer, although the employer acknowledged that he was the most competent candidate. Recruitment was interrupted only because the university considered the cost of an interpreter unreasonable for the employer to bear. The consequence of this judgment is that people with hearing loss who need interpretation under current rules can be legally discriminated against. The Swedish Association of Hearing Harnesses writes: Today's interpreting service has serious shortcomings. It is often unclear where to turn for an interpreter and who should pay for it. Hearing-impaired, deaf and deaf-blind people often come under pressure between the County Council's Interpreting Centre, Arbetsförmedlingen, employers, education providers and other parties. This has particularly serious consequences in working life, where workers may not be able to do their job, miss jobs and have other problems. This is precisely what we see in the new judgment, that people may even miss the opportunity for employment because of this. The Left Party is therefore of the opinion that a new government inquiry should be set up on how Sweden should have more qualified sign language interpreters on the labour market. That is why, Madam President, I am in favour of reservation 18.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-721	Madam President, I would like Liberals are a feminist party. For us, feminism is a crucial issue of freedom. Gender equality is an obvious part of the core of liberalism. It's about everyone having the same freedom to choose their own life. People are primarily individuals, not genders, and they should be judged according to their skills and nothing else. Gender should never be allowed to dictate life conditions, but only competence and rigour should be able to determine where you are going in life. Liberals have a history of equality that begins in the struggle for women and men to vote. Despite significant progress, however, many challenges remain. The pay gap between women and men is gradually narrowing, but not fast enough. In today's Sweden there is a difference of about 3 million in life income between an average man and an average woman. Women take three times more parenting days than men, traditionally female occupations are characterised by lower wages than traditional male occupations and women are far more at risk of gross domestic violence. Liberals rely on such facts. We see how individuals are affected and recognise the structures that limit individuals' freedoms and opportunities to participate fully in society. This is particularly true of women, as was revealed during the Metoo debate. And we're trying to work to change the state of things. This is what makes the Liberals a feminist party. Madam President, I would like Liberals safeguard freedom-based welfare and everything that opens up to entrepreneurship in women-dominated sectors. Women who currently work in the public sector often have a solid education but do not receive currency in the payroll account for invested time in education. Those who train for important professions such as subject teachers, midwife or pre-school manager – these are examples of women-dominated occupational groups with long academic education – today receive less money during their professional lives than those who choose not to continue their studies. It shouldn't be like that. We in the Liberals have therefore decided to invest in career services in women-dominated professions, such as teachers and specialist nurses. We also want to reduce government income tax so that more people can keep more of their hard-earned wages. Our taxes will reward those who train and take responsibility at work. We all benefit from that. Madam President, I would like No one should have to be afraid of being subjected to domestic violence or in close relationships. We therefore want to allocate more resources to work against violence against children and for more people who persecute their ex-partner to get an electronic anklet. We also want to give the country's women's shelters long-term and reasonable economic conditions. It is about every woman's right to feel safe and about the freedom to decide in her own home and over her own body. Madam President, I would like This report on equality and discrimination from the general period of exercise sets out many good ambitions. 92 claims are dealt with. Unfortunately, all of them are rejected. In this context, I would like to highlight the reservations expressed by Liberals in the report. For time to come, I will only ask for reservation 3 on the objectives, governance and organisation of gender equality policy. But, of course, I support all our reservations. Reservation 3 is about one of Sweden's biggest challenges: integration. Liberals find it regrettable that the new target structure for gender equality policy is not designed in such a way as to highlight the worrying gender differences in the establishment of newcomers in the new country. The differences are visible in almost all areas of society, from school to labour market and from parenthood to pensions. In order to make gender equality a priority in the integration process, the Liberals propose a new sub-objective during integration. It is about expectations, obligations and rights to an independent life. Madam President, I would like Since the end of the 20th century, women have had higher absenteeism than men, and unfortunately the difference continues to increase. More women than men are forced to leave work prematurely because of ill health. Women also report to a greater extent than men that they suffer from both mental and physical work-related problems. Improving the working environment for women is an important part of reducing sick leave. That is why, in one of our reservations, we Liberals believe that further action must be taken. Madam President, I would like Liberals have also pointed out in the past that the Government's gender equality policy does not pay sufficient attention to entrepreneurship issues. We stand by that criticism. Gender equality policy without an entrepreneurial perspective risks consolidating gender stereotypes where entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship are associated with men, while women are primarily seen as employees. We are already seeing figures showing that 90% of all risk capital goes to men and that less than 30% of all entrepreneurs are women. Madam President, I would like However, there is one sector that stands out. There, the number of businesses run by a woman is more than 50%, unlike in other sectors. It's about the welfare sector. Yes, you heard me right! It is precisely this sector that the Social Democrats and the Green Party have surgically painted as evil and greedy. It is a sector in which the possibility of operating should be devastated. For Liberals, increasing women's entrepreneurship is a priority. Madam President, I would like With regard to age discrimination, protection was strengthened in 2013, not least by the auspices of the Alliance and the Liberals. However, there are a number of exceptions: at the age of 67, you lose the right to remain in work and people with disabilities lose their right to daily activities. At the age of 65, the car support for a person with a disability also ends and needs the car to work. The conditions in banking, insurance and more are also deteriorating. Of the approximately 300 notifications of age discrimination received annually by the Discrimination Ombudsman, only a handful have led to measures. In particular, we Liberals believe that more needs to be done to tackle age discrimination. And we need a more thorough evaluation of the Discrimination Act to ensure that it has the intended effect. Such a review could include the current model of a State anti-discrimination ombudsman combined with more independent anti-discrimination agencies. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to stress the importance of creating the conditions for a more equal and equal society, where people's background should not determine their future. As a liberal, I feel particularly proud of a gender equality story that begins with the struggle for the right to vote for women and men and the fight for special taxation. I am proud of great liberal fighters such as Selma Lagerlöf, and Miss Friman and Anna Whitlock, Kerstin Hesselgren and the more contemporary gender equality ministers Nyamko Sabuni and Maria Arnholm. Many thanks to you! And many thanks to you who are to come!
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-739	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservations 4 and 11. Gender equality policy is basically about values and human views and about women and men having the same rights, opportunities and obligations throughout their lives. No one should be discriminated against on grounds of sex, and no one should take rights that reduce or violate the opposite sex. Throughout history, courageous women but also men have fought against oppression and injustices that have been and still affect women around the world. Every day the human dignity of women is violated precisely because they are women. Not least, it seems that sexual oppression is the deepest, no matter where in the world we are. The work on gender equality will never end, because it is rooted in values and an ethics that every new generation must regain. Madam President, I would like Unlike some other political trends, Christian-democratic equality policy does not mean that everything should be distributed exactly equally, or that people's free choice should be an expression of structural oppression. Freely shaping one's own life and respecting one's life choices is an important part of a democratic and free society. That freedom must never be restricted by gender equality as a cover. Unfortunately, in the debate on gender equality, there are sometimes tendencies to see a group in front of a human being. Of course, there are structures in our society that, among other things, disadvantage women. And we'll see, recognize and analyze those structures. However, when solutions and debt are collectived, they run counter to the Christian-Democratic principle of inviolable human dignity. We must not reduce people to represent only a certain sex, age, ethnicity or sexual orientation. We are all unique people where gender is part but far from all. The issue of gender equality must not be just a women's issue. There are areas where men as a group are actually less developed than women. It is important to take these areas seriously too, although the greatest focus of the gender equality debate should of course be on women. But in school, boys perform significantly worse than girls, and that difference has increased over time. That is an alarming sign. Among the homeless and addicts – perhaps the most fragile and vulnerable group in our society – is an overwhelming majority of men. Even among victims of violence, the vast majority are men. Although, for natural reasons, the debate on gender equality often focuses on women and the female perspective, we must not forget those parts where boys and men as a group are hit harder than girls and women. Madam President, I would like For these reasons, among other reasons, we Christian Democrats are critical of how the interim objective of stopping men's violence against women is formulated. It is unfortunate to have a goal that blames men as a collective, as the objective description actually does. It also forgets those boys and men who fall victim to violence in a close relationship, either through culture of honor or from a male or female partner. We therefore want the objective of men's violence against women to be supplemented to include violence in close relationships, as well as violence in the name of honour. If we miss these parts, we miss a large and important part of the gender equality work. Madam President, I would like The interim goal of achieving an even distribution of unpaid domestic work, says the Christian Democrats, is a typical example of an area in which politicians should not go in and poke into. Although the objective itself is, of course, laudable, it also means that it will be free for politicians to propose measures to achieve the objective. We have already seen how an investigation wants to increase the governance of parental insurance withdrawals, and I fear that this is only a first step. We must respect the choices of individuals and families themselves. Not all families are equal; life choices and life situations are different and can also vary over time in one family. We must respect this. Force, quota and exhortation by political means will not create a good society, and it will always be individuals who will be caught up in such a system. We Christian Democrats want to regulate as little detail as possible and to leave power to individuals and families as much as possible. Sometimes people will make choices that we in the political collective may not like, but we have to accept that. And politicians aren't supposed to regulate the unpaid domestic work-- it's best for the families themselves. One of the strongest expressions against gender equality is the violence of honour and the repression of honour. The phenomenon is far more widespread than many of us can imagine. These are not obscure households in unfamiliar neighborhoods, but are a common phenomenon to which both boys and girls are exposed. It is contrary to every aspect of the values and ethics on which our Swedish society is based and on which it will be based in the future. We in Sweden have been too naive in view of the oppression of honour. For a long time it was hardly possible to touch the subject without the racist cards starting to hail. Many argue that one cannot distinguish between different types of violence but says that honor oppression is male oppression, just like all other violence, and that it is based on patriarchal structures. The culture of honor certainly does. Honorary oppression, however, is a category of itself, where the value of family honor is above the integrity and dignity of individual family members. These are values that can affect entire communities and entire districts, and we are already seeing how certain districts in our metropolitan areas are affected by honorary culture. In a joint motion, the Alliance would therefore like to draw attention to this problem in the districts where honorary thinking is common. The fact that the Red-Green parties have not really understood the problem is obvious when you read the committee's position. It explains the problem of honour, which stems from socio-economic conditions, and it says that it would be social divides that give rise to honorary thinking and culture. It is actually remarkable that the red-green parties are stuck in this thinking – as if Sweden is the country that fattens and creates honorary cultures. It is an affront to Sweden and our values to claim such a thing. Honour culture is a value that some carry to Sweden from their home countries and that goes on from one generation to another. It has nothing to do with socio-economic divides; it has to do with values and human views. Madam President, I would like Sweden has come a long way in the work on gender equality. We should be proud of that, and we can thank many brave women throughout history. However, the victory cannot be taken for granted. The issue of equality must be alive, because it has to do with values and human views. However, politics should keep its hands off what is up to individual people to decide for themselves. Gender equality must not be a cover for the pursuit of socialist claustrophobic politics. The issue of equality is a question of freedom, and it should continue to do so.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-760	Madam President, I would like We are not very far apart in this particular report, Erik Slottner. We have many common entrances, and on the whole I was very happy to hear a lot of what was said in the speech. My question is more of a curious nature. I mentioned in my own speech that we have chosen not to support your reservation on the proposal on honour-related violence in certain environments. This is simply because all it says is to pay attention to its existence. I wonder how we have thought about the concrete consequences of such a recognition of the fact that the situation exists in some areas, unlike others. This is a purely curious question.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-763	Madam President, I would like I think that's a very good question that Paula Bieler is asking. It is important to think about, and it is important to be constructive and come up with new proposals on how we can act to stop the tyranny that occurs in many families in Sweden. I believe that an important part of this is the social orientation, which I believe we need to develop through more hours and by getting a clearer and more concrete content. I believe that honour oppression and how we view people and families in Sweden need to be strengthened in social orientation and emphasised much more. This is a concrete example. We Christian Democrats, like many other parties, have pushed for honour repression to have its own category of crime so that it is not confused with other types of violence and so that we recognise the issue of honour as a separate – I can say specific – social problem. I also think it is important that we bring civil society in. Civil society can support in different ways. In some of our suburbs where we know that the problem of honour is great, there is a civil society that could support, inform and further educate people and families in how we view honourably. This is, however, above all a policy of integration that dares to make demands and which is clear from the values on which our society is founded. Social orientation may be the clearest example, but at the same time we should know that many of those who exercise honorary oppression are not included in the social orientation because they have lived here for a very long time. That's where we need to find other entrances.
i-GGu2gYGCN4zjiQ3LKNeAeH	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Erik Slottner! That's good. I am sure that after the elections we will be able to remedy a great deal. We have, of course, put forward similar proposals in all these areas, from extending the social orientation so that it becomes more compulsory and more comprehensive to cohesion policies aimed also at those who have been around for a long time in our country. What I reflected on in this particular reservation text, and as regards the focus of the text, is that there is talk of paying particular attention to the situation in certain residential areas. These efforts are about working in general, throughout society. It is the very attention that I ask myself. In our neighbouring country Denmark we have talked about special laws that will apply in different ways – you should get different penalties for different residential areas. I believe and hope that this is not something that is topical here from any party. However, I wonder whether attention to a specific residential area should be crucial. I believe that more action and efforts are needed in general. As I said, both we and others have been proposing for a long time precisely the form that is now being mentioned. You may want to say a few more concrete words about the residential areas, Erik Slottner. Otherwise, I hope for fruitful motions and reservations that may be common after the elections.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-773	Madam President, I would like In the same way as we say no to special sharia courts and other things in different parts of Sweden, we of course say no to special types of justice in different parts of Sve Rige regardless of what type of right of skipping you want to introduce. That's where we're in complete agreement. I agree that this may not be the most concrete motion or the most concrete motion. The profession could well be filled with more content, and such content is present in other parts of our exercise. You can see that if you go in and read various expenditure movements. This motion is part of a larger exercise. I mentioned civil society before, and I believe that civil society can do a lot. I believe that mosques which clearly reject the repression of honour, for example, could make an important contribution to these neighbourhoods. When we talk about residential areas, it is often whole districts we mean. Social services are important when it comes to paying attention to and seeing children and also adults who are subjected to honorary oppression in their own home. Is there any way we can train teachers and leisure staff to detect oppression of honour and can we create a culture in which people who are subjected to oppression of honour, not least children and young people, dare to report this to someone whom the child or youth has confidence in in the school world, in social services or in leisure activities, you may thus be able to get more reports and thus also discover more cases. It is about creating trust and trust in the Swedish government structure and civil society. If we can create it, we can certainly get a bit on the way in this work.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-777	Madam President, I would like I will start by talking about the area of gender equality, and then my party colleague Eva-Lena Jansson will talk about the area of discrimination. Madam President, I would like The Metoo call is the largest gender equality movement in a long time. Many likely got a point of view as to how common it is that girls and women have been subjected to sexual harassment and violence. As a new employee or insecure employment, many testify that they thought they had to put up with it. Many people testify to a poor working environment, which is something that no one should be forced to put up with or believe that one should have to put up with. The Metoo call came to Sweden when we were equipped, because we had been working on gender equality for quite some time. Sweden was also equipped in such a way that we dared to listen, and we had a feminist government that directly understood the seriousness of this and took it very seriously. We therefore welcome Social Democrats that our government invested more money in our amending budget in the prevention and competence-enhancing work against sexual harassment in the workplace so that the Swedish Work Environment Authority can carry out information and training efforts to support both employers and regional safety representatives. Safety representatives have an important role to play in supporting workers in the workplace. It is also important that we take care of all the testimony so that it has not been in vain for the girls and women who have actually dared to tell even though it has aroused many and strong feelings. Right now it is particularly good that we have a new gender equality agency that can be responsible for this and ensure that things are done in the future and that you can take advantage of these stories. Madam President, I would like In this report, the alliance parties have a common reservation where they are concerned about women's ill-health and poor working environment. I welcome the fact that the alliance parties have woken up now, because women's poor working environment and sick leave rates are nothing new. Those problems existed when the Alliance itself was in power. The alliance's solution was then tax cuts, no major investments in welfare or work environment and a deterioration in health insurance. The Alliance also removed the Work Life Institute, ALI, which researched and collected knowledge about women's work-related ill health. After the closure, it can be clearly seen that health and safety policy has been lagging behind. We Social Democrats do exactly the opposite. We are historically investing a great deal in welfare. We historically invest a lot in the working environment and have a strategy for modern working life 2016 – 2020. We are investing in more resources for the Swedish Work Environment Agency and better health insurance, and this summer we are opening a new agency for work environment knowledge that will work with preventive work, reduce work-related ill health and sick leave, not least in women-dominated professions. The Government has previously invested funds in research on women's dominoes in the working environment of the professions and women's work-related ill health. Madam President, I would like Our feminist government has done many good things for a more equal Sweden. At the end of the parliamentary term, I would like to sum up some of the political content of gender equality. I promise I won't read the whole list-- I have one that's more than 25 pages long. These are historical investments in welfare. Elderly care, health care, both cancer care and maternity care, school and preschool have received more resources. Last week, children's groups were reported to decrease in pre-school size, and about 28,000 more are employed in school. 250 000 more have got jobs, of which about 100 000 more in welfare. As a result, the welfare workers have had more colleagues. There are now more training places so that you can change profession or find the right profession right away. We have a new gender equality agency, and an authority for working life knowledge will be launched this summer. We have introduced two new sub-objectives: equal health and education. We have annual initiatives on women's shelters. We invest in knowledge and education to be able to respond to girls and women who have been subjected to sexual violence and violence in close relationships. There has also been an agreement between SKL and Kommunal on full-time work, and that work has begun. We invest in salary surveys every year and for more companies. Housing allowance has been increased. We have removed the custody allowance and the backlog in health insurance, increased child benefit and maintenance allowance, increased and improved the Social Insurance Fund, continued work for more equal parental insurance and removed pensioner's tax for a lot of pensioners. Soon we will also have a new law of consent. The list can be made even longer, but for time winning I end there. All of this is not done by itself, but is about social democratic equality and welfare policies and that we are clearer when we budget and look at how, in all policy areas, we distribute the money in a more fair, equal and equal way than previous governments have done. Even though we've done a lot of good things, there's more to do. We know that women do not receive the full wage but lose some 3.6 million during their working life. We know that full-time is the norm for men but not for women. We know that men's work clothes are self-evident, but they are not for women. We know that women still account for most of the unpaid work when they have started a family. At the same time, we know that women are more educated than men, but that it is not visible in women's wallet. It is also about class and gender. According to LO's latest gender equality barometer, only four out of ten women have permanent full-time employment. 25% of LO women have fixed-term jobs. 50% of LO women are part-time. 58% of women are insecure jobs, i.e. employees may be employed for a day or a few hours. Talking class and gender are big differences: Makteliten earns 55 times more than an industrial worker and 60 times more than a nurse. So there is still much to be done, both politically and for the social partners. Madam President, I would like Men's violence against women must stop. Girls and women should not be subjected to so-called honor-related violence or oppression. There is a need for more knowledge and for more and more people to act, both at school and at the workplace and between neighbours. We welcome the fact that the Government has commissioned the Gender Equality Agency to provide educational and knowledge support regarding, among other things, honor-related violence and repression to both teachers and managers at higher education institutions and universities. Madam President, I would like When 250 000 more people have a job, we get more tax revenue to invest in welfare, which is good for everyone. When about 100 000 more people work in welfare, the working environment is better for a great many women. When more than 5 million people in Sweden go to work, confidence in the future is created and the opportunity for people to make a living and be a good example for their children. This is how we build a strong Sweden. I support the proposal in the report and reject all motions.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-791	Madam President, I would like The public sector is a major employer for women in particular, where it is the policy that is the employer. One can talk about equal pay, but in practice it does not always look as good where, for example, the Social Democrats rule. It must be a nail in the eye of the Social Democrats and Left that M-governed Solna has the most equal salaries in Sweden when it comes to municipal employees. In Täby, women earn more, and it is also a moderate and alliance-led municipality. My simple question is really an invitation. I would like to invite the Social Democrats on a study visit to Solna to see how to work with gender equality in real life.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-793	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is always nice to come out and look at different municipalities and their gender equality work. As I said in my speech, many women receive neither full-time nor working clothes nor a fair wage. Often they also find insecure employment. However, regardless of who governs the municipalities, there is a certain tendency to lower wages only because it concerns women-dominated occupations. However, there are good examples too: last week I heard from one of my party colleagues that in the municipality of Bollebygd, which belongs to my party district, through their pay surveys every year, women dominated jobs such as nurses, preschool teachers and children's nurses were underpaid. Now a correction is being made, and these three professions are getting quite a salary boost. This is how you can work with policy instruments, as we have done here. It is also the case that SKL has been given a full-time assignment, which is extremely important. In some municipalities – I can look at my own municipality of residence, the City of Borås – you have worked for a long time full-time as a right. But who has counteracted this in the city of Borås? Yes, they're your party friends, Erik Andersson. It's the Moderates and the Alliance. They agreed to it once, for two professions, but no more. So when it comes to who controls, it is not possible to say that it is only the Moderates who want it to be good. I have experience of something completely different.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-796	Madam President, I would like I asked a simple question: Is Ann-Christin-Christin Ahlberg interested in coming out on a study visit to see how to work with equal pay for real? Now it actually happens that Solna is the most equal municipality. Then you can blame yourself as much as you want, Ann-Christin-Christin Ahlberg, and talk about the dinghy and the date – in Solna we have a concrete example. Please follow me out there, and we will see how to work with gender equality for real! It is not more difficult than that, Madam President.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-797	Madam President, I would like I don't know if it was me who was unclear, Erik Andersson, but my answer in the previous line was that I find it nice to come out on a study visit. In doing so, I felt that I agreed to see how to work with equal pay in your municipality. However, I dare to say that I have quite a lot of experience in how to work with equal pay – and how to work with equal pay. One such thing in the case of a municipality, when we are talking about the public sector, is that one must politically dare to put one's foot down and put an extra pot in the pay room precisely to ensure that the women-dominated professions are actually elevated to their right value. It is also a question of doing different job values, so that you can see who is actually getting the right salary. Have the right salary been set based on the competence and difficulty of the profession or task? This is not what it looks like, but the salary has often been set on the basis of the man as the standard of support. It's been around since old times, but that's not the truth. Today, there are more women who are single and support their own family than there are men who do. It is therefore a question of actually lifting all professions, whether they are in the public or private sectors, so that women get the right value in the labour market.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-801	Madam President, I would like There's a lot of things you could say. There are both things I agree with and things I do not agree with, but I asked for the floor when the so-called headstock was mentioned. I am also privileged to sit on the Social Security Committee and work on these issues a little, and there have been a lot of discussions back and forth. The system we had before was definitely not optimal, but the system we have now is hardly better. It has not been very long since, for example, it has been revealed that administrators receive higher salaries the more refusals they make and so on. This stems from the signals and saving requirements that the government has sent out. I noted that there was a lot of emphasis in the speech and that perhaps it is a bit wrong for the government to take credit for; it is investigations that have been going on for a long time, and these are proposals that are going through this House after all. However, the signals sent out by the government stand for the government; there we have no influence. The fact remains that there are far more people who lose their sickness benefits now than there was when there was a longer time limit. I have a more constructive question. We all know that it is women who are more affected by this. That is why we have raised it as a gender equality issue. When will there be a proper review of the whole? Is there any input in how to review, for example, the insurance system where it is not fuzzy incentives sent from the Government Office that determine the outcome? Are we going to review the legislation as a whole and make it possible for a system in which people do not fall between the seats? There may be time limits, but time limits that can help people into new systems, in the next step where you need help in other ways than just sickness benefit.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-805	Madam President, I would like After all, the previous government changed the health insurance system to make it worse. There was a precipice and more. When it comes to a better health insurance than today, I am fighting, just like Paula Bieler, for people not to end up between the chairs, which is not okay. Last week, the Director General had to resign from the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, and there will be a new person there. Judgments are constantly referred to. I think it's unfortunate if you just look at judgments. You have to see the individual and the individual person. It's actually the one that's being hit. The purpose of the sickness insurance is that it should be good for those who are ill and need insurance until they have recovered, received rehabilitation or an operation. What is extremely important is that you work preventively against occupational ill health and with a good working environment so that you do not get sick. The large groups are the women-dominated professions. That's where people actually get sick and the big sickness rates are. That is why it is so extremely important to invest in welfare so that there will be more people working there. Then it will be a better working environment for these women. Then the other welfare sector also needs to keep up so that women feel that they can go safely to work and have a good working day.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-811	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that answer, Mrs Ann-Ann-Christin, although it was not a direct answer to what I asked. We have contributed resources to the working environment and to more full-time jobs, something that the Social Democrats have wanted to legislate on but have not provided resources for. It is good to invest in this area, but there is much more to be done. We have many suggestions on how to improve the working environment in the public sector in particular, which we know is dominated by women. This applies in particular to the health and social care sector. The proposals involve reviewing regulations on shared tours, full-time, part-time and so on. But I specifically asked about the health insurance. Most people have probably noticed that the Director General was allowed to leave. It's an election year and an election campaign, so you'd be happy to blame yourself on a farmer's sacrifice. It is the government that has sent out signals that you need to save, it is a fact. It is also a fact that more people are being insured now than it was when there was a more distant time limit. The number has increased. The time limit as such was not optimal because there was no intermediate step. There was no good system for what happened when someone had reached the deadline. I wonder what you're looking over. What kind of system do you want? Do you want to keep no limit at all, so that people can possibly get stuck in the health insurance system for all eternity? That's not helping. I was on sick leave for a while because of stress factors. It is one of the common factors for women on sick leave. The problem lies in the strange rejections that have been made and in the regulations. Many people probably go back to work too early because they don't know what's going on. You don't know how the system will help you get back. That is where the problem lies. We have suggestions that we are working on and that we present parts of. I wonder how the Social Democrats look at how to ensure that people do not fall between the chairs or get stuck in a system without help back.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-817	Madam President, I would like What is absolutely most important for women not to end up in a long or a short sick leave is that they invest in decent working conditions as equal as possible to men's and that there are good and functional work clothes that are suited for the task that performs so. It's not a matter of course for women. There is also a need to look at stress, pressure and breaks in the workplace. There are quite a few who work part-time who skip breaks in order to be able to go home half an hour earlier, which can have devastating consequences. It works for one or two weeks or a month. But we know that if you do not recover in the longer term, you will sooner or later end up in a sick trap. The previous government brought in the research that existed on why women get sick. There was also a pooling of knowledge in this area. That didn't make things any better, rather the other way around. If we had kept that knowledge for eight years... now it would have been even 12 years... maybe we would have known exactly what we would do to do the right things and reduce the sickness rate. The individual might not have been affected by illness or financial loss. With investments in full-time, work environment and work-life research, we will probably get a long way. There is also a need to share more both parental leave and unpaid domestic work. Then we'll be on our way a long way.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-821	Madam President, I would like Ann-Christin-Christin Ahlberg mentioned this with female-dominated workplaces in her speech. What has really been in the middle of this parliamentary term has, of course, been female-dominated entrepreneurship. Mrs Ann-Christin-Christin did not mention that very much in her speech, and I can certainly understand that. The rhetoric of the left-wing parties has been sad about how to view female-dominated entrepreneurship both in domestic services and in the welfare sector. Entrepreneurship in these sectors has decreased during the term of office, or rather has slowed down. Crescendot really came with Ilmar Reepalus's investigation of a ban on profit for companies operating in the welfare sector. We have also seen that the RUT deduction has deteriorated during the term of office. Then I would like to ask Ann-Ann-Christin Ahlberg: How does it increase gender equality to deprive business opportunities in the welfare sector? How does it improve gender equality to make entrepreneurship more difficult in the household sector? Ann-Christin-Christin Ahlberg also pointed out that men's violence against women must stop, and we are in complete agreement there. Nevertheless, I would like to ask whether Ann-Ann-Christin Ahlberg and the Social Democrats could think of a more inclusive concept of violence in close relations and not just talking about men's violence against women? In this concept, violence against men and women in same-sex relationships is invisible. It also makes invisible the violence suffered by men by a female partner. If you get a more inclusive concept and talk about the end of violence in close relationships, then both men and women are included while it can also cover the honour-related repression.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-827	Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats are very clear on the issue of welfare gains. We think that our common tax revenue should go to health care, school and care and to what we have in common, not to any big companies that place their big profits on some strange island that I cannot pronounce the name of. Not so many of the larger companies are run by women, but more by small companies. As our report also states, it is part of the interim objective of economic equality that it should be the same opportunities to run companies that can grow and generate income. The Government's national strategy for sustainable regional growth and attractiveness for 2015 – 2020 points out that it wants to continue efforts to promote women's entrepreneurship. In the 2018 budget bill, we also made special efforts for foreign-born women and their opportunity for their own company. I do not think that this is doing anything. Due to the lack of time, I did not have time to mention this in my speech, so it was good that we could talk about it at the turn of the line.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-830	Madam President, I would like Here the Social Democrats, through Ann-Ann-Christin Ahlberg, continue to fatten and spread the myth that the companies that exist in the welfare sector would be some big giants who move money to islands with names that cannot be pronounced. This is a very marginal phenomenon in Swedish welfare. It is the small companies that women run and which Ann-Ann-Christin Ahlberg mentions in the line shift that the government now wants to impose a profit ban on. After all, the investigation and the proposal that has been put forward is not a limitation on the withdrawal of profits; in practice, it is a ban on profits. It will not be possible to run small businesses as long as you do not have a large ownership in real estate and other things. For a great many women who today run small and valued welfare companies, it will not be possible to do so in the future. They'll have to close if the bill goes through. However, your own ministers have said that it will not. That means there is no threat, you have said. At least the bill is a threat to the small welfare companies. The government and its parties must know that. That's one thing what the targets say. What is important, however, is what is being done to achieve the objectives, i.e. practical policy. It does not help to have a goal of increasing female entrepreneurship if one then pursues a policy that reduces women's entrepreneurship. Surely it is the practical policy that is important and plays a role, not what the Social Democrats and the Green Party have set out in a report?
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-834	Madam President, I would like It may not be unknown to most people that the Christian Democrats and the Social Democrats do not always share the same values and ideology. We Social Democrats stand up for small companies to have a chance to flourish. We also want them to compete on equal terms. We have made a lot of efforts on this. When I meet many women who want to start a business or who are starting a business, they talk to me about that there is no childcare after maybe noon. 18 or that you can't pick up your child at 6 p.m. 21 because then it's night ice. Such practical things are extremely important for women to be able to fully engage in their business and industry. In the same way, it is if you have someone older or someone who needs a little care. Then it is extremely important that the services provided by the welfare sector are of very high and good quality, and that this is accessible to all. This is how women get a chance, because they still take the main responsibility for home and family, whether they have their own business or are starting one. This does not mention the Christian Democrats at all. However, we do. Welfare gives women the opportunity to both work and start their own businesses. At the same time, we must create the conditions for women to dare to start businesses, as we have done in the objective and in the national strategy.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-837	Madam President, I would like It is easy to believe that development is always progressing and that the goal is inevitably gender equality in the world and in Sweden. Some may think that we in Sweden have already achieved gender equality and that Sweden will always be at the forefront in this area. It is gladly taken for granted – a little that we might think that Sweden should always be at the world summit when it comes to the environmental transition, regardless of which parties are allowed to decide. Madam President, I would like That is not the case, however. We see this when we listen to this chamber debate and the proposals, or rather the lack of proposals, that come from several bourgeois parties and from the Swedish Democrats. We see it even when we look out into the world at a time when cold winds are blowing. Ideas that we took for granted – the equal value of every human being, human rights, the right of asylum and the right of every woman to control and control her own body – are questioned and restricted not only to dictatorships but also to what is commonly called liberal democracies. Sweden is still standing up and taking further steps towards gender equality. Sweden has the world's first feminist government. It is not by chance, Madam President, that it coincides with the first government that the Green Party is involved in. When Donald Trump withdraws the aid for thousands of women and their ability to control their pregnancies and their fertility, the Swedish feminist government mobilizes as one of the leading donors globally in terms of sexual and reproductive health and rights. The She Decides initiative has been incredibly important to cover up the hole that the United States has created globally when withdrawing its support. The Swedish core support to the UN Population Fund has in 2014 and 2015 been estimated to prevent over 200 000 unsafe abortions, and 1.6 million people in the world have gained access to contraception through this contribution. Here Sweden makes a difference for women on life and death. More than ever, the government is investing in women's and girls' human rights through the humanitarian aid provided in the aid. A new approach to aid has led to a 35% increase in support for women's organisations in the framework of development cooperation. Madam President, I would like The world has now had a country with a feminist government for almost four years. That is certainly not a matter of course. It is not obvious that Sweden has a feminist government, and the reforms that are being carried out are not uncontroversial. Just look at the custody allowance! It is a contribution that has led, above all, to low-skilled and newly arrived women being locked into the home with income that cannot be lived on, but depends on a partner's income. This is a contribution that the Moderates have defended until the last moment. I must ask, Madam President, whether the Moderates remain on this line. The Moderates are against subsidies in all other contexts and want to encourage people to work. Are the Moderates still defending the custody allowance? Parental insurance is another area in which we have repeatedly had to fight for the small steps towards equality that have, after all, been taken. The third reserved month of parental insurance – the so-called third father month – was barely supported, thanks to the Liberals. True, they have a very proud feminist history. I still want to give that to Said Abdu kredd for. But what do we see in the future? Will the Liberals stand by the goal of the individual being at the heart of family policy as well? Instead, today's system, where only three months are individual, has the collective, the family, at its centre. Then it will not be the decision of the individual woman, but it will be a collective decision as the individual woman, because of the structures that we see in society in common with the Liberals, becomes the one who takes out the absolute majority of the parental days. This has consequences for the labour market, and it has consequences for pensions. Getting more equal benefits from parental insurance is one of the most important reforms to achieve gender equality in Sweden. The Green Party wants to see a three-part division. We want to move forward with proposals presented by a government inquiry. But there is, Madam President, no support in this House today. In 20 days' time, we will be debating another proposal for which the Green Party has fought for more than ten years. It is a law of consent, a law that says that the line between rape and voluntary sex goes on a voluntary basis. I can't believe the law doesn't look like that today. Party after party has joined this line. There is likely to be consensus when the law is passed. But it wouldn't have happened if we wanted equality. Madam President, I would like Sometimes the disagreement in the area of gender equality is not about someone being in favour of equality or for certain proposals and others being against. In some areas, instead, priorities are involved. Where do we put the money? How much are we prepared to bet? Most of us agree that women's shelters are doing a very important job for victims of violence. But the efforts have increased dramatically with this government. The ten-year national strategy against men's violence against women, which also includes honour-related violence and repression, violence in close relationships, regardless of the perpetrators and victims, as well as prostitution and human trafficking, involves investments of SEK 1.3 billion. It moves the focus in a way we've never seen before. The Moderates seem to think that the difference should be made when it is already too late, that is, in the judicial system. We move the focus to prevent this from happening. I am not saying that there is a contradiction, because we are also making historical investments in the police. However, the Moderates are content to say that this is where the problem is solved. But then people have already been exposed. We must work a long time before, with sex and cohabitation education at school and training for the professions that meet with vulnerable people. We must work towards destructive masculinity standards. I've been listening to the Moderates. I've been listening to the Liberals. I have listened to the Christian Democrats. They have all talked about the importance of equality. In fact, however, I only hear concrete proposals in one area, namely the work against honour-related violence and oppression. This is a very important area. But let us not reduce equality policy to just that. As far as the work against honour-related violence and repression is concerned, the government has taken major steps forward. In addition to the EUR 1.3 billion of the ten-year national strategy, we have invested EUR 100 million specifically in the fight against honour-related violence and repression. We have set up an investigation that has the task of proposing a change of law that my party and many others have been running for years, namely a penalty for crimes in the name of honour. We have equated the punishments for genital mutilation with those for rape, because it was not reasonable that it was only a few weeks' imprisonment as a minimum. We also invest in increasing knowledge, even nationally, but above all where it means most: in every person who meets a vulnerable person out in the municipalities. This should be done, for example, by providing basic knowledge to all social secretaries in their basic education on these issues. Madam President, I would like I have already oversold my speaking time. There is much more to be said about the government's efforts in health care and against mental illness, about the important and central gender mainstreaming, about the gender budgeting that is now going on export and more, but before you all tire out, I will conclude by calling for the proposal in the report of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs to be approved.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-855	Madam President, I would like Indeed, there is much to say. This was not a speech where I agreed with so much. I certainly agreed with some parts, of course. But there were also things to react to. For example, you take credit for investigations that have been started by others. It is good to tighten the penalties, for example, for sex with children. At first, they didn't even want prison sentences. It is good that in many ways it goes in the right direction, even when it comes to sexual crimes and so on. However, of course, I requested a reply because there was talk of custody allowance and parental insurance. The Moderates may not want to defend the custody allowance. I don't have a problem doing that. Every family is unique. Every child is unique. Some feel that they do not want or have the opportunity to train their children directly but may need to do so for a longer period of time and take longer than what is available through parental benefit. We mean that you shouldn't have to risk your job if you do that. The sum is very low. I agree. Then perhaps it should rather be raised, so that it will be possible to stay at home with the child longer and not school it according to the template that suits everyone else. You shouldn't fall too far behind financially just because you have to do it that way. When it comes to parental insurance, it's the same thing. We are neither individuals nor collectives in a greater sense. But most of us are part of a larger family. Especially when you have children, you hopefully have a partner that you can discuss with. Parental insurance is already individual. Everyone has different situations. It goes without saying to me that genuine equality is based on voluntary freedom and freedom of choice. Freedom of choice is never granted if you try to force everyone into the same template. Why are you so obsessed with counting women and men and deciding that everyone should act exactly the same? Why don't you let people choose for themselves?
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-859	Madam President, I would like No, it doesn't seem like the Moderates want to defend the custody allowance here today. I hope that's because they've left that thought. The care allowance has actually proved to be a disaster from a gender perspective, from an integration perspective, from a language learning perspective and for children. It has proved to have consequences for women, who have been locked up in the home for a very long time with a very low income which, moreover, was not pensionable. In fact, we in Sweden have one of the most generous parental insurance policies. I think we should be proud of that. But encouraging a system in which women completely lose contact with the labour market for many years to a very small remuneration is something that I cannot understand why the Moderates can defend. You in the Swedish Democrats, on the other hand, have a fundamentally different view of gender equality and of men and women. It is a view that there is no problem if we have a structurally unequal society where women are at home. The fact that you are defending this does not surprise me. But that's where we really do differ. The environmental party is a feminist party that wants to counteract structures that disadvantage women. The Swedish Democrats do not want that. They do not want to see these structures but believe that it is a coincidence that women choose to a large extent voluntarily to become poorer. That is not the case, however.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-862	Madam President, I would like Annika Hirvonen Falk is wrong about our politics. I don't think it's a coincidence that you make different choices. I think there are many different reasons for this. Nor do I think it is a coincidence that the rate of illness is increasing for women who are not allowed to be at home with children to the extent that they want to, even according to international research and so on. I don't think it's a coincidence that in many places you often make more traditional choices the better the economy you have. But I think the important thing is to make the elections possible. The difference between our two parties is that my party has faith that adult people can make choices for their own lives. We believe that they should also be given the opportunity to make those choices. I want to bet on education. I want to invest in information, preferably early in the ages and in school. Let people meet different parts of the world of work to see which industry they want to work in! Have more education in sex and cohabitation and in personal economics! Allows us to make individual choices. But don't think politicians are the ones to decide how we make our choices. Do not think that we in this House know better than people living in our country what suits them best, what they feel best about and what priorities they want to do. That is what separates our parties. I want to make it possible for individuals to become the best they can be and to feel confident that their choices are respected. I'm betting that their choice will have a good consequence. You should not have very small economic conditions if you make traditional choices and happen to be a woman, but you should be able to value everything in life. The female as well as the male, if you want to use those labels, is highly valued. That is what separates our parties. I'm not afraid of differences. But I want differences not to result in drastically worse conditions if you are a woman than if you are a man.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-867	Madam President, I would like It is not an individual choice when mediocre men are recruited as company boards at the expense of more competent women. It is not individual choices when women's dominated occupations are paid less than male dominated occupations. There are not individual choices when the employer shakes his head and wonders: What is this for a man who wants to take the main responsibility for children and family? It is not individual choices when I negotiate and get a lower offer because it looks statistically like women are on parental leave and vagaries more than men. These are structural problems that we politicians have a responsibility to solve. I want an equal society where women and men, girls and boys, have the same opportunities to shape society and their own lives. The Swedish Democrats do not want that.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-871	Madam President, I would like I support the proposal and reject the reservations. I should like to begin by regretting that not all debates in Parliament are sign-interpreted, especially this one, because today we are talking about discrimination and accessibility. Everyone who can work should work – women and men, with or without disabilities, born in or outside Sweden. It is therefore important to remove discriminatory structures and increase accessibility. Protecting against discrimination is a human right and not a negotiable benefit. According to the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, all people are free and equal in value and rights. The committee believes that it goes without saying that there should be continuous work to prevent discrimination in all its forms. Effective work against racism and hate crime is a prerequisite for achieving the goal of a society free from discrimination. Combating racism and similar forms of hostility also prevents the risk of people being disadvantaged by being treated worse than anyone else because of, for example, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, age or gender identity. We, who stand for the equal value of all people, must do everything to safeguard a democratic and inclusive society, free from hatred and intolerance. All preventive work to combat racism and polarisation in society is of paramount importance. This shows not least the demonstrations in Ludvika and Boden yesterday, where decent people demonstrated against Nazis and their progress. I would like to repeat what has been said in previous debates: the Committee believes that hate crimes on a religious basis against Jews, Muslims, Christians and persons of other beliefs or non-belief must be taken very seriously. In a democratic society, there must be zero tolerance against all forms of threats and hatred. Madam President, I would like There are a number of claims in the area of discrimination, and I wanted to mention a few positions on the part of the committee. Regarding the current LGBTQ strategy, we in the committee refer to the continued work of the government to ensure the full enjoyment of human rights by LGBTQ people. At present, the Constitutional Committee is preparing the Government's proposal for extended criminal law protection for trans-nationals. The Government's preparation of the Trans-Persons report in Sweden – Proposals for strengthening position and improving living conditions continue, and we look forward to future results. With regard to European cooperation and the Commission's proposal for a directive implementing the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation, the so-called anti-discrimination directive, the government has repeatedly stated to the committee that it is working towards the adoption of the directive. However, as I said, unanimity is required in the EU and, as all parties in the Parliament know, it is the governments of other countries that prevent the directive from being adopted. Madam President, I would like A group experiencing lack of accessibility and discrimination is deaf and sign-speaking. In the last week, I have been able to read stories about employers who choose not to hire the person who has the best skills because of the person's deafness or sign language in letters, social media and direct meetings. These are stories of how difficult it can be to get sign interpreters at the right time and how employers opt out of deaf people because of the cost of interpretation. But it is also testimony that county councils and regions do not live up to their responsibilities. It is very serious if county councils and regions fail to fulfil their obligations regarding the right to an everyday interpreter. I have recently met Mia Modig and Daniel Westermark from the Swedish Youth Association and had a very informative and constructive meeting about interpreters' rights in working life. Liberals' motion proposes new investigations but no concrete changes. In response to the motion, the committee has referred to the Government's commitment of SEK 15 million extra per year to efforts for improved interpretation service in working life. For me, the most important thing is that we can address the problems that are being pointed out – that is, among other things, that county councils and regions do not respond to the needs that exist – and not simply set up investigations. After my meeting with the Swedish Youth Association, I have read a summary of an interesting proposal on projects with interpreting services in working life and several other proposals. To be clear, today's rejection of an individual motion does not mean that we are putting the question aside. Through our answer, we point out that the government is already working with interpreting services in working life, which we will continue to follow up. Today, representatives of the government also have a meeting with several representatives of deaf and sign-speaking people. This is to take advantage of valuable points of view in the continuing work to make working life more accessible and non-discriminatory to deaf and sign-speaking people.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-884	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that anti-discrimination issues have been strongly prioritised by the government during its term of office, not least at a time when racist organisations are marching on the streets, right-wing populism is growing in Sweden and Europe, and more and more people are worried about increased xenophobia. We have strengthened the local anti-discrimination agencies by giving them increased funding. We have decided to set up an independent human rights institution – an independent function, free from government influence, which will ensure that Sweden meets its commitments under the human rights conventions we have ratified. An investigation has been set up by Alice Bah Kuhnke, who is due to be completed this summer. We have also reinforced the work against hate crime by making hate crime a priority for the police and providing the means to make this possible in practice. Government employees are given the opportunity to develop human rights skills, and county boards' work in this area is strengthened. The provisions of the Discrimination Act on active measures have been amended since January 2017, which means that active measures, i.e. promotion and prevention measures to combat discrimination, in working life and in the field of education and training, must cover all grounds of discrimination in the Act. The exemption in the Non-availability Non-Discrimination Act has been removed. Accessibility is now a requirement for all traders, where possible. The Ombudsman for Discrimination has received a huge increase in funding in order to do a better job. We will also set up an investigation into how more effective sanctions can be imposed when someone violates the Non-Discrimination Act. For example, DO should be able to impose periodic penalty payments on those who violate the law. We have adopted a national plan against racism, similar forms of hostility and hate crime, and the Convention on the Rights of the Child becomes Swedish law. The Green Party wants to create a human and welcoming Sweden, where everyone can participate on their own terms. Today, discrimination and racism are part of many people's everyday lives. We want to counteract that. A society that gives up on the vision of being good for everyone is soon not good for anyone. The recruitment to right-wing and Nazi organizations must be broken. It requires effective work against the values that these organisations stand for, but also that we take steps to reduce their ability to operate in the public sphere without thereby also restricting democratic rights. That is why we want to review the law of order in order to increase the possibility of denying Nazi organisations a demonstration permit. We also want to review the law on incitement to ethnic groups with a view to prohibiting publicly wearing symbols associated with serious persecution and reviewing whether fire attacks on refugee residents can be investigated as terrorist offences. Madam President, I would like The government has done even more to combat discrimination, racism and more, but now we have no time to go through more. I support the committee's proposal.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-892	Madam President, I would like From one debate to the next – now we have a report from the Social Security Committee on the table, and it is about impact assessments for migration policy decisions. This report is based on a report from the Swedish National Audit Office, and that is why it is so thin and therefore there is no huge interest here. These reports often result in letters where the government says what it has done or has not done. Then they are added to the record, and there is no more about it. But the subject is very interesting: impact assessments in the area of migration policy. I can from the beginning be open and say what the National Audit Office said when they told us about their review. This is the first area where impact assessments have been mentioned. So there is nothing to say that this only applies to the area of migration. However, in this area it is very clear that no such analysis has been carried out. We all see the consequences of this on a daily basis. We have heard how representatives from all the other parties have talked in one way or another about how they have been naive and have not been able to predict what will happen and so on, in different ways. One has suddenly had to act in a situation that one did not know could arise. The Swedish democrats have not shared that view. We have been warning for many years. We have pointed out exactly the consequential effects that we have now also been able to see in our country. The interesting thing about the review from the Swedish National Audit Office is that it shows that the impact assessments that should have been carried out have not actually been carried out. Where analyses have been carried out, they have been substandard. The government responds to this by starting to look at the issue and now has better practices – pretty much. We from the Swedish Democrats chose to put forward a follow-up motion anyway, because we believe that there are other things that could be tightened up. An update of various regulations and manuals on how to work on this could be required. More explicit demands could be introduced, for example, to review volume discussions. What will be the consequences of this proposal? Is there such an analysis that could be carried out in advance? The possibility of an overall assessment could be reviewed. Every single proposal may not have huge external effects, but together they can have a great effect. We know that a large part of the migration that has come to Sweden has been due to the signals we have sent out. We have also heard this from government representatives: it is clear that the policy we have pursued has led people to come here. Therefore, I find it very interesting to read the committee's position, which justifies why we reject our proposals for concrete changes that could make it even clearer that this is an important step that we must not skip. On the one hand, it blames the EU and on the fact that EU regulations mean that we will not have time to make any major estimates of the impact a provision will have on migration. This is, of course, another sign that we are right on the European issue as well. Perhaps we should not allow migration, or so much else, to be dealt with at European level. It should of course be our country which sets the limits and which is responsible for controlling who is here and who is not, and who is entitled to it and who is not. It also says that the committee assumes that the government's work on developing impact assessments continues, and it is recalled that the design of regulations has a certain impact on migration to Sweden, but that it is mainly the situation in the outside world that affects people's migration. People are running from something, not to anything. Yeah, people run away from something. But, as we have said so many times in this committee, people are fleeing from something, but not at Sweden's borders. There is no emergency situation at Sweden's borders. What has led people to come here is wrong in the systems. These are the signals that Sweden sends out, both through the decisions we take in this House regarding what you get and what you don't get when you come here as an asylum migrant and through our way of making assessments. The policy we are pursuing has a real effect. We have also sent out signals by keeping life alive in systems that make it worthwhile to travel far, to use smugglers and to choose illegal routes to our part of the world, which is the only way to get here and take part of everything we promised. And we accept those roads. Even when we do not accept those roads – I have to lift this now because it is highly topical – we are giving new opportunities for people who have come here and have no reason for asylum to stay in the country. The idea that migration to Sweden would be due to people having a need to escape from something is simply not correct. This is not what it is about when it comes to migration to Sweden. It would have been true if we were to discuss only the design of the quota refugee system and what quota reception Sweden should have, but that is not what it is about. I therefore hope that as many people as possible will read what the committee actually says here. I hope that many people listen and take it to heart that the other parties think that with impact assessments it can be a little bit like that. Instead, the other parties feel that what is important is in the nice sense that, that people are fleeing from something, not into anything, even though it is actually that which keeps life in a totally unsustainable system.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-908	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the SfU28 report, the Swedish National Audit Office's report on impact assessments for migration policy decisions. I therefore also call for the only reservation on the matter, which is from the Swedish Democrats, to be rejected. This is a review covering the years 2004 to 2015. It is therefore the policy of two governments that the report touches upon. What emerges is, if I am going to sum up briefly, that the Swedish National Audit Office recommends that the Government Office ensures that impact assessments are produced according to the requirements that exist and also develops the quality of these analyses. These requirements can be found in various documents at the Government Office. The government reports its assessment of these observations in a letter, which we have heard from Paula Bieler, which we in the Social Security Committee have dealt with in our report. We have come to the conclusion that we in the Social Security Committee welcome the government's efforts to improve support and service to committees, special investigators and internally in the Government Office to increase the quality and efficiency of the work on impact assessments. So we see that the government has taken on board the criticism and says that it will continue to work on this. Impact assessments are central to achieving more effective rules. It is important that they are also of good quality. We agree in committee that the quality should be further increased and that the impact assessments should run in parallel with other work. This is also highlighted by the government in its letter. However, if the proposals are not, or only to a lesser extent, deemed to have an impact on migration, it can be considered to be of little value to consultation bodies, decision-makers and others concerned by the decisions to further develop impacts that are not expected to occur in areas other than financial ones. This is also something that has been highlighted and which we have supported in committee. Madam President, I would like EU regulations often come with very short implementation periods. This makes it difficult to carry out extensive comparative studies. This is what is said: It is the extensive comparative studies that are difficult to do because it is short-term. It is only after a period of application that it is possible to estimate the impact a provision can have on migration, as well as whether the design of the regulations has an impact on migration to Sweden. It is also mainly the situation in the outside world that affects why people migrate, as we have also heard the previous speaker highlight. There we have a different attitude in all the other parties than the Swedish Democrats. All parties except the Swedish Democrats are behind this, including the sentence "People are fleeing from something, not into anything." I would like to emphasise in particular that all parties except the Swedish Democrats support this formulation.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-916	Madam President, I would like First of all, let me say that we also support the sentence as such. I think the people who run away do it from something, not into anything. But when they are at the Swedish border, they no longer flee from anything but to something, or they travel to something, rather. We have no crisis in our immediate neighbourhood, and it is physically impossible to escape across the border to Sweden, because then you are not on the run. I missed a sentence in my brief speech, namely that it is only after a period of application of a provision that it is possible to estimate the impact that the provision may have on migration. That is precisely the problem. That is precisely why impact assessments should be carried out. You have to try to evaluate and review in advance. That is where you Social Democrats and all the other parties have broken catastrophically over the years. No impact assessments have been carried out. We have been able to see how the budget in this area has been increasing time and again, because it has not been calculated correctly. You haven't thought about the backsides of it all. That is why it is important to carry out impact assessments. That is why the Swedish National Audit Office's review is so telling. That is also why we on our part believe that we should do even more. The manuals should be even clearer and more explicitly updated. Make use of the opportunities to influence governance: Make it easier to make accurate impact assessments! It has to be expected that the volumes will be affected depending on the regulations we have. It must be included in the impact assessments. Finally, I will say something about this with the European Union. These are very short lead times. That is one of many reasons why I am critical of how Europe works. But we've actually made decisions sometimes. I will never accept that we are hasty and funny without evaluating them carrying out reforms that can have major consequences for Sweden while blaming the European Union.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-921	Madam President, I would like I do not quite understand how Paula Bieler reads the report and the letter. It does not say anywhere that the government should not carry out any impact assessments. What it says is to increase the quality of them. That is what is written both in the letter from the government and in our report. So it does not seem that we read the sentences in the same way. This also applies to the sentence that I mentioned: are people fleeing from something, not into anything. We do not have the same idea of what it is about, regardless of the limit. There we have completely different opinions, I can understand. I've understood that for a long time. Then there are comparative studies of EU regulations. It doesn't say that you shouldn't do any of those. On the other hand, it says that when there are short periods of implementation, extensive comparative studies cannot be carried out. Follow-ups and such things will of course be done. It is already being done now when decisions are made and when proposals, investigations and so on are being written. However, extensive comparative studies may be difficult to manage, because they are short implementation periods. So it is in no way a question of opposing this. We believe that impact assessments should be carried out, and they should be of good quality. I do not agree with what Paula Bieler says, that you do not care about what is stated in the Swedish National Audit Office's report, but I think that you have taken good note of it.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-926	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer, Carina Ohlsson! I think it can serve me more than the Social Democrats, if I may be so overly. Apparently, I'm in this line shift. No, it's not the same no matter what limit it's all about. On the contrary, the big difference depends precisely on the limit at issue. That's the big difference between us. I'm all in on people running. There's a huge need for escape in the world, unfortunately. The border at which the person is then is crucial for whether we help those who are on the run or those who have made use of illegal roads or criminal traffickers and have been able to afford to pay to get all the way here. This is what separates us. That is why I believe that this sentence is completely out of place in the report. We now heard that follow-ups are still to be carried out. I shall therefore come back to the sentence that it is difficult to make a proper estimate until after a period of application. Impact assessments must be carried out in advance. I want to see impact assessments on the table before we make laws. I want us to think before we make decisions that will affect developments in this country. That's where I mean you've broken, catastrophicly, for decades. That is what we are seeing in our society today. I wish you would think about it further and not hide behind it: Europe will sometimes force us to make decisions quickly. Then we won't have time to do extensive investigations before. Nah, we've been late getting started with EU legislation many times before. I think that a proper investigation in such an important area, for example, could be required. Again, I'm glad you do things. I am pleased to hear that impact assessments are important. But there's more to do. It's incomprehensible that you don't.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-932	Madam President, I would like No, I and the Social Democrats are not hiding behind this, but we are stating the facts: this is what it looks like, and therefore we do not always have time to carry out extensive investigations. You can look at Sweden as a whole. It is about when we get proposals for decisions here in Parliament, about the making of proposals and so on. I think that we in Sweden have a comprehensive system for the preparation of legislative proposals. These are investigations, committee activities and legal advice. I think that we have a well-functioning democracy in this way, and there is actually also the possibility of an opinion before it comes to a decision here in Parliament. I disagree with Paula Bieler there. Then, in the letter and in our report, the government has said that we should develop impact assessments even more. I think there is reason to do that. I can also mention that we are also looking at such issues in the Social Security Committee's evaluations. It is not, therefore, that we look lightly at the proposals made by the Swedish National Audit Office. In fact, we are taking them to heart and will do our utmost to make it even better, and we are going to conduct investigations. But this was precisely the case – whether it is extensive or not depending on time margins. I don't think we have anything to be ashamed of. We have also changed proposals because we have seen the consequences they have had. So I do not think that for decades it has been the wrong decision that has been taken here in Parliament. I think we have taken the consequences of the decisions that have been taken.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-936	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to express my support for reservations 1 and 2, although we have more reservations. Motion report Freedoms and rights, etc. consists of two sections this year: one on freedom and rights, one on the prevention of violent extremism, which belongs to our committee. On 4 June 1976, former party leader Gösta Bohman of the Moderates stood in the pulpit of the Riksdag, debating just freedom and rights. He, in turn, referred to Gösta Bagge and Fritiof Domös's motion on the incorporation into the constitution of certain fundamental principles of the present society, from 1938. Bohman stressed that it was no coincidence that the exercise was awakened at the time — a year before World War II. Bagge and Domö wrote that it was a matter of protecting society from the surprises of the temporary rulers who, in state after state on the European continent, overturned the principles of the rule of law and democracy all the way, and of Nazism and Stalinism, that is communism. The moderate motion was supported by a united parliament. In 1938, in 1976 and today, it is our fundamental task to work towards the principles of the rule of law and democracy, as well as the equal value and right of all people to freedom. Back to our report. In spring 2016, two announcements were made to the Government, on proposals to regulate the possibility for individual natural and legal persons to obtain damages from state or municipality in the event of a breach of the ECHR, and on an investigation to analyse the issue of damages in the event of a breach of constitutionally protected rights and freedoms in the form of government. Recently, a provision on damages for infringements of the ECHR was included in the Compensation Act. With regard to the second question, concerning damages in the event of a breach of the form of government, the Government has indicated its intention to set up an investigation to analyse and consider the matter during this year. The movements that the Moderates, individually or together, have written about rights and freedoms mainly concern the rights protection of one individual against another individual, a Committee on Property Rights and the Freedom of Trade, a common foundation of values, discrimination, a future review of the form of government, human rights in the EU and the withdrawal of citizenship. We believe that the state should have an obligation to protect individuals from violations of human rights and freedoms by other individuals. This is in line with the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. We think it would be useful for this to be regulated in the second chapter of the government form, for it to be stated that the state has an obligation to protect individuals in a similar way, as a reminder to the legislator and a signal to all those living in Sweden. We also believe that a Freedom of Property and Trade Commission should be set up to identify threats to and restrictions on ownership and freedom to conduct a business. It is easier to restrict these rights and freedoms than others when the limitation rules and the rules on suspension in the second chapter of the government form do not apply to them. Then we highlight the importance of values in terms of democracy and human rights, including gender equality, and not least the work against honour-related violence and repression. In addition, there is a lack of rules that allow Swedish citizenship to be revoked, for example, when someone commits a crime that is seriously detrimental to the vital interests of the state, such as terrorist offences. This distinguishes us from countries such as Germany, Denmark and Finland. Legislation is also under way in Norway. There are reasons to change this in Sweden as well. For example, if you have dual citizenship and commit terrorist offences, you should in some cases be able to have your Swedish citizenship withdrawn. Madam President, I would like On Friday 7 April 2017, the Constitutional Committee held meetings and hearings of two ministers. An hour later and a few hundred meters away, on Drottninggatan, what was not allowed to happen happened. An assailant, inspired by violent Islamist extremism, drove at high speed a stolen truck down the street. Five people were killed. Even more were injured, and many people live with terrible memories of this attack. The violent extremist environments in Sweden consist of some 3,000 threat actors. Of them, more than 2 000 are violent Islamic extremists, while the rest are in the White Power movement and autonomous environments. This was said by former Chief Security Officer Anders Thornberg at a seminar in Almedalen last year, and it is also written in the Säpo Yearbook for 2017. Making society more resistant to violent extremism is fundamental. In addition to the efforts of the judicial system, which mainly concerns the Committee on Justice, there is a need for successful prevention. On 7 June 2017, an agreement was reached on counter-terrorism measures between the government parties and the Alliance. The agreement is based on the previous December 2015 agreement. The agreement concerns, among other things, strengthened cooperation between the Swedish Security Service and the Migration Agency, national response teams against extremism and a confidentiality-breaking provision for the police and the municipality. In the Constitutional Committee, we have repeatedly tried to conduct constructive talks across block borders, which have led to a number of announcements. I would like to emphasise that this year too the committee has agreed on an announcement, on the mobilisation of good forces in civil society and the business community to counter violent extremism and radicalisation, especially in digital environments, and on a national communication strategy against violent extremism and for democratic values in accordance with the Moderate and Christian Democrats' motion. It is important that various communicators spread positive messages about democracy and our fundamental values, against the worldview of extremists. The state is often not a sufficiently effective sender of arguments against extremism and for freedom and democracy. Instead, civil society and businesses need to be mobilised. In addition, the Moderates have written motions on, among other things, the responsibility of municipalities and foreign contributions to religious communities. In order for the work to combat radicalisation and violent extremism to be taken very seriously and given the necessary weight for long-term success, we believe that responsibility for this work should be at the highest level in the municipalities. Then we want a clearer picture of foreign contributions to religious communities and the extent to which they are associated with conditions of different kinds. We want the government to initiate a review of this. Madam President, I would like Democracy, the principles of the rule of law, the equal value of all people and the right to freedom are central issues today as well as in 1938 and 1976. Preventing violent extremism and terror that can cause great harm to innocent people is one of the most important issues of society and of our time.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-954	Madam President, I would like This report contains no less than 22 reservations and three specific opinions, and I am pleased to note that the Swedish Democrats have been able to reach agreement with the other parties in one or perhaps even one and a half reservations. I'll get back to what I mean by that. We can begin with reservation 22 on foreign contributions to religions. In Sweden and the rest of the Western world we have a problem linked to Islam in general and Islamism in particular. The problem with Islam is that it affirms values that do not fit in Swedish society. The problem with Islamism is that it turns into policies that are often just violent. The Swedish Democrats were absolutely the first to point out these problems. After that, other parties have partly chosen to join, and this is of course welcome. Madam President, I would like With Islam's entry into Sweden, its worst branch was included: wahhabism. This is even for Islam a very extreme interpretation of faith, and so is the dominant religion in rich Saudi Arabia. This interpretation of Islam is probably also spread in many mosques around Sweden. It is now unknown to what extent Muslim religions in Sweden receive foreign contributions and to what extent these contributions are associated with conditions of different kinds. Some studies carried out in other European countries suggest that, among other things, Turkey and Saudi Arabia are contributing to religious communities operating across Europe. On the other hand, no systematic comprehensive study has been carried out. In order to get a clearer picture of this and thus better assess whether such contributions pose a significant problem, we believe that the government should initiate a review of how many Swedish faiths receive foreign grants and what amounts, purposes and, above all, conditions may exist. As far as the half of the reservation is concerned, Madam President, there are cases where people lie or bribe officials in order to obtain a residence permit and later also citizenship in Sweden. Furthermore, individuals go to participate in foreign forces in a way that is contrary to international law or Sweden's interests, such as terrorism. The Swedish Democrats believe that wrongly acquired or obviously used citizenship should be withdrawn, even if this means that such a person could actually become stateless. Those convicted of terrorist offences should always be able to have their Swedish citizenship withdrawn, not only when the person has dual citizenship, but also if it makes a person stateless. Any person who receives a citizenship or residence permit on false grounds, for example by lying about his or her identity or other conditions, shall immediately have them annulled and expelled from the country as a result. This is something that the Swedish Democrats have been pushing for a long time and that the Moderates now, after many years of thinking, at least partially agree with. The Moderates state in their reservation that they want to investigate the issue of withdrawing citizenship if someone has received it because of threats or bribes or if they are convicted of terrorist crimes. What really separates us is that the Moderates only want to investigate the issue, at least initially, this despite the fact that there are already several investigations. Therefore, I would like to extend a hand to Marta Obminska and the Moderates: let us discuss this issue together and come back with a joint proposal to Parliament next year. The Christian Democrats are also welcome, of course, because they too want to withdraw their citizenship when it is obvious that a person has received it through bribery or bribery. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say something about the prayer eutrope. There we in the Swedish Democrats have a clear line: SD wants to ban prayer eutrope from religious buildings. On April 26, 2013, the first prayer euthrope sounded from the 32 meter high minaret in the mosque located in Fittja. It was, as I have been able to find, also the first prayer eutropic ever from a mosque on Swedish soil. The decision to allow prayer eutrope in Fittja will probably have a precedent for other municipalities in our country, and similar wishes have already been expressed by other Muslim organisations around Sweden. Therefore, the matter should also be dealt with in the Riksdag. Belief is, and should be, a private matter between the individual and his or her god or gods. If a religious group wants to put its message in public place, it is also reasonable for them to be presumed to act as other groups in society, namely by seeking a police permit for the case in question. Here the Christian Democrats have stated in a special statement that they are against institutionalized and recurring prayer euthropists that people cannot escape in their homes. Regularly proclaiming a religion over and into people's homes is something other than church bells, which are also part of our tradition and a cultural custom. I think this is a sound attitude from the Christian Democrats and a well-formulated wording, and I hope that we will be able to find a common position on this issue in the future. Madam President, I would like With that, I would like to move on to a few issues where we in the Swedish Democrats are so far alone. I will dwell on Islam for a moment. Latvia decided in 2016 to introduce a ban on comprehensive Muslim veil in public places. In 2010, France chose to impose a similar ban. However, it was not only forbidden to cover the veil in public places, but also decided that husbands who force their wives or daughters to wear a complete veil could be sentenced to heavy fines and even imprisonment. In addition, as a direct consequence of the Islamic terrorist attacks in France in 2016, several French towns in the south of France chose to impose local bans on covering beach upholstery with religious pronunciation. For us Swedish democrats, it is of the utmost importance that we defend our democratic, cultural and secular values against any attempt to combat them. One part of this is that we ban the comprehensive and women's oppressive veil in all public places. This is also adjacent to the subject of integration. Today it is stated that the public should promote minorities' own culture and community life in Sweden. In our opinion, this is particularly unfortunate as it does not comply with the principle of assimilation of immigrants in Sweden rather than integration. Such cultural exceptions should be reserved only for Sweden's five recognised national minorities. Furthermore, we believe that the regulation in relation to discrimination is unfortunate, because it risks more being excluded than included and easily leads to a reasoning that lands in that everyone is equal but some are a little more equal than others. The legislation we have against discrimination should therefore be amended to cover everyone to the same extent and with the same protection.
i-MR7GzJGAT1bC4Bfu9hLCE8	Madam President, I would like Our report by the Constitutional Committee responds to some sixty requests for exercise from the 2016 and 2017 general period of exercise. Almost all are rejected, but some of the KUs have been added as a basis for a announcement on national coordination and a national communication strategy. The basis for the announcement is motions for a concrete action plan for prevention and a national communication plan against radicalisation and terrorism. These are proposals from alliance parties supported by the Center Party and supported by the government parties in the KU – hence the announcement. The Center Party also supports a motion for a Rights and Trade Commission to identify threats and restrictions to property rights and the freedom to conduct a business. We want to strengthen the legal protection of freedom of ownership and business. This has led to a joint alliance reservation in the KU, as the alliance parties have not received support for this request from the other parties. The section of the report on human rights in the EU deals with a request from the Party Movement of the Center Party that Sweden push for the EU to be a guarantor of democracy, the rule of law and human rights and that Member States should not be allowed to violate these fundamental principles. In an alliance reservation, we highlight the worrying developments in EU countries such as Hungary, Poland and Romania and the demands we want to make on the EU. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal for a declaration and for the Alliance's reservation 2.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-980	Madam President, I would like So, as has been said by the speaker, we are discussing report KU34 Freedoms and Rights, and so on. I can see that there is quite a lot of energy spent on more and in some cases very little on rights and freedoms, rather more on various forms of restrictions and repression, what clothes people should wear and the like. We in the Left Party think it is important that you have to choose it yourself. It is part of freedom and rights. I will therefore highlight only one reservation here. I take one who deals with human rights in the EU and the rights of LGBT people. I support our Amendment No 18. In many EU Member States, there is still a very widespread discrimination against LGBT people, and in many countries the situation is constantly getting worse. There are also restrictions on the rights and freedoms of the free word and all that. We know that; we talk about that a lot and often. But as for people belonging to the LGBTQ and transgender group, things are getting worse and worse in a lot of places. It has become clear in recent years that EU membership is not at all a guarantee that people will avoid discrimination. It is important to point out that discrimination based on sexuality and gender identity is not compatible with EU membership. Many countries are deteriorating their regulatory frameworks and are increasingly discriminating after joining. It has had a higher bar, then it joins the EU and then worsens the situation. Our view is that it should have consequences for individual Member States who choose to restrict the rights of their citizens. We should look at the possibility of taking action against those Member States that fail to comply with the human rights that underpin European Union membership. We believe that we must act decisively and put more pressure on it. That is why, as I said, I am in favour of reservation 18.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-985	Madam President, I would like I suspected that a number of the speakers would focus primarily on the part of the report relating precisely to the prevention of violent extremism, because it is a subject on which the committee has been closely involved, both in last year's report on the prevention of violent extremism, with four announcements, and also this year when we are following the same line. It is therefore a very committed and driving committee that takes the question of how to make society more resistant to violent extremism in the most serious way and how to protect democracy. In addition to this, I would like to refer to the proposals made by the Liberals on, for example, the strengthening of legislation against terrorist travel and financing, the criminalisation of enlistment or sedition in support of terrorist activities via social media, the extension of the crimes covered by the Terrorist Crimes Act and the increase in resources against terrorism, extremism and more. In doing so, I will focus on the part of the report that concerns rights and freedoms. For a liberal, it is some of the most beautiful words that exist and also those that form the basis of my political commitment. That should be something that could easily be agreed, for who does not want both freedom and rights? But as you know, it's not that simple. In this report, the committee comes up with the question of where and how to draw the limit for where my rights end so that the rights of others can be upheld. Where is the line between freedom of religion and freedom from religion? Where is the line between own ownership and joint ownership? How do we protect the rights and freedoms of minorities without squeezing the majority society? How are we to ensure that the rights and freedoms that we believe our Swedish citizens should be guaranteed are also guaranteed to all EU citizens? We liberals are sometimes called split because we often reason from several different angles. It may then be unclear where we stand, and I understand that. At the same time, however, it is actually a perspective that more people should take on several of the issues in this report. Prayer calls can be perceived as disturbing. It can also be said that it is not just any sound, as it calls for a certain religion. But is it really such a big interference in the freedom of people's everyday lives that we should make general decisions in the Swedish parliament against this? I don't think so. I think it is a decision that can be handled on the ground with good sense and existing laws, if there is a will. Another issue of the report, the issue of discrimination, I think we are all against. Discrimination should all be against. But when you look at what the different parties put in the concept, you see that there are big differences. While, in simple terms, I believe that we have a law of discrimination that will enable all individuals to assert their right and individuality, that they should have as equal opportunities and rights as possible regardless of gender, transgender identity or expression, ethnicity, religion, disability, sexual orientation and age, there are some who believe that we do not need to take into account at least some of these grounds of discrimination, because the most important thing seems to be to adapt, to be part of it all. I believe that such an approach is a way that is frighteningly similar to the views of totalitarian states on people, and I firmly argue that our anti-discrimination legislation is an important tool for a better society and a sustainable democracy. Madam President, I would like Membership of the European Union, which the Liberals hold so strongly, is not in itself a guarantee that fundamental rights and freedoms are always respected. Indeed, the EU lacks effective tools to counter human rights violations when committed by the Member States themselves. That is why we need a stronger right mechanism in Europe. Liberals have therefore long believed that Sweden must act decisively to create a human rights mechanism that has clear implications for those Member States that do not guarantee or even themselves commit violations of citizens' fundamental rights and freedoms. The Commission needs to be able to bring a Member State before the European Court of Justice for violations of the fundamental values listed in the Treaty of Lisbon with severe sanctions such as freezing EU funds or withdrawing voting rights in the Council. The price should be high for those who violate the fundamental values of the Union, just as it is today against those who defy the Union's economic acquis. We need to uphold the principles of the rule of law. It is not a question of pointing the finger or acting in a way that is wiser, but of living up to the intentions of this report not only in Sweden but also in the European Union. Madam President, I would like I support all the L-motions as well as the joint alliance movements that the Liberals are also working for. However, on behalf of the House's patience, I only call for reservation 17 on human rights in the European Union.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-997	Madam President, I would like I think I forgot to endorse my reservations in my introductory statement, so I would like to take this opportunity to ask for the approval of reservations 7 and 10 so that I can have it on the record. Tina Acketoft highlights an important issue when she talks about discrimination. It is a debate that I would like to recall that we have also had at some previous time. Tina Acketoft says that it is important that all people are covered by the Discrimination Act. And there, Madam President, we are in fact in complete agreement. But I understand that it was us to whom you referred, even if you did not mention us by name, when you spoke about the view on the discrimination law and the grounds of discrimination contained in our constitution. The difference is that we want to remove the list that exists today. Today there is a system with a long list of different grounds for discrimination. It speaks in the form of government of gender, colour, national or ethnic origin, linguistic or religious affiliation, disability, sexual orientation, age or other circumstances. What we are talking about is any form of unfair discrimination, and it does involve everyone. Then there is no danger of getting into a line of reasoning such as the one I mentioned in my speech that everyone is equal, but some are more equal than others. Could this not be a better solution, so that we have an equal and equal form of discrimination law and also a form of government?
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-1001	Madam President, I would like At the risk of making this my shortest post ever: No, it does not solve the problem. I would say, rather, that the Swedish Democrats are contributing to a much greater problem by lifting all grounds for discrimination and, instead, creating a single major type of discrimination. In what way would it improve the situation of those who come from other countries, have a different culture and want to become part of Sweden but are met by people who believe that they do not have as much rights because they do not look and behave like native Swedes? In what way would Jonas Millard's proposal for discrimination legislation solve it?
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-1003	Madam President, I would like I could make this my shortest response ever by replying: it is better because it simply covers everyone according to the same conditions and completely equivalent. This is clearly something that is not shared by the Liberals. Instead, they are advocating, together with the other parties, a regime with a long list of grounds for discrimination, which means that people who do not fall under these grounds of discrimination are in danger of not being hit by the legislation we have in this area. Our solution is simple. It is a question of passing a law against unfair discrimination which applies to everyone according to the same yardstick. It is only to be noted that here we are also different from the Liberals.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-1006	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats never deny themselves. Your solutions are simple because your problems are simple. Whoever brings in the whole picture realizes it's not that easy. Nothing is white or black. The only thing that is white or black is that all people have the same rights and the same value. You can't blur on that. What you're trying to do is find a small opening where you can suggest that you want something good when the only thing you really want is to point others out as different. That's all you want. No, there are no simple solutions, because they are not simple problems. You have to be bold enough to see that the coin has two sides. Discrimination legislation must contain specific grounds for people not to fall between the seats. Jonas Millard can shake his head all he wants, but that's the way it is.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-1010	Madam President, I would like The report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs (KU34) deals with freedom and rights. It may seem to be a report among a great many this spring, but it is very urgent. Our parties have put us as members of the KU in order for us to guard our constitutions and, in particular, the constitution, the form of government that defines human rights and puts them in words. We're guardians of them. We should not limit and cut it, but should stand as guarantors and defend human rights. It gives us the mandate of our form of government, but also of the European Convention, which has the status of constitutional law. In the report, however, we are trying to discuss the problem of border drawing, because we are not so naive that we do not know that there are limits and that we have to specify when it is reasonable and unreasonable to maintain a certain position. Let me briefly comment on some of the reservations that the Christian Democrats have in addition to all that we agree on in committee. Reservation 2 is about us wanting a Freedom of Property and Trade Commission. The other alliance parties also support this reservation, and I call for it to be approved, Madam President. Together with the Moderates and Centers we have reservation 3 about a common value base. The basis of values is not self-evident but must be discussed, but we say in the reservation text that it is about the equal value of all people, the right of everyone to life and freedom, the importance of a functioning rule of law, the right to have a religion and to refrain from having a religion and so on. We are developing this quite properly. The Christian Democrats have their own reservation, No 16, on a Commission of Values. We think that in the Norwegian way they gather across party boundaries with various social representatives, ethics and experts in law and for a long time work through a common foundation of values. Much has already been said today, for example in the school curriculum, which has a fairly developed value base. But one could develop one for the use of the whole community. Let me also mention such a difficult demarcation, and that is the withdrawal of citizenship. Of course, we do not want anyone to be without citizenship. However, in reservation 11, the Christian Democrats believe that when it is obvious that a person has acquired Swedish citizenship through bribery or bribery, it should be possible by means of a constitutional amendment for a court to withdraw citizenship. In this case, the burden of responsibility lies with the authority. We have been very moderate and we fully understand the problem. However, it is not reasonable that you get your Swedish citizenship through bribery or bribery. We want to see a future review of the form of government. It is dealt with in reservation 14, which we share with the Moderates and Centers. We believe that there is reason to consider whether more rights and freedoms, such as property rights and the freedom to conduct a business, should be covered by the restriction rules in Chapter 2. Section 21 of the form of government. In an alliance reservation, No 17, we are raising human rights in the EU. Others have developed it, so I pass it here. Let me mention reservation 21 on the responsibility of municipalities for terrorists and for countering radicalisation and violent extremism, and that responsibility for this work should be at the highest political level in the municipalities. It is important to talk about which underlying factors exist for radicalisation and for anti-Semitism and other forms of racism and also to exchange good examples with each other in order to shape strategies. In reservation 22, which we have in common with the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, there is talk about the financing of mosques, for example. In order to obtain a clearer picture and thus better assess whether such contributions pose a significant problem, the Government should initiate a review of how many Swedish faiths receive foreign grants and what amounts, purposes and conditions occur. This is dangerously close to freedom of association, and it must not be done in a way that violates the right of association. However, it must not be as in Germany where there have been problems with financing from Turkey and Saudi Arabia and where a gift from a mosque is conditional on having an imam from the donor country and that what the imam says is controlled from abroad. At least this has been the case, and we want to ensure that this is not the case. Then we come to the rather burning question of prayereutrope. What can and can't be said about prayer eutrope from the minaret? At first, freedom of religion cannot be restricted. It is important to lay it as a foundation. Freedom of religion exists in our form of government and is the only freedom and rights that cannot be limited. This does not mean that everything can be defended with freedom of religion, but it cannot in fact be limited. If, however, we want to discuss the limits of freedom of religion, it is more about regulations, municipal building and action plans and so on. In a special opinion – not a reservation, as the Swedish Democrats have done – the Christian Democrats have given some thoughts in order to be able to relate to the prayer eutrope. We write there: The freedom of religion and association is constitutionally established by the provisions of Chapter 2. the form of government. Everyone has the freedom to join others for general or individual purposes, and the freedom to practice his religion alone or with others. No one should be discredited because of their faith. Torture meetings and other manifestations should be allowed according to today's rules; prayer eutrope should be assessed in the same way. However, with regard to institutionalised and frequent prayer euthropy into people's homes, I believe that there is reason to discuss borders. It is, of course, desirable for different communities, municipalities and relevant authorities to engage in dialogue in order to reach a solution with regard to prayer eutropic that is sustainable and good for all parties. However, if this fails and the question is raised at its head, I would like to remind you that the Christian Democrats are against institutionalised and recurring prayer euthropists that people cannot escape in their homes. Regularly proclaiming a religion over and into people's homes is something other than church bells, which are also part of our tradition and a cultural custom. The Christian Democrats have therefore called on the party representatives at municipal level to reject applications for recurring and institutionalized prayer euthropists that people cannot escape in their homes. The Christian Democrats are working for a society that promotes integration and cohesion. Institutionalized and recurring prayer eutrope does not promote that work. ..................................................... There, I mean, I and the Christian Democrats are saying what can be said at the borderline, but no more than that. Freedom of religion cannot be limited. On the other hand, trumpeting one's own religion — whatever religion it may be — into people's homes must go beyond what is reasonable and acceptable.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-1029	Madam President, I would like We continue to debate the KU's report, the KU34 Freedoms and Rights. The committee has put a lot of time and energy into the report. It is prepared twice as many times, I think, as a regular report. We take human rights issues very seriously in committee, and I think that is a good thing. The issue of human rights was, as with Tina Acketoft, one of the reasons why I became politically involved – how society was organized and how it actually oppressed people at that time and maybe to some extent still does, how people like me at that time had less rights than my friends, how I saw that those who came from other countries were subjected to oppression and racism and how those who were girls were discriminated against solely because of it. All of this is in the report. In a way, it is amazing what Parliament we have, which wants to solve people's problems, protect their freedoms and extend their rights in large parts. As I said, we have taken all of this very seriously. I would like to thank the committee, and I support the committee's proposal. We have dealt with many issues related to violent extremism. This has been the case in the past, but I would like to say that I think it is a good thing that we can continue to maintain the consensus on these issues that has been established for a long time. This feels safe and good for the future. I hope that we can continue to do so, even if it means sending out a number of announcements to our government, because it strengthens us and makes policy credible that we are able to resolve sometimes rather difficult issues in a respectful manner in talks over the table. When I listened to the debate, I went along with a few things that were said. We have heard of Islam's entry into Sweden, such as being exposed to some form of invasion. Nothing could be more wrong. In Sweden many people live with many different types of faith, and that is good. Faith should be valued and appreciated. It contributes to the development of our society and ensures that people have some kind of context and confidence in the future, and that is good. If it then happens to be Christianity, Buddhism or Islam, I do not think we should place any emphasis on it, and this is also prohibited by our constitution. Pointing out Islam as a religion in relation to others feels very strange, and I do not really understand the purpose. Or, yes, of course I understand the purpose: You want to suspect and ridicule a group that you don't like and that you don't think belongs to. I think it is terrible when you have such rhetoric. The issue of discrimination has also been mentioned here. We must recognise that society is characterised by standards and by subordination and subordination. That is what we need to break, and that is why we need to identify which groups we are dealing with. We must dare to say that women suffer from oppression in society and that this discriminates. If we have not identified it will be the act that a woman may be exposed to something else. Then it becomes only the action itself, and you miss the whole idea of power and authority that is involved. The same applies to many of the other grounds of discrimination. Here I think we are approaching what is at the core. We have a party in this Parliament that is based on and has the business idea of wanting to oppress others. That is what this issue is about, nothing else. Everything else is a lie and a bow. I am pleased that we are in broad agreement that Europe must improve. We have a few different approaches to the way forward. The EU has a great responsibility. We see that countries such as Poland and Hungary are impoverishing their rule of law. We see how, in election campaign after election campaign, breast tones are used against one group or another. We see how to marginalise the free press and the media. Everything is aimed at strengthening one's own power and influence, and this is not okay. Here the EU needs to strengthen its tools to get to it, but it also needs to have the courage to make use of what it has. There I might think that you've been a little coward over the years. I will stop there and thank the committee for its good cooperation. Once again, I support the committee's proposal.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-1042	Madam President, I would like I couldn't help but push myself into the debate once again when Jonas Gunnarsson from the Social Democrats said from the Parliament's pulpit that Sweden's third largest party lives on the business idea of appreciating other people. Jonas Gunnarsson knows very well that this is not true, or he deliberately or unconsciously chooses to misinterpret what I said in my speech just now. It is interesting that when we have a discussion or debate on discrimination, you raise the Swedish Democrats' proposals in this area almost as some kind of horror example. You did not mention that word explicitly, but let me once again clarify what the Swedish Democrats actually want to do. Today, in our form of government and in our anti-discrimination law, we have a long list of grounds for discrimination. There is, of course, a risk that this list of grounds for discrimination in one law actually excludes more than one includes. I can agree with Jonas Gunnarsson that it is clear that there is discrimination and that there are groups that are more vulnerable than others. But it does not solve any problems to explicitly point to certain groups. On the basis of the systematic approach that I and my party are advocating, the problem is solved by saying that everyone is equal under the law of discrimination and government and that no undue discrimination should be allowed. How can it be a worse alternative, Jonas Gunnarsson?
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-1047	Madam President, I would like So here we have a representative of a party formed by a bunch of skinheads, Nazis and other loose people on the far right who are trying to say that the business idea is not to treat people differently. It's gonna be a little laughable. Discrimination and the recognition of what discrimination is is based on the fact that there are people and groups in society who are treated badly or differently simply because they belong to that group and that that group is subordinate to some form of majority. That is the case in this case with our grounds for discrimination. It's about people who can have some kind of functional variation, it's about gender, it's about transgender people and it's about LGBTQ people in general. Here, society has traditionally limited these people's freedom through legislation and also through attitudes and standards. In fact, removing these grounds for discrimination would be to claim that the suffering suffered by these people and groups because of the oppression suffered by the majority does not exist without it being an event like any other in the event of anything. We can't have that. We must dare to recognise the power regimes that still exist in this society.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-1050	Madam President, I would like It is almost entertaining sometimes when you listen to this debate and hear the Social Democrats stand and talk about the dark history of the Swedish Democrats. I think most people have learned that it was not at least the Swedish Democrats who wanted to give the Adolf Hitler Nobel Prize or, for that matter, introduce the Rasbiological Institute. There was another party that wanted to do it. Of course, it can be argued that this is a long way back. And I think it does. I do not believe that the Socialist Party today wants to do these things. As another politician has said, I think we need more adults in politics after all. But then we can't stand here and do this either. We must at some point start discussing our political proposals for what they actually are. Then it is not good enough to stand and call each other ugly things, to use the ugly epithet and refer to historical things that may be far back in time. Then I could stand and ralli over Jonas Gunnarsson's party for a long time. But I have too little time at my disposal, so I'm letting this go. But, as I said, I think you should be careful to throw stones in glass houses. I think we should take the discussion and the political debate instead. Jonas Gunnarsson clearly does not think that the Swedish democrats' solution to discrimination is good. Neither does any other party. We alone are behind this reservation. It will rather be a rhetorical question, as Jonas Gunnarsson and others point out that there are groups that are particularly worthy of protection. Of course it does. However, there are groups which I would still like to argue are particularly worthy of protection but which are not covered by the law. What happens to these groups? Why, then, is it not better for everyone to be able to benefit from the protection that the Anti-Discrimination Act and our form of government actually include? Then we could use the concept of unfair discrimination. It is a term used in other legal texts. We could overcome this, and we would have a much more equal discrimination law. I regret that Jonas Gunnarsson and the other parties are unfortunately opposed to this.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-1055	Madam President, I would like My party has made a deal with its history. What Jonas Millard is talking about is what happened some 100 years ago, while what I mention about the Swedish Democrats happened during my teens. So there are some perspectives on things here. I am not talking about what happened before the Second World War, but I am talking about what actually happened in the 1990s. The Swedish democrats have not yet taken responsibility for this, and they are not yet doing so today. When I listen to Jonas Millard, I understand that he has not understood the concept of what discrimination actually means and that there is a subordination and subordination in society that we want to break. That is what this is all about. It is not a matter of someone being mistreated at the pub, in the housing queue or whatever it may be. It's about being mistreated because of who you are. That's when there's discrimination. They don't want to understand that. I cannot interpret it in any other way than that they actually want an excuse for continuing to discriminate or that they simply have not grasped the concept. Jonas Millard says we're missing groups. But he hasn't mentioned a single group that we've missed. During all the years that the Swedish Democrats have been in Parliament, we have not seen any motion on which groups they think would be disadvantaged or missing. I find that very strange. There will be a gleam of ridicule over the proposals, and I can only say that the Swedish Democrats are the same old Swedish democrats as we have always had.
i-57bdfb72f2e6bb96-1058	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the Constitutional Committee's report 34 on freedom and rights. It is a motion report with more than 60 requests for exercise from the general exercise times of the last two years. Our rights and freedoms are protected by the form of government, which states, among other things, that public power should be exercised with respect for the equal value of all people and for the freedom and dignity of the individual. These are words that sound simple and natural, but they may need to be pointed out so often. Sometimes our brains can play a prank when it's natural that we get scared or worried about what looks different. But fear is not a good starting point for rational decisions. That is why it is not only we in Sweden that have shaped this in our constitutions, but similar wordings are found in the UN Charter of Human Rights, in the European Convention and in the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights. These are fundamental rights such as freedom of expression, information, assembly, demonstration and, not least, after listening to today's debate, freedom of religion. These are fundamental pieces of the puzzle in our democracy and have been something that many have had to fight for over the years. It really hasn't been obvious. I myself am deeply grateful for all those who fought for universal and equal suffrage and who paved the way for me as a woman this much over 100 years later to stand here in the pulpit of the Riksdag. It is important to remember, perhaps especially this year when we are entering into the start of the 100th anniversary of our democracy. The KU has debated rights and freedoms once before during its term of office, and we then proposed two announcements. Both were about damages. Among other things, the government should return to Parliament with a proposal for damages if the state or municipality has violated the European Convention. The answer to this announcement has come, and such a system came into force just over a month ago – on 1 April 2018. The Government has also stated that it intends to set up an investigation in 2018 to analyse the issue of damages in the event of violation of constitutionally protected rights and freedoms. This is a response to the second announcement. In parallel, the government has also set up an investigation under the leadership of Lise Berg to investigate a new human rights authority. Madam President, I would like The Constitutional Committee's report 34 also deals with a major section on violent extremism. There, the committee proposes a declaration on national coordination and a national communication strategy. This is to be added to the very long list of measures taken by the government together with the opposition in recent years. Madam President, I would like I would like to thank my colleagues in the KU for their good cooperation and to support the committee's proposal.
