i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-7	Mr President, I would like to Jeff Ahl has asked me if I am prepared, on behalf of the Swedish Government, to apologise to Hungary and Viktor Orbán and thank Hungary for acting in time to stop parts of the migration. The European Commission has initiated infringement proceedings against Hungary, as it considers that its asylum legislation does not comply with the EU acquis. Nor can Sweden transfer asylum seekers under the Dublin Regulation because of the Hungarian asylum legislation. The Hungarian Government has also carried out information campaigns on migration, informing Hungarian citizens of the alleged negative effects of immigration on the country's economy, jobs, culture and traditions. In addition, the Hungarian Government has continued to campaign with strong messages and present laws challenging the right to asylum. The government's continued position is that it is important that all EU Member States act in solidarity and help each other when the asylum systems are under great pressure. We therefore find it unacceptable that, despite the fact that the Court of Justice of the European Union has rejected, among other things, Hungary's action against the 2015 redistributive decision, Hungary has continued to refuse to accept people on the run. The government will continue to be an important voice in Europe to safeguard the right to asylum and a sustainable migration policy.
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-11	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Foreign Affairs is clear that instead of apologizing, the government will continue to take an unreasonable tone towards Hungary. The Swedish government blames Hungary without foundation for acting inhumanely, even though it has only stood up for its right as a sovereign nation state to protect its borders and its people from the abuses of group rape, terrorism, gang crime, wage dumping and social misery to which mass immigration and multiculturalism contribute. The new party Alternatives for Sweden is opposed to the approach that the government has chosen to take. Viktor Orbán enjoys strong popular support. He has again gained his own majority, and he is doing something that few political leaders have managed to achieve: His support is increasing, even though he has been in government. His legitimacy as a democratically elected leader is therefore very strong. Sweden's feminist minority government has demonstrated with the greatest clarity whose side it stands on in its foreign policy. Our feminist government criticises Viktor Orbán for protecting Hungarian women from the anti-female cultures that knocked on the door of Hungary in 2015. What our feminist government also refuses to tell the Swedish people is that Hungary's exemplary action to close the border in time and establish a solid border protection has meant that the number of fortune seekers who made it to Sweden during the mass migration wave in 2015 was fewer than they had otherwise become. In my Europe, we are not building walls," said the Prime Minister during one of his plaza meetings. Only a while later, Sweden established border controls in order to put an end to the elusive mass immigration wave. The hypocrisy is total. Let me give you what the early President of the European Parliament said in connection with Brexit: The British have restated the Rules. It is not the EU 中 s philosophy that the crowd can decide its fate. In Swedish: The British have broken the rules. It is not the philosophy of the European Union that the mob should decide its own fate. Mr President, I would like to Here the EU is showing its undemocratic approach; this Europe for which the government and the Foreign Minister are turning their backs and which is jointly attacking a sovereign democratic country whose leaders represent the will of their people. It is quite simply shameful, and on behalf of the whole party Alternatives on behalf of Sweden, I would like to address Viktor Orbán and the Hungarian people and thank them for the fact that Hungary acted prudently, unlike the Swedish Government. The new, strongly growing party Alternatives for Sweden also, unlike the government, want to start talking about mass return of system-burdening immigrants to their respective home countries. We find it regrettable that, instead of sending them home, the government wants to force them on other European countries.
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-18	Mr President, I would like to The Government's objective is to ensure a long-term sustainable migration policy that both safeguards the right of asylum and deepens European and international cooperation. For those who need protection to have it and for us to have a workable and sustainable asylum and migration policy, the European Union must work together. At the moment, Hungary is counteracting cooperation by failing to shoulder its responsibilities either in the redistribution of asylum seekers or in finding a sustainable solution to future refugee flows. Sweden has taken a number of measures to deal with the large number of asylum seekers who came to Sweden in 2015. The measures are partly about Sweden not being able to have much more generous rules than other countries in the EU, but that we continue to take our responsibility to protect those who need protection. Unlike many other EU countries, Sweden has fulfilled its redeployment commitment and has increased the number of resettlements.
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-21	Mr President, I would like to I still find it regrettable that, as the government and the EU do, they criticise a sovereign country, as Hungary is, when it takes the measures it considers necessary to protect the border. The government itself has referred to the extension of border controls with regard to national security. Hungary has at least as much right to decide how to protect and protect its border as Sweden has to protect and protect its. This is where I think hypocrisy lies, that is to say that it criticises Hungary on incorrect or loose grounds. In fact, it is not so much about immigration or redistribution, but it is about Hungary resisting the ongoing federalisation of the European Union – which the current government also supports, albeit in secret. It is also remarkable that the Swedish Government is sending a minister to Hungary during the current elections. Isn't that what everyone's talking about, that is, influence surgery? It affects the general elections of another country. It is a little strange to send down someone who is actually in government during a general election. If a party sends someone who is a member of the party to support a sister party is probably one thing, but it is serious when you send a person who is actually in government. I and my party regard the rejection of the Hungarian Government as harmful to Sweden – as Hungary will in future be one of Europe's richest and most stable countries. It is therefore of the utmost importance for the government to change its tone towards Hungary. Viktor Orbán has succeeded in bringing about a substantial economic improvement in Hungary and has also managed to raise the standard of living of the majority of the population. It is also a little strange how the government is reasoning. On the one hand, Hungary is strongly criticised; on the other hand, the Prime Minister, among others, goes to Saudi Arabia, which is now most involved in a war in Yemen, where there are a huge number of civilians dying. I think that we should have a balanced view of foreign policy and not get into trouble with countries that are actually on our side.
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-26	Mr President, I would like to What it's basically about – at least between you and me, Jeff Ahl – is completely different human outlook. I believe that your xenophobic attitude risks blinding your analysis of what is happening in the world. Sweden, together with a number of countries and international and non-governmental organisations, has expressed concern about developments in Hungary. Bilaterally for Sweden a broad dialogue with Hungary, both at political and official level, on respect for the EU's fundamental values including human rights and the rule of law. Sweden also supports the Commission's conduct of several infringement proceedings against Hungary. Within the Council of Europe, a united Commission has criticised Hungary's handling of asylum seekers, in particular regarding the rapid asylum procedure and the lack of protection measures for asylum seekers. Sweden welcomes the Venice Commission's call to Hungary. The government will continue to recall that the EU's fundamental values are not negotiable. All Member States must honour their commitments under both the EU and the Council of Europe and the UN acquis. People in all EU Member States must be able to trust that human rights apply and are respected.
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-29	Mr President, I would like to That is quite right; we certainly do not share the same view of humanity. As I have said, this government has been flirting with various states around the world that have anything but what I consider reasonable values. You have been down in Iran, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and indeed you have been with them in a very intimate way. Women representatives of the government chose to wear a veil. It shows quite clearly what it means to be a feminist – it's not about wanting to support women, it's about completely different things. It's just a curtain you hold up to fool voters. Then there is the fact: Because of the mass immigration, which has taken place completely out of control, terrorists have entered Sweden. Group rapes have run out, and even politically correct pressure is now beginning to report that immigrants are basically the only victims of group rape. Linked to this, it is perfectly reasonable that Hungary does not want to go the way that Sweden has walked. That's why you have to protect your limit. The Foreign Minister talks about the EU's fundamental values. How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that the EU's fundamental values are more important than the sovereignty of the nation states? Furthermore, the EU is an anti-democratic organisation in which non-elected bureaucrats run to a large extent, and, as I mentioned earlier, leading figures in the EU make statements that are highly questionable from a democratic point of view.
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-33	Mr President, I would like to Jeff Ahls's last speech illustrates with all due clarity what I have just said about the difference in our view of humanity, our view of the European Union and our view of human rights. Sweden will continue to promote joint responsibility on the refugee issue. Strengthening and constructive cooperation both within the EU and globally is, in fact, a cornerstone of a long-term sustainable migration policy, and the future EU asylum system must be legally secure and sustainable. It must safeguard the right of asylum while achieving a more balanced distribution of asylum seekers among the Member States. Solidarity and increased harmonisation are priority issues for Sweden, and it is important for the EU to have an asylum system in place that can deal with a future crisis. We can be sure that we will see greater flows of refugees in the future. Without a functioning asylum system, we run the risk of having Schengen cooperation that is not fully operational either. Sweden will also continue to stand up for universal human rights, both within the EU and in other multilateral contexts.
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Mikael Oscarsson has asked me if the government is keeping information about Raoul Wallenberg secret and whether it has been done at the request of other countries. Mikael Oscarsson has also asked me what consultations Sweden had with Russia during the last decades' investigations into the case of Raoul Wallenberg. One must start by saying that Raoul Wallenberg personifies the Swedish work on human rights. His work is a model for people even today, not least for young people. He is a symbol and inspiration for a long Swedish tradition of humanitarian work and commitment. Much is still unclear as to the fate of Raoul Wallenberg in the Soviet Union of Stalin. Unfortunately, the circumstances surrounding the disappearance of Raoul Wallenberg are still not fully investigated. All information on the Raoul Wallenberg case was added up to 1970 is public. In January 2001, the Government made an overall assessment of the documents submitted in 1971-2000. A large majority of these documents were then made public. A few were covered by secrecy. Information classified as confidential concerned relations with other States and the protection of Swedish interests. Over the years, the government has worked to create the greatest possible clarity about the fate of Raoul Wallenberg in a dialogue with what was then the Soviet Union and today is Russia and in cooperation with other states. Not least, a very detailed analysis of the Swedish state administration's actions, including its shortcomings, has taken place. I would particularly like to draw attention to two reports, on the one hand the 2001 report of the Swedish-Russian working group and, on the other hand, the 2003 report 'A diplomatic failure'. The government will continue to work towards creating the greatest possible clarity on the question of the fate of Raoul Wallenberg. We do this, among other things, in our contacts with Russia. Contacts with Russia on Raoul Wallenberg in recent decades have been aimed at obtaining further information on outstanding issues and achieving the greatest possible openness on the part of Russia.
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-42	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is now over 70 years since Raoul Wallenberg disappeared, only 32 years old. He, who gave his utmost in the struggle against Nazism and in order to save Jews, then fell victim to the other terrible ideology – Communism. He was captured by the Red Army in eastern Hungary, and no one yet knows exactly what happened to the Swedish diplomat. He is an honorary citizen around the world, including in countries such as Israel – who are actually turning 70 today, so we can take this opportunity to congratulate the nation of Israel. The case of Raoul Wallenberg brings a number of things to light: how Sweden treated its diplomats, the consequences of the Soviet threat in the search for truth, the consequences of Swedish neutrality and so on. Raoul Wallenberg is a symbol or role model for so many young people. We have instituted Raoul Wallenberg's day, something I have been exercising about for several years, on his name day in August. He's a role model. He is a person who not only received information but did something with it. But we still have an obligation to learn exactly what happened to perhaps the most famous citizens in Sweden. The Minister points to the various efforts made by the Swedish Government to clarify the complete circumstances surrounding his fate, including the ten-year examination of a bilateral Swedish-Russian working group during the 1990s, including Professor Guy von Dardel, Raoul Wallenberg's brother. Unfortunately, in recent years it has become clear that Russian officials on several occasions withheld important information and documentation from this working group. This is a deeply worrying fact, especially since there is evidence that the withholding of documentation was done intentionally. This includes documents showing that Raoul Wallenberg lived for several days after the date claimed by the Russian authorities is his official date of death, on 17 July 1947. It must be clarified which Swedish representatives have been aware of these measures and how they responded to the information provided by Russian officials. Of particular interest are notes of an unidentified prisoner, No. 7, who is being questioned internally in Lubjanka Prison for more than 16 1⁄2 hours on July 23, 1947. In 2009, employees of the Russian Federal Security Service, FSB, stated that this prisoner was most likely the Swedish diplomat Raoul Wallenberg. Nine long years have passed since then, with no further progress on this issue. Given that the information on prisoner No 7 is the most important concrete clue in the search for Wallenberg's fate, which has emerged over the last 60 years, I would like to ask: What is Sweden doing to get a clear idea of the identity of prisoner No. 7? And when was the last time that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs made a formal request to the Russian government to declassify your records of prisoner number 7 in the Lubjanka prison Lubjanka? As I understand it, this was done by 2012. Have there been later occasions when you or any other representative of the government has put pressure on this?
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-51	Mr President, I would like to First, let me say that the interest in clarifying what happened to Raoul Wallenberg and making available the material that exists is something that Mikael Oscarsson and I share. To me, Raoul Wallenberg is a great hero. The courage he showed, his ingenuity and the way he worked I hope will inspire all diplomats in the future. He's a very important person. For us at the Swedish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Raoul Wallenberg's fate has been our biggest and longest-lasting affair. Work on this matter is still ongoing. When we made an overall assessment of the documents created between 1971 and 2000, about 95% of them were made public. The information that would continue to be considered confidential concerned relations with other states and the protection of Swedish interests. Right now, a trial is under way in the Government Office to disclose all documents about Raoul Wallenberg added after 1971. As always when it comes to issues relating to the extradition of documents, one has to look at the confidentiality aspect. That work is in progress right now. Mikael Oscarsson also asks what consultations Sweden has had with Russia. As I mentioned, over the years the government has been in dialogue with what was first the Soviet Union and then Russia has been trying to create the greatest possible clarity. There was a Swedish-Russian working group. It presented its work in 2001. Contacts over the last few decades have focused on finding out more about the issues that have not yet been answered and on ensuring the greatest possible transparency on the part of the Russian Federation. It is not that we do not want to, but that there is another country here that has not wanted to share the information, nor that of researchers who have continued their efforts to clarify the fate of Raoul Wallenberg. We will continue to strive to achieve this through our contacts. Independent research is a very important part of this. At the Ministry for Foreign Affairs we also have a Raoul Wallenberg database with a wide range of documents that are free for researchers and the public to access. We're trying to make all the material available. But the tendency of the Russian side to clarify this case seems to be less now than it was in the late 1990s and in the early 2000s, unfortunately. There is opposition on that side to giving out what we believe to be important tasks. It is difficult to get answers from Russia to questions asked. But we are pursuing this in the long term. We also have Raoul Wallenberg Day and Raoul Wallenberg lectures at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. The fact that the public is also paying attention to the case is incredibly important. We are also working to answer the 80 questions that have been sent to us by Raoul Wallenberg's family.
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-57	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that we share the commitment to Raoul Wallenberg. In the way he acted and with his inventiveness – with Swedish passports and Swedish houses – he was able to save the lives of tens of thousands of Hungarian Jews who were otherwise heading for a certain death in the concentration camps in Nazi Germany. That is why it is so important that we get to the bottom of what happened to Raoul Wallenberg. It is for his sake, for his sister Nina Lagergren's sake, for the sake of her great-grandkids and great-grandkids, but also for the sake of the entire Swedish people. What really happened? I would therefore like to ask once again: when was the last time that the government pressed on the Russian Government about the information on prisoner No 7? More recently, it has become apparent that in 1981 some foreign governments, including Israel and Finland, asked the Swedish Ministry of Foreign Affairs to keep specific records regarding Raoul Wallenberg's investigation secret. In your reply you stated that there are still some parts that are classified. The question then is: what kind of information is so sensitive that it must remain confidential more than 70 years after Raoul Wallenberg disappeared? Are there other countries that have made similar arrangements on this issue? There is also another question concerning what kind of consultation Swedish officials had with Soviet officials before members of Raoul Wallenberg's family visited the Soviet Union in October 1989 at the special invitation of Michail Gorbatjov. What discussions with US representatives preceded this? It was a special dossier that the CIA released in 1994. Last month, Raoul Wallenberg's family submitted a new request to the Swedish authorities and put forward detailed questions about research. The investigation was based on new information and insights that challenge some theories. Even small pieces of the puzzle can provide valuable clues for further investigation into the fate of Raoul Wallenberg in Russia. Then there are questions about Sverker Åström, who was cabinet secretary and UN ambassador, as you know. There are suspicions that he was working for Soviet interests. Whether it was like that or not, we don't know. He played a leading role in the Wallenberg investigation for decades, including during the crucial years of the 1950s. His files in the archive have been classified by Säpo for 75 years. For Raoul Wallenberg's family, it is of great interest if there is something in the suspicions that have existed regarding Sverker Åström. It would be interesting to have some kind of comment on this issue as well. The Minister points to a comprehensive review of the Swedish government's handling of the Raoul Wallenberg case carried out in 2003. Although it was a valuable effort, it focused mainly on the years 1945- 1947. With regard to recent years, I wonder: What is the government's view on the issues that have now been highlighted?
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-65	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! I'm trying to understand what Mikael Oscarsson wants with his interpellation. Is it about finding out if there is a will on the part of the Swedish Government to really address this issue? Then I can answer: Yes, it does. As I was trying to describe, we are currently doing work to make the material available, including what is available from 1971. Most of it has been made available, but we are therefore going through the material again to see if the whole thing could not be made public. So far, the usual confidentiality assessment of the material has been carried out, but we are now going through it again to see if everything can be disclosed. It is also a question of a lack of will on the part of the main party, that is, Russia, which has shown an unwillingness to help us clarify all these issues. If, on the other hand, Mikael Oscarsson wants answers to a number of details, it is impossible for me to answer here. I cannot say here and now what has happened on a particular date or with a specific document. One of the recent events, for example, is that our embassy in Moscow has followed the recent court proceedings in Moscow on the Russian secret service FSB's archive document on the fate of Raoul Wallenberg. If and when these documents are published, it will definitely contribute to greater clarity in the matter. The Embassy also assisted when Raoul Wallenberg's family visited Moscow in the autumn of 2016. There was also a meeting with members of the secret services responsible for relevant archives, which provided an opportunity for the family and also for independent researchers to present questions to the Russian side. The work of independent researchers is also something that I would like to point out when it comes to seeking answers to all the individual questions, a work that is still going on. It is impossible for me to give Mikael Oscarsson information about a particular date or document, but I imagine that what Mikael Oscarsson wants to know is what is happening and how we see this. We have no other interest but to really make sure to answer the outstanding questions and also to use this as an opportunity to remember Wallenberg's act. With very large doses of courage, cunning, commitment and calm, he managed to issue these protection passports that saved the lives of tens of thousands of Jews during the Holocaust. It is very important not to forget such civil courage but to let it inspire us fully today. The government's work on this important matter continues, and it is my absolute hope that one day we will know everything about what happened to Raoul Wallenberg.
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-73	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. My hope now is that this will result in all the facts that exist to date being released. They may be small pieces of the puzzle, but they can still help to provide answers and clarity as to what happened. We've been thinking several times that Raoul Wallenberg is a great hero. He is something as unusual as a Swedish hero, a person who took the initiative and made it possible for people to be saved. Then he was taken away by the Russians, and so we all have these question marks. A bit of a question is, of course, whether he was actually a tragic victim of unfortunate circumstances in a chaotic wartime. What did the Swedish government's lack of commitment during the post-war years mean and also later? Sweden would have been able to press on various occasions. This is a chance to say exactly when the last time was as the government pressed on about all information about prisoner No. 7. That information would be very valuable.
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-77	Mr President, I would like to Thank you once again, Mikael Oscarsson, for this question, which is an opportunity for me and the government to say that we are working tirelessly on this, which is our longest and perhaps one of the most difficult matters we have had to deal with at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is a work in progress. I have mentioned how we use the embassy in Moscow and how contacts are made with the family and the researchers. We give all the support. Work is under way to see if it would be possible to make everything available even after 1971. We are looking for answers to all these questions, and this is happening on an ongoing basis. In addition, I think that both Mikael Oscarsson and I can recommend people, especially young people – I see that we have such in the gallery – to actually read a number of books about Raoul Wallenberg and see what role model he was. There is excellent literature about his fate. I think, like Mikael Oscarsson, that we must always learn from history and also from the historical mistakes that have been made, and I believe that this work offers such an opportunity to learn. Mikael Oscarsson can be absolutely sure that we have a full will to ensure that nothing is kept secret without actually being able to make the material available and continue searching for answers to all the outstanding questions about our hero Raoul Wallenberg.
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-81	Mr President, I would like to Sotiris Delis has asked the Minister for Enterprise and Innovation whether he considers that there is fair competition in the Swedish television market and what measures the Minister intends to take. The question is raised on the grounds that Tele 2 and Com Hem have announced their intention to merge. Sotiris Delis considers that an investigation should be carried out into competition in the television market. The work within the government is so distributed that I am the Minister for Culture and Democracy with responsibility for media policy to answer the question. The Swedish television market is and has been both dynamic and highly competitive for a long time. New technologies have led to the emergence of new distribution channels, such as streaming TV on different platforms. It has changed the way television is consumed, and it has also affected competition in the field of television as a whole, as new players, including global ones, have been added. About this, the Swedish Competition Authority writes in its report Competition in Sweden 2018. They note that developments in the field of television mean that supply is increasing, both in terms of the forms of television viewing and the content of the programme itself. Not least, broadcasting via the Internet contributes to the diversity of television broadcasting. The impact of a possible merger of Tele 2 and Com Hem on competition in the television market is a test for the relevant competition authorities. I see no reason to anticipate that process. The Press, Radio and Television Authority shall, according to its instructions, monitor and analyse developments in the media area and disseminate knowledge of it to the public. The agency publishes, among other things, the report Media Development – Media Economics, where developments in the Swedish market in television, radio and press are analysed.
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-86	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am convinced that the Minister for Culture and I agree that competition is central to the Swedish television market. Sound competition ensures that there are conditions for increasing the democratic aspect and the free and democratic climate of dialogue in our country. The Minister for Culture is right in his reply that it is up to the Competition Authority and possibly courts to examine, but that does not prevent us from having a discussion on the substance of the matter. The fact that the market has been competitive for a long time is something that serves Swedish television viewers well and a system that we should reasonably safeguard. But there is also a great risk that competition in the Swedish television market will deteriorate and that consumers will be the big losers in the long term with a more one-sided range of programmes and where less and less is produced in our country. Experts in the television market find that the new, expected merger is part of a consolidation trend in a communications market that is not growing and with a single coherent player, who would also own, in addition to distribution, the content of the channels it distributes, that is, the entire value chain. Many industry analysts also estimate that the Swedish Competition Authority has overvalued digital distribution and has not taken into account how strong traditional distribution remains. For example, the 4.9 million TV households watch an average of 139 minutes of traditional television a day, according to the report on statistics for television viewing in Sweden referred to by the Minister. As the Minister of Culture himself mentions in his reply, the Competition Authority has noted that developments in the television market and the television sector mean that the supply is increasing, both in terms of the forms of television viewing and the content of the programme itself. A merger would, in my opinion, put this system at risk. In general, however, the Minister for Culture should be able to discuss what measures the government is taking to promote continued competition in the television market. It is better to anticipate than to anticipate. What is the position of the Minister for Culture on this issue?
i-PshMHe63QDn2bsScerXxqM	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Sotiris Delis, for an important interpellation! I am a little surprised by the Minister for Culture's passive answer to this question. It should concern a Minister for Culture and Democracy if we get a distribution monopoly in Sweden. Think, Mr President, if there was only one food chain! Think, Mr President, if there was only one chain selling cars in Sweden! This is exactly the development, and that is how I interpret Sotiris's interpellation. He is deeply concerned about Swedish TV production and film production and what it means for Swedish television companies if we end up in a monopoly situation. What it means to us consumers, we have already seen. This week we could read, I think it was in Dagens i ndustri, a tt the strong price increase Com Hem has done has gone well. In Expressen we could read that Com Hem expects to lose customers because of the big price increases you intend to make. Why, then, can they be made? Well, of course, because you get a monopoly of distribution. We consumers are tied to the operator we have, and it is relatively difficult to switch. Then what both the Government and my esteemed parliamentary colleague from Jönköping say is: This is subject to review by authorities and courts in relation to the legislative part. However, there is nothing to prevent the Minister from expressing in this House whether it is appropriate and if we wish to have a deteriorating television market. Of course, it would also be interesting to know what the Government thinks it can have consequences, not least for Swedish productions. It is not clear at all, at least not in the first post, but it is possible that the Government will have to respond to it in the next post. Does the Government share the concern that a distribution monopoly is bad for us television consumers, bad for the television companies and bad for Swedish film and television production? Does the Government have any idea of it at all? That's what the interpellation is about, isn't it? And if the Government is concerned and shares our concern that monopolies are bad, what does the Government intend to do? The Government is a member of the Government. The Government owns the ability to submit proposals to the Riksdag. The Government has the full power to come to this House with concrete political proposals if the Government is concerned about a monopoly situation. If the government isn't, talk about it! Talk about it in the next post! Is the Government concerned that there will be a monopoly in Sweden so that competition will deteriorate and we will have a distribution monopoly? The companies are worried about that. Me and Sotiris were at the same seminar, an excellent lunch seminar with leading television companies in Sweden. They're worried sick. One of Sweden's foremost television personalities, Jan Scherman, at this seminar expressed very strong concern about what it means for the competitive situation in Sweden if we get a monopoly. That is exactly what the Swedish people, the television companies and everyone else are curious about. What does the Government think on this matter?
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-98	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Sotiris Delis, for a nuanced and balanced question! Thank you, Lars Beckman, for further questions! They weren't in the first one, which I'm here to answer. Of course, I share Mr Sotiris's view that we should have a good competitive environment in our country and that it is a good thing for companies to develop but also for us consumers in terms of the supply that we get to know. That is why, since we took office, we have put forward and implemented policies that we are now pursuing and which in different ways create good conditions for entrepreneurship in our country. It is about enterprise policy, but also about media policy, for which I am responsible. I have always made it clear that, for me, strong and independent public services are not enough. I want free press, free media. I want to read editorial pages from right to left. I want perspectives on what is happening locally, regionally, nationally and in our surrounding world. But that freedom means that we must follow closely issues of competition and good conditions for companies. That is why we have authorities who do so from different perspectives. What we have on the table now is that an authority has investigated this particular issue as late as this year, and it does not highlight any great concern about the situation. In addition, the case must be examined according to all the rules of art. But I share Mr Beckman's view that we cannot just settle down because it is a good thing right now. On the contrary, this is something that everyone in this House but also the government must keep an eye on constantly in order to create good conditions for entrepreneurs in our country and ensure that we have free media and free press that examines people like us. This is, of course, the most important task of the media and the free press. But this is, as I said, nothing you do once and then you're done with. We must constantly follow it and also ensure that the authorities that follow up and review and report to us all have good conditions for doing a good job. We have also made sure that they have.
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-103	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. I am pleased to hear the Minister's reasoning and the Minister's determination to deal with monitoring developments and acting. I have had the parliamentary investigation service investigate what the price picture of telecommunications services for consumers looks like. Prices have fallen in relation to the consumer price index, is the answer. This may be a good thing, but given the competitive situation, there is a great risk that a dominant player will push prices to – this is how the model works – initially knock out smaller players and when it is done raise prices in a market without competitors. Here the legislation is clear, Minister: a company that is so strong that it can act without taking into account its competitors has a dominant position. Such companies have a particular responsibility and must not abuse their market power through, for example, predatory pricing and refusal to supply. In other words, the legislator calls for a review of the situation on the television market in order to improve competition. The Government has previously strengthened Swedish film production during its term of office. However, if the current trend persists, there is a risk that Swedish television production will drastically decrease. That's my assessment, and I'm not alone in it. It is important to create conditions for more jobs in the industry, not fewer. Just as important, as I see it, is that consumers do not have less access to Swedish-produced programmes and television series. The chairman of the film and television producers' association also sees a risk of reduced competition leading to less resources being invested in Swedish television production, which of course affects the industry. She made the following statement in the Media of Today: ..................................................... Does the Minister of Culture not think that it is now time to take action to ensure that in a Swedish television market there is a variety of programmes with Swedish content, major sporting events and events that consumers can have access to?
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-109	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that I and the Government share the same view of the need for free press in Sweden. Now this issue is not really about this, although, of course, news is produced and broadcast in these channels. When you have a monopoly-like situation, which we see trends now, a company can make use of this in two ways. One is that the price is raised to us consumers, and that is exactly what is happening right now. The company that shocks its prices also says: Yes, we raise prices, and we are aware that we will lose customers. It can never be good for us TV consumers. At the other end, if a distribution monopoly is used, prices can be reduced or conditions reduced for those who wish to be present in this distribution network. And, Mr President, we have also seen examples this winter of consumers suddenly getting their TVs turned off – not entirely, but some channels disappear. This may be because a company exploits its monopoly position. It therefore raises the price for the consumer but lowers the price and reduces the conditions for those who wish to distribute. That is precisely why I am so glad that Mr Sotiris has drawn attention to this issue. The difference between us MPs and the Government is of course that the Government can actually act. The government can do things. If the Government were seriously concerned about this issue, it would of course review whether there was a need for change of legislation or other measures. It does not help, Mr President, that we agree that this is a problem, but it only makes a difference if you do things.
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-113	Mr President, I would like to I would like to repeat that, as recently as this year, we have received a report on our table called Competition in Sweden 2018. It does not alert about any monopoly situation in Sweden. I have not taken note of the study to which the Member of Parliament refers, to which he himself has requested. I look forward to seeing it. But, of course, this is something we have to watch. Nobody in the government wants a monopoly situation. We must therefore ensure that our authorities continuously monitor the situation and report back so that, if we see trends in this, we monitor it particularly closely and put in place tools. We're not there right now, according to the latest reports we have access to. However, I am informed that the Minister for Economic Affairs is, of course, following this issue very closely. I would also like to stay for a few seconds at what was highlighted regarding Swedish-produced programmes and TV series. Of course, this is something we care about and that we know many Swedish TV viewers appreciate. At the same time, as a free minister, I am reluctant to legislate on quotas, as is advocated in many European countries. The Swedish position, with a mandate from the Swedish Parliament, has been that we should not go that way. We are becoming more and more an exception in a European context. Large countries, including France, would like to see special promotion of their own production. Their, according to their definition, French programmes should receive advantages compared to other programmes produced in other countries or with employees from other countries. I hope that the Moderates have not changed direction on this issue. It has felt extremely secure that we have a Swedish line of which we are proud: that we continue to believe in the power of competition and freedom in competing on equal terms here at home as well as in other parts of the world. Several of the global players, both Netflix and HBO Nordic, also have, as can be stressed, Swedish productions in their range. But this is not about one or the other. We need to find a mix and a balance that creates diversity with multiple actors but also provides jobs. Public service and SVT's major production play a role here. At the moment, Sture Nordh is working with the parliamentary committee to present proposals for the new broadcasting licence. Let's see what you find out there.
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-119	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the positive content of the discussion! The Com Hem and Tele 2 operators themselves realise that action is needed to get through the merger in the European Commission. There was a hope that the sale of MTG and the Danish telecommunications company TDC would be the solution. This was not the case, and perhaps there is reason to look at the issue broadly. The objective of Swedish competition policy is well-functioning markets for the benefit of consumers; we agree on that. My assessment is that the Minister of Culture, in the last paragraph of his reply to me, concerning the Authority for Press, Radio and Television, captures a central aspect and players. A more in-depth analysis of the market would be needed here. It would have been good if the Authority had been given such a special mandate by the Minister, and the Minister could give it to the Authority. According to my information, another major player met this authority as late as Friday. The Director-General there would like to carry out such an investigation but would need to be given a mandate to do so. The will of the Minister for Culture is thus put to the test. The ability of the Minister of Culture exists. With the consolidation of the Swedish television market now taking place, there is a great risk that competition in the market will deteriorate. There consumers will be the big losers in the long term. In other words, political initiatives are needed. I hope, therefore, that the Minister will see that a move needs to be taken on the basis of these conditions and therefore review the proposal for an investigation to be carried out into competition in the television market in the light of what is stated in the interpellation. So, Mr President and the Minister, I would like to thank you for your reply and for the discussion.
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-124	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Sotiris Delis. I am taking with me the input on what, according to the Member of Parliament, the authority should review and do to the Minister for Economic Affairs and to our joint discussions. We must, of course, act in advance. At all times, it's better to be wise than hindsight. This is an issue that is of great importance to all of us, and that is why, of course, we are going to monitor it. There are ongoing government dialogues, so there is every opportunity to continue the discussion on how we ensure that we have the basis and the studies we need to put in the right measures and create the best possible conditions. This is our common goal: to ensure that we create the best conditions for entrepreneurship in our country. This means that companies need to have the resources to compete, which will ultimately benefit consumers.
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-127	Mr President, I would like to Jeff Ahl has asked me what measures I and the government are taking to ensure that SVT is neutral and does not take a stand on politically charged issues. As I explained in the answers to a number of previous interpellations and written questions this parliamentary year, the activities of Swedish Television are conducted independently both in relation to the state and in relation to other economic and political spheres of power in society. This is regulated in the multi-annual broadcasting permits decided by the Government according to the framework and direction established by the Riksdag. According to the broadcasting licence, the activities of the programme must be carried out objectively and impartially. If Jeff Ahl considers that Sweden's Television has breached this requirement, he, like everyone else, can report it to the Swedish Radio and Television Audit Board at the Swedish Press, Radio and Television Agency. The Board subsequently examines whether the content of radio and television programmes complies with the rules applicable to the broadcasts. This is a well-established and well-functioning system to ensure that neither Swedish Television nor any of the other public service broadcasters is in breach of the broadcasting requirements, while ensuring the independence of the activities. Public service independence is crucial to public confidence in the operation. As a minister, I cannot and should not comment on the content of the programmes being broadcast.
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-131	Mr President, I would like to I note that the Minister for Culture's reply leaves much to be desired. There are, of course, explanations for this. The government itself is pursuing a policy that is frightening from a democratic point of view. Among other things, the government wants to enforce censorship laws. Efforts are being made to force private companies to agree that any views on their social media or search engines which, according to this socialist government, are regarded as displeasing should be cleared out. This is something that I and the new strongly growing party Alternatives for Sweden take extremely seriously. In the past, the government has attacked various countries in the hands of the non-elected bureaucrats in the EU because their media landscape is politically biased. At the same time, Sweden's media landscape is extremely uniform, although, thankfully, alternative media to some extent weighs it up. It is particularly serious when propaganda sneaks into children's programs in SVT. The reason I wrote this interpellation was part of a children's program where opinions were expressed that it is okay to hide illegal refugees. The Children's Canal has previously also included a veiled female fireman. That our children should have to be subjected to political, religious or ideological indoctrination when they watch children's programmes, I consider to be beneath any criticism. It is extremely problematic that SVT is more like a propaganda channel than an independent institution for the provision of knowledge and news. For example, the 2014 EU vault was a joke, in which politically correct individuals were given an enormous space to carry out propaganda. After Brexit, SVT interviewed almost exclusively those who had voted for Britain to remain in the Union – this also for propaganda reasons. Similarly, the reporting during the mass migration wave in 2015 was biased and meant to create opinion for mass immigration, despite the fact that many of those who came in 2015 were full-grown men who abandoned women and children in war zones. Mr President, I would like to Alternative for Sweden is a newly started party. We grow stronger every day. Our solution to the problem of SVT and public service is simple and necessary. Public services must be discontinued and the organisation restored, but in a much smaller form than the present one. In this way, we make it easier for new independent journalists and employees to take their place in this new public service. Then other measures can be taken. For example, citizens can be allowed to stop paying the fee without having to throw out the TV if they believe that the public service has acted incorrectly. This reduces the threshold for paying and, at the same time, increases the pressure for public services to comply with the democratic rules of the public service. In addition, Alternatives for Sweden want to close the Swedish Press, Radio and Television Authority, as this authority is essentially failing to prepare audit cases satisfactorily.
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-139	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Member of Parliament Ahl, for the interpellation! We live in a democracy that has developed our country in a fantastic way – an impressive way – over the past 200 or 150 years. There is so much to be proud of with our country. I would very much like to call on Member of Parliament Ahl to use his democratic rights and to report, with the democratic methods that we have developed and which we are all able to manifest on a daily basis, the errors that the Member of Parliament is experiencing to the Board of Review.
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-141	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my first speech, I find no reason to do so because these scrutiny dossiers are all that often leads nowhere. Public service is now infiltrated by left-wing and Islamic forces, which I understand is also supported by the Minister for Culture of course. It is common knowledge that the Green Party, the Left Party, the Social Democrats, the Center Party and the Moderates are the five parties that allow themselves to be infiltrated by, or perhaps consciously cooperate with, Islamists. So, of course, none of these parties wants to take any steps to overcome the democratic problems of public service today. Therefore, it is particularly serious when ordinary people will be prevented from voting with their feet – it will be if the tax discussed as an alternative to today's fee is pushed through. This also cements the image of an increasingly opinion-repressive state which, with various tax-funded propaganda agencies, should act simultaneously in order to suppress views which the politically correct establishment considers to be displeasing. It is the same establishment that does everything to dissolve the nation state. For those with a totalitarian view of what is right, indoctrinating children is of particular importance. At school, children are today exposed to propaganda both from teachers and from various organisations that are allowed to be invited and spread out. It has become clear that principals scare some students into silence, including by reporting them to Säpo. SVT should only be seen as part of a larger opinion-repressive apparatus. It is therefore remarkable that no more politicians in the other parties react when our children are subjected to political propaganda. It doesn't matter what your opinions are or whether you sympathize with your opinions. Children should never be allowed to be subjected to political propaganda. I have not sympathized with the Green Party on very many issues, but I have always had respect for the Green Party in that it has often stood up for democratic fundamental values. There has clearly been some sort of paradigm shift in the party, and it certainly has to do with the organised cooperation that is now being done with Islamic elements in society. Mr President, I would like to I hope that the Minister for Culture is prepared to consider some form of action to safeguard basic democratic principles and that this government acts when our children are exposed to propaganda in forums that are more or less state-owned. I have no illusions that neither the Minister nor the Government will take any action, as this is in line with other repressive measures that they want to take. Among other things, the Court of Appeal Council Katarina Rikte has strongly criticised the proposal on censorship laws that this government intends to try to implement. To conclude, Mr President, I find no reason to be proud of this government, given the way in which it deals with basic democratic principles. That is something that I, as a democrat, take extremely seriously. I hope with all my heart that the government will also come to light.
i-AAPY4hY22oHKgTjoQ7gA4o	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jeff Ahl, for the continued discussions! We live in a democracy, which gives us enormous opportunities to organise ourselves and to fight for what we believe in by democratic means. This is facilitated by listening to one another and respecting one another and not making lies or accusing people of things that are not true. It makes it easier for those who listen to us as politicians and who are in this House, and it paves the way for people who hear us to make their own decisions based on facts. Not to do so — to create a breeding ground with false accusations because people do not have facts to base themselves on — is to deceive people. It is an extremely serious matter which ultimately threatens democratic societies. A few years ago, I had the privilege of meeting a 101-year-old. It wasn't just any 101-year-old-- they're all absolutely amazing and unique, but he had been fighting for democracy all his life. He was a student in Uppsala when they struggled to provide protection for Jewish students. Then he had continued to organize himself and fight on all different social levels for the equal value of all people and for Sweden to be a strong and generous democracy. He said some wise words to me. We enjoy the fruits of all that generations of Swedes before us have fought for. Our constitutions give us some of the most generous freedoms in the world, which is fantastic and something we must protect. I asked him what we had to do now. He looked me deep in the eye with a clear blue eye and said: Alice, you have to democratize democracy every day. I have carried that with me – that I shall fight every day to democratise democracy. I do that in every possible way and in relation to every person I meet. I do so partly by listening and respecting, partly by highlighting and showing all the ways and channels that we have, which so few people in the world enjoy. We get to organise ourselves freely, and we live in a country where we invest a lot of millions in both public service – so that they can review the powers as a Member of Parliament Ahl and myself – as in a free press and free media, from the right to the left, precisely because we need journalistic scrutiny. I mentioned this in connection with a previous interpellation. We need to ensure that power must never be in any sphere of its own without constantly turning it inside out so that our citizens and everyone living in our country can form their own opinion by getting facts on the table and turning them around. Public service has a very special mission in terms of reviewing power, but also very specific tasks in crisis and emergency situations. These are the two major reasons why I am protecting public service. I am very pleased that I am not alone in this and that a clear majority of Members of Parliament also understand the importance of strong and independent public service. That is why we have authorities and not politicians who are sitting here looking at whether public services are doing what they are supposed to do. Otherwise, there would be a risk that my or Jeff Ahls's particular opinion or thinking would influence. There's an order. It has worked, and at the moment it is being re-examined by all the parties in Parliament. It's a good order.
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-158	Mr President, I would like to It is quite right that the Minister says: The facts should be the foundation of a democracy. Unfortunately, neither this government nor the previous bourgeois governments have lived up to it – lies have been spread and, among other things, the government's website to do so. I think it's interesting about the 101-year-old the minister brought up. It is strange, however, that the government is prepared to bring about changes to the very constitution which the Minister believes is important to protect. As I mentioned earlier, experts such as the Council of Appeal Katarina Rikte have made serious criticism of the fact that this can become a black hole in Swedish constitution. This cannot be seen as anything other than that this government is moving in a direction which is quite contrary to what the Minister is advocating. But that is exactly how it has always been with the politically correct establishment: you say one thing, but the political decisions you make and are prepared to implement go in exactly the opposite direction. Democracy must always be conquered by every generation, otherwise it will never work. That is why it is extremely serious that we now have the society and the media landscape that we have, which is actually counterproductive to free talk. For example, it is hardly the case that it will be more democratic if we receive a public service tax than if we have a voluntary fee. After all, citizens are not given the opportunity to vote with their feet, as they are called. This will not give citizens the opportunity to put pressure on public services by not paying the fee. It is democracy, and that is exactly what this government does not represent.
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-162	Mr President, I would like to I don't know how much political science Members of Parliament have studied, but it might be an idea to go home and produce course literature and read on how we make decisions in Sweden, how to change laws and what a majority in parliament means. The committee that worked out the proposal for a tax was a committee with members from all parties in Parliament. They came up with this proposal. The arguments that Parliament's parties want public service to be financed through the tax bill are, simply put, that public service is part of democracy and a guarantor of it and that power – such as I – is being scrutinised. It is understood that funding must be secured in the long term, and that is why it has been proposed. We will see if that is the case, but this is the proposal from all parties in the Swedish Parliament. I would like to point out once again that the very fact that we are a democracy, our right to organise ourselves and our freedom of association means that Member Ahl can continue to fight for what he believes in and try to win more sympathy and votes. It's a great opportunity, but you also have to be prepared to be examined and face counterattacks. All of us here in Parliament will also fight for what we believe in. Fortunately, the majority of MEPs are democrats, so there is hope for Sweden.
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-166	Mr President, I would like to Saila Quicklund has asked me how I intend to act in response to the concerns she believes are with representatives of the operation of the National Museum Norr and the state's part of the commitment. She has also asked how I intend to act in response to the letter sent to me by representatives of the Municipality of Östersund and the Region of Jämtland Härjedalen as Minister of Culture. The government is carrying out a number of initiatives in the field of culture in order to strengthen culture throughout our country. The opportunity for everyone to participate in cultural life, regardless of which part of the country you live in, is a priority for cultural policy. As I stated in a written reply to Saila Quicklund on 14 March, Nationalmuseum's funding was strengthened by SEK 2 million in the 2016 budget bill to strengthen the museum's regional presence. The reinforcement should be seen as part of the Government's ambition to increase accessibility and participation in culture throughout the country, for example through cooperation with regional museums. In this way, the activities of the National Museum can be disseminated and made available nationally. Based on this reinforcement, the authority itself decided to enter into a cooperation with Jamtli on the establishment of a branch in Östersund. Subsequently, the agency's funding has also been increased by SEK 65 million for 2018, and as of 2019 the grant is expected to be increased by SEK 42 million. In total, Nationalmuseum has an appropriation of approximately SEK 220 million for 2018. The Ministry of Culture has had contact with the representatives of Region Jämtland Härjedalen and Östersund Municipality in connection with the letter. The government will continue to follow this issue closely in the future.
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-170	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Culture, for your answer. The intervention has come about because there is a great deal of concern about the government's efforts regarding operating aid to Jamtli. There are various pictures of what has been agreed on before. An interpellation is also there to create clarity and have a dialogue, so my hope is that there will be greater clarity on this issue. Jamtli is one of Sweden's largest museums. It lies in a region with a long-standing, difficult demographic situation. Jamtli has been a very important player in tourism in our county – a major reason why Norwegian tourists, among other things, come to Östersund. There has been a lot of offensive action on this issue as well. Jamtli can really contribute to regional development. I think it is impressive that, with a turnover of 80 million, this branch has, in any case, been created. The construction has cost Jamtli as much as their entire annual turnover, i.e. SEK 80 million. It has also managed to gather its share of the estimated annual operating cost of SEK 4.5 million. According to Jamtli, the Ministry has expressed several times since 2010 that the National Museum will work according to the model that has been established at Moderna Museet in Malmö, that the model was good and the one that could be used in Östersund – a model for Jamtli. Jamtli with its region accounts for the cost of the building, 80 million SEK, while Jamtli, the region, Nationalmuseum and the state share the annual operating cost, which Nationalmuseum and Jamtli have estimated at 9 million SEK. This operating calculation has been well known by the State since 2011-2012 and nothing else has been said but that SEK 9 million would be the starting point. It must also, according to the Department, be the ceiling for operating costs. Nationalmuseum and Jamtli have at an early stage had a more advanced operating budget of SEK 11.5 million, but then the Ministry said that 9 million would be the ceiling. It shows, therefore, that there has been a dialogue on this and that the starting point has been 9 million. If you do not get what you have expected from the state, it means that you can only have one exhibition per year instead of the intended two. This means that you cannot distribute advertising and advertising about that activity in the way you would like to do, but it becomes more local. It also means that one can only have open daytime, which is devastating. Me and a lot of people with me are very worried. We are talking about accessibility to culture, but when the government acts this way, it goes in the opposite direction. The government states that it will receive operating aid. There has been a dialogue on this and the sums are ready, yet the government chooses to roughly halve the support. I would like the Minister to clarify his position even more than what I get in response to the interpellation.
i-Fg9pMpTaFmUtH2fvaW8LP2	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Saila Quicklund, for the interpellation! I am Minister of Culture in a government that has increased Sweden's cultural budget by SEK 1 1⁄2 billion. Many of these crowns are pumped out in our country because we want to see more culture to more. We've never given the impression of anything else. We will ensure that people can practice culture to a greater extent throughout our country, regardless of where they live, but also take part in other people's cultural practices and art experiences. That is why, of course, the great liberal reform that we have carried out – many of the major museums in our country are located in Stockholm – is part of opening up to cultural experiences but also, as I have said in response to previous interpellations and in debates, getting the common taxes we have across our country. That is why I have expressed myself on a number of occasions in extremely positive terms when it comes to Jamtli and the entire work carried out there and at the National Museum. We have greatly strengthened the National Museum's budget; the entire National Museum initiative is huge. It is a huge renovation that we have invested a great many crowns in. The museum opens in October. We have also appointed an internationally highly renowned manager, Susanna Pettersson. It's a big bet on several levels. And it remains so that Jamtli is part of the priority we make. Otherwise, I cannot go into detail on exactly how many millions will ensure that there is a business there that works and reaches many people. But we follow the discussion closely and for ongoing discussions with the National Museum in particular. But, of course, we also have a dialogue with representatives from Jamtli to ensure that it is a good business and that we invest taxpayers' money in the way to be expected from a government that has high cultural policy ambitions.
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-184	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. For some reason, it is very difficult for the government to find funding for Jamtli and manage its part in the agreement. However, for the government it is very understandable that a restoration and reconstruction of the National Museum in Stockholm can cost over a billion. We are also talking about rent costs increasing to SEK 80 million. It is strange and surprising that the Minister for Culture and the Government can make these big investments in Stockholm while it seems like an insurmountable mountain to find 4.5 million SEK for the branch Nationalmuseum Norr i Östersund, which we also had a dialogue about. There are expectations that the government will fulfil its part in terms of requirements. Since 2011, the government has known what it will cost to run this business. It has also been involved in putting the cost at the level that both Jamtli and Nationalmuseum have planned from outside. The Government has instructed Jamtli so that the parties will follow the model with Moderna Museet in Malmö, which says that operating costs should be shared equally. Mr President, I would like to Viewed from the perspective of country and city, the differences are felt also in the field of culture. The organisation The whole of Sweden will live has mapped out the distribution of public cultural support across the country, and the result is really an eye-opener. Let me give you a few examples. 44% of the state's cultural expenditure goes to Stockholm. 80% of the EU's cultural support, Creative Europe, goes to the metropolitan regions. The counties that have not received any cultural support from the Culture Programme in 2008 and onwards are Sörmland, Blekinge, Halland, Värmland, Dalarna, Västernorrland, Jämtland and Norrbotten. The government has contributed money to the state museums, which are mainly located in Stockholm, and to free admission. It is also a distribution that benefits big cities at the expense of rural areas. How can it be so easy to get 80 million kronor to our large museums, mainly located in the big cities, and to free entrance but so difficult to live up to the commitments you have in terms of regional initiatives such as Nationalmuseum Norr and Jamtli? In addition, biomoms can be added, which hit hard on rural cinemas. The Minister for Culture says in his reply that she has been in dialogue with regional and municipal representatives on this issue. I would like to know what came out of these talks.
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-194	Mr President, I would like to Making this issue a conflict between city and country is on the verge of dishonesty, for it is not the truth. The fact is that this government has invested more in culture throughout our country than any previous government has. Examples of this are Kulturskolan, where 100 million a year is pumped out to all Swedish municipalities, and libraries, which receive 250 million a year. Furthermore, money is earmarked for cinemas in rural areas. Rural film festivals are another priority area that has been reinforced by an additional 15 million – and so on. The figures you put forward as arguments in such a discussion must be put in context and tell what they are based on. The reason why statistics show that a lot of money goes to our big cities, especially Stockholm, is also that our national scenes and large operations are located in Stockholm and have been here since they were started, and then it becomes of course an overweight. Let me stress that never before in Sweden's history has any Minister of Culture or Government invested more in cultural policy in crowns than we are doing right now. I'm very happy about that, but that doesn't mean I'm happy. On the contrary, I am far from satisfied, and I intend to fight for more culture to more. I will also fight for the fact that we are clearly and forcefully working to get Sweden's taxes across the country and that we are spreading businesses, and Jamtli is a fantastic example of that. What we have got out of the talks, partly with the representatives of the region and Jamtli, partly with the Nationalmuseum, which is the authority with which we have ongoing discussions and which also cares about this cooperation, is the basis for how we will continue the investment and get good examples that we can spread to more towns and places around our country.
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-200	Mr President, I would like to I certainly do not put these activities against each other, because culture is important regardless. However, we must state the facts; it is a matter of fact. I think the government is building walls. It is clear that culture is becoming unequal. There is no room for culture throughout the country; there are great differences. By failing to comply with the agreement that has been reached and the will direction that has been so clear from the government create even greater gaps, and that worries. It worries us who live and work in a rural county, but it should also worry the government. I will, of course, continue to follow this issue. I received no reply from the Minister to what came out of the dialogue with the local representatives; instead, the Minister chose to bring up the dialogue with the National Museum here in Stockholm. An answer would have been interesting, so the Minister will be happy to clarify further what emerged from the talks with the local representatives. We are still concerned and do not think we have received the answers we would have liked and clarity on this issue. But we continue to follow it. I can only ask the Minister to consider what has come to light. Now we have this construction, and it is there. But it is very frustrating that we cannot exploit its full potential. Culture is important, even in Norrland. I would ask the Minister to take this into account and to act so that there is a positive direction in this matter.
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-204	Mr President, I would like to I thank Saila Quicklund for the interpellation. My answer is that I will continue to fight for more culture to more people throughout our country. I am pleased that we are making historical investments on culture throughout our country, on art, on children's opportunities, on accessibility, on everything. We fully pepulate the country with new proposals and initiatives and prioritise investing in art and culture. I will continue to do this in general and, as a matter of fact, I will of course also ensure, through the direct dialogue that my department has with representatives of Jamtli and, above all, with the National Museum, which is the authority under the Ministry of Culture, that we work for Jamtlis's continuing branch business and that art and our common taxes reach the whole country.
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-207	Mr President, I would like to Lars Beckman has asked me what measures I would like to take to ensure that municipal leisure activities for children are not organised by one of the political organisations of the labour movement. Lars Beckman has also asked whether I believe it is a desirable order for political organisations to be responsible for municipal summer camps and recreation centres and whether I intend not to take any action against municipally funded activities requiring staff to share the values of the labour movement. Municipalities and county councils are important actors in the local work with cultural and leisure activities, which are aimed at children and young people. Cultural and leisure activities are an area in which municipalities and county councils act mainly on the basis of their general competence, which is based on the general powers under the Local Government Act. Municipalities and county councils have strong autonomy according to the form of government. This means that the scope for self-determination and own initiatives from the municipalities and county councils is large. There is nothing to prevent municipalities and county councils from purchasing cultural and leisure activities carried out by organisations with different activities. A wide variety of activities and specialisations in municipal cultural and leisure activities is an asset that contributes to local diversity. Municipalities and county councils must of course observe objectivity and impartiality and safeguard democratic fundamental values in their activities. Under the current procurement rules, contracting authorities are also required to treat suppliers in an equivalent and non-discriminatory manner. In addition, a supplier who does not win a contract has the possibility to seek judicial review if he considers that the contracting authority has infringed a provision of the acquis. In addition, municipalities and county councils must, according to the municipal equality principle, treat their members equally if there are no objective reasons for anything else. This means that members or groups of members in the same situation shall be treated equally and that there may be discrimination only on objective and objective grounds. I have confidence in the knowledge and experience that exists in the country and assume that these principles are taken into account.
i-B23wU2TXhtp2K3LGoNhdBo	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. What are Zlatan and Young Eagles connected to? I will come back to that. The background to the interpellation is simple: I want children and young people to have the right to stay in an unpolitical environment when it is a municipality that finances the business. If there are parents, parties or organisations that want to engage in leisure activities for young people without municipal subsidies and grants, I have no views on this. But Young Eagles, which I have asked questions about here, are part of the labour movement in Sweden, which Young Eagles also write on their website. This is literally what it says: In connection with the first May demonstrations and election movements, Young Örnar often participates with face painting for children, and there is a strong over-representation among Young Örnar managers who have party political assignments for the Social Democrats. It may not be surprising in view of the demands you make. I have noted that Young Eagles in job advertisements require that they share the values of the labour movement in order to be employed. In a job advertisement I saw, it even said that you need to be a member, but it did not show where. This is no problem, Mr President. Young Örnar and the Social Democrats are allowed to carry out whatever activities they want. The problem arises when a municipality subcontracts an activity to this organisation. I have noted that the Government has a great commitment to banning free schools – some free schools. I also note that Shekarabi, when he justifies his basic attitude towards non-confessional free-schools, says:.If we have a student in Sweden who is subjected to religious influence in the school, if we have a student in Sweden who receives an education that does not rely on the values that will shape our society, then we have failed. If we replace religious influence in school with political influence on municipal recreation centres or summer camps, will it also be a failure according to the Government? Or is there zero political influence from the youth organisation of the labour movement? One second you say this, and the other second you say that. Then, of course, my question to the Government will be: Is there a risk that a child in Sweden has been influenced by the Social Democratic top politicians who at the same time work at Ungå Örnar? Is there a risk of this? Yeah, I think so. I have full respect for the fact that the labour movement has been engaged in youth activities since the beginning of the 20th century. In the old Social Democratic society, Mr President, it was that it started in Young Eagles, went to the SSU, joined the Social Democrats, traded at Konsum, thought OK and, when that time came, went to Fontaine. Today, however, we no longer have such a society, but now we have a modern society. Nevertheless, I was happy when I listened to the Government's response and he said: It is insightful, Mr President. These are values that I think are important, including in the case of free schools and other activities. It gets very strange when you have a crusade in relation to certain parts but that the Government is completely silent and sees no problems whatsoever with the extensive activities outsourced to a political organisation that, in this case, is close to Young Örnar.
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-226	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for allowing me to take part in this debate on a very interesting question from the parliamentary committee Lars Beckman! During this year, when the parliamentary elections are approaching, the subject becomes particularly sensitive. I hope, or I know, that the Government understands this. I noted that the Government closed its reply to Member of Parliament Lars Beckman by saying that he has confidence that the principles are respected. That's very interesting. The Government therefore assumes that things sent out in paper form are taken into account, respected and thus converted into real documents. The Government will have to excuse me, but I expect the Government to leave the trust, which the Government is entitled to have, and move its position to ensure that it does. This is very interesting: the journey from having confidence that the system works to then taking action in the role of Minister of State, which is important for the country – i.e. moving from trust to assurance. Ensuring neutrality is a goal that we are pursuing, once again, in the run-up to the parliamentary elections. I would like to come back to the line taken by Lars Beckman during his speech on free schools, religious influence and political influence. This is very interesting. Thus, if one is against religious influence, in the sign of logic, one should be against unilateral political influence. I have absolutely nothing against the active participation of Swedish citizens in what is happening in the Swedish political debate, but I think we all expect this to happen in a balanced event. In other words, I am calling for the attitude and ambition of the Government in the course of the debate. Should the Government remain in the seat of trust, or should the Government move to the guardian's seat, where things that are on paper become reality?
i-AZXRWnB8shWnCS5jnecu1h	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Members of Parliament, for this interpellation debate! There is reason to point out at the outset what the purpose of this debate is. Now we have to go to the regulations we have – the form of government, the parliamentary order and the parliament's internal rules – to find out what an interpellation debate can be about, because the MP Lars Beckman mentions proposals that are presented by the Social Democratic Party prior to the election in September 2018 and that deal with the ban on religious schools. It is not a proposal that is being dealt with by the government. A member of the Riksdag may interpellate to a minister in a matter concerning the performance of his duties, i.e. the government's handling of matters. I am taking part in this interpellation debate as Minister of Civil Affairs and representative of the Government, not least because of my responsibilities: the regulation of local government. I'll answer from my portfolio as Secretary of State for Civil Affairs. The proposal to stop religious free schools, which is a Social Democratic electoral promise outside the government's handling of matters, cannot be the subject of this interpellation debate. This is not a forum for discussion on party political issues that lie outside the government's handling of matters. On the other hand, there are other forums, of which the President will certainly be able to inform Members of Parliament, such as general political debates held in Parliament when there are conditions for a party political debate in this House. Then we have unlimited opportunities to hold a debate outside this House on the legislative proposals presented by various parties to the electoral movement. Turning back to the legal issue that may be the subject of discussion in this debate, cultural and leisure activities, which are often aimed at children and young people, are an irregular area. There is normally no obligation for municipalities to provide such services. In contrast, municipalities also carry out cultural and leisure activities in the unregulated part based on the general powers that our municipalities have in accordance with the Local Government Act. Mr President, I would like to We have chosen a system in Sweden where we have a great deal of confidence in the country's municipalities and county councils. Local self-government in our country is protected by our constitution – the form of government. We have a decentralised welfare system in which municipalities, based on the confidence that citizens show municipalities in local and regional elections every four years, have a great deal of room for manoeuvre to regulate and carry out activities that are voluntary and that are not the responsibility of municipalities. This room for manoeuvre, of course, has certain limitations, and it is the limitations that result from our form of government on competence, among other things, but also on national legislation. Above all, there are limitations in the Local Government Act. We know that municipalities are only allowed to deal with matters of general interest related to the municipality's area and its citizens. There are also other restrictions on the way in which you treat your citizens. On the basis of the questions raised here, it is important to relate to these limitations.
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-241	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for this political science lesson. I have full respect for the fact that the Government wants to spend half of its speech not to debate or discuss what is at issue. I have asked three specific questions. What measures does the Government intend to take to ensure that municipal leisure activities for children are not organised by one of the political organisations of the labour movement? Does the Government consider it desirable for political organisations to be responsible for municipal summer camps and recreation centres? That is a concrete question. It is, of course, free to find, as a government representative, urgent issues to pursue. My simple question to the Government is: Does the Government see any risk of a child somewhere in Sweden – in Kiruna, Ystad, Gävle or Uppsala – being politically affected by an employee when Young Örnar demands that you share the values of the labour movement to work there? Mr President, I would like to Let's take a test. The municipal recreation centre in Municipality X is looking for employees. In that job advertisement it would then say: We demand that you share the values of the labour movement in order to work in this municipal activity. Mr President, I would like to I don't think that would be a possible job ad. Nor is it desirable. I think it should be a right to be able to send your children to leisure activities where you do not share the values of the labour movement. In Forsbacka outside Gävle, for example, there is a recreation centre called Knoppen. It is a very good business, and I have friends who have worked there and have no views on the content itself. But it is still the case that Young Eagles are demanding that they share the values of the labour movement in order to work there. If I live in this place, where should I send my children? That question can be answered by a yes or a no. Does the Government see any risk that a child in Sweden may have been influenced ideologically, politically or otherwise in an activity that has been financed by the municipality? When I Googled and looked at job ads, I saw that you should send your application for work to Sveavägen 68. I strongly associate this address with a political party in Sweden. Young Örnar and the Social Democrats are allowed to carry out all the youth activities they want. But the basic problem arises when you carry out the activities of a municipality and get tax money for your business, tax money that you and I pay for a political activity that demands that those who work there share the values of the labour movement. You have a very good ability to have an amazing double standard. If an internationally renowned Swedish football player sells lottery tickets or arranges games, the Government collapses. But the same minister represents a party that has sold lots on credit to over-indebted. The same party that wants to ban certain things and schools happily arrange youth camps with their youth organisation. Mr President, I would like to Somehow it feels like you don't have a line, but it seems like when Father super is it right. But I could be wrong. I'd be happy to convince you. I want to know if the Government sees a risk that a child in Sweden has ever been influenced ideologically in the activities of Young Örnar?
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-252	Mr President, I would like to I listened carefully to the thoughts of the Government expressed here. When I came to Sweden about 40 years ago I was told that whoever becomes a member of LO automatically becomes a member of the Social Democratic Party. I also heard that the Government referred to an unregulated area in relation to these things. Then it is part of the Government portfolio to do something about it. The situation is becoming more complicated when it comes to dealing with data security issues, fake news and so on. Why, then, can we not do the same here too, i.e. streamline and not allow for misinterpretation and the creation of errors? Everyone would benefit from that, above all democracy would benefit from it. I would like to say once again, at the risk of nagging the Council of State, that it is a question of moving from trust to assurance, so to speak. Confidence, of course, exists. But when it comes to reconciliation if trust works, how are things?
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-255	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking the Members of Parliament once again for this interpellation debate and, not least, for the broad social commitment that is taking off on these issues relating to gaming and lottery law issues and, not least, constitutional issues highlighted in this debate. It is gratifying that there is such a broad commitment in this House. Let me also point out that, as Minister for Local Affairs, I welcome the fact that there are members of parliament who take into account the everyday life of the municipality – including in the debate here – and who have a municipal law perspective on the political debate. There should be more actors who take into account the conditions of municipalities and bring municipal reality into the debate in this House. Having said that, I would like to emphasise once again that municipal affairs should be discussed in municipalities when there is no legal regulation and forced activity of a welfare nature. Lars Beckman is free, within the framework of his municipal policy engagement in the municipality concerned, to highlight these issues, to call the elected representatives and those who lead Gävle municipality to account for this position and to ensure that the municipal management in Gävle complies with the municipal law regulations and the procurement law that can be considered and that may be relevant in this situation. However, when it comes to the debate here in Parliament, we must start from the national regulatory framework in accordance with our constitution and parliamentary order. I would like to remind Members of Parliament once again that we have a municipal law. It lays down the general limitations which exist in the scope of the local authority and in the autonomy of the local government. Then there is special legislation in regulated areas, which also simply imposes some restrictions and regulations on which local authorities must relate. When it comes to the purchase and financing of activities carried out by private operators, we have a very detailed regulatory framework in, among other things, the Public Procurement Act and the Freedom of Choice Act, which imposes general requirements on the conduct of contracting authorities. Mr President, I would like to It is very difficult for me in a debate like this to speak on individual issues relating to public procurement. However, I am pleased that in our country there are competition and procurement law enforcement authorities that supervise the municipalities. If it is the case that municipalities commit criminal offences or act in breach of, among other things, the procurement rules, we obviously have a system for this that is responsible, among other things, for the Competition Authority. From the general point of view, I would like to remind Members once again that we should respect local self-government. We should respect the distinction that is made in regulated areas where municipalities have to deal with legal obligations and those areas where municipalities voluntarily choose to provide services and provide services to municipal citizens.
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-264	Mr President, I would like to Here we have a minister who has been in a crusade against the country's free schools. We have a minister who has been in a crusade against profits in welfare because he wants to change the legislation. Now the same minister stands here and refers to someone else. It was someone else's responsibility. After 14 minutes, we still have not received the simple answer from the Government. Like me, does he think that children should have the right to live in an environment that is unpolitical? Does the Government consider that children in Sweden who go to a leisure activity should have the right to stay in an unpolitical environment? That question can be answered by yes or no. If the Government considers, as I really hope, that children should have the right to be in a business – a recreation centre, a leisure club or a summer camp funded by our tax funds – which is non-political, what does the Government intend to do about it? The Government has the full power to present a bill to the Swedish Parliament together with its friends in the Government, just as the Government does in other areas where the Government travels country and country around because he wants to change the legislation. If the Government makes a well-balanced proposal to the Swedish parliament and says: Of course, we should not have political side organisations that are allowed to carry out activities on a contract basis that require that they share the values of the labour movement, and we should ensure that children should have the right to be in a leisure club in an unpolitical environment – I am relatively certain that such legislation would probably receive broad support in the Swedish parliament. But it is based on the fact that the Government has seen the problem and answers the question: Is there a risk that a child in Sweden has influenced ideologically by an organisation related to the Social Democrats?
i-d2b1d1de6d7213e5-270	Mr President, I would like to To conclude, I would like to thank Lars Beckman once again and the others who took part in the discussion for this debate. I regret that I have seen as my task to inform Members of Parliament of the constitutional conditions that apply to interpellation debates. I look forward to the discussion taking place in forums where there are legal conditions to approach the issues that are more of a general nature highlighted in this debate. It is important that we respect our governance and parliamentary order in relation to this type of debate. But it is also important that we stand up for municipal self-government, which seems to be under attack in today's political dialogue and dialogue. Many proposals highlighted by different parties and actors are aimed at limiting municipal self-government. This government has clearly taken a stand for the decentralised welfare model and our way of organising welfare based on the autonomy of our municipalities and county councils. It's a way that's worth defending. There will always be views on how self-government is exercised in individual municipalities and county councils. There will always be those who believe that those municipalities make wrong choices on the basis of the political and fundamental positions that exist in our country among the citizens. It is ultimately the citizens of the municipality, the members of the municipality, who, in general and free elections, have the right to re-elect or remove the municipal representatives. This can of course be a question that is discussed in Gävle municipality in the coming months.
