i-ed3cbcd0b77476c9-5	Madam President, I would like Jeff Ahl has asked me, firstly, how many of the 80 000 asylum seekers allegedly expelled from the country by the then Minister for the Interior, Anders Ygeman, who has actually been expelled, and, secondly, how I and the government will work to ensure that this objective, that 80 000 asylum seekers be rejected, will be implemented before the end of their term of office. At that time, Minister of the Interior Anders Ygeman's estimate that 60,000 people, possibly up to 80,000 people, could return in the next few years was based mainly on a couple of general assumptions: on the one hand, that the Migration Board would decide about 160,000 cases, and on the other, that approximately 50% of the Migration Board's resolved cases would result in a removal decision. It can be noted that during the period 2014 to May 2018, almost 65 000 people left Sweden after a decision by the Finnish Immigration Service or the Swedish Police Authority. Return issues are a priority for the government. In order to maintain a long-term sustainable and humane migration policy, it is crucial that persons who, after a legally secure examination for asylum reasons, have received a negative decision on whether to leave their country of origin or another country should return as quickly as possible. A number of measures have been taken to increase the number of returnees, both on their own and under duress. Among other things, additional resources have been provided to the responsible authorities, return liaison officers have been deployed to embassies in several beneficiary countries and a continuous dialogue is conducted with the countries of origin. A readmission agreement was concluded with Afghanistan in autumn 2016. Furthermore, the number of detention places will have increased by nearly 80 per cent during the term of office by the end of the year, and the Migration Agency has been granted funds to increase capacity further. Several legislative changes entered into force on 1 November 2017, including rules that clarify the division of responsibilities between authorities and provide them with better tools to work with returnees. Another amendment will enter into force on 1 July 2018 and will extend the scope for workplace inspections. In addition, the referrals to the report are currently being analysed (SOU 2017:93). The investigation proposes, among other things, that the Police Authority in the samb and with internal immigration control should be given increased opportunities to take fingerprints, and to take care of passports or other identity documents. The proposed measures provide better opportunities to detect persons who are not entitled to reside in Sweden and facilitate the enforcement of expulsion decisions. The government also supported a series of measures at European level for a more effective return. For example, Frontex has been given an increased mandate in the area of return, and the Commission is conducting dialogues and negotiations with third countries in order to achieve better cooperation. The measures now reported have contributed to an improvement in return work. The impact of the reported measures is too early to assess and therefore also the need for further action. The government is following the issue and is prepared to take further action if necessary.
i-ed3cbcd0b77476c9-14	Madam President, I would like Sweden's major question of fate is the return of all system-burdening immigrants. Only if we send these hundreds of thousands home can we save the welfare of the system collapse of which it is in its initial phase. This government has shown an almost apathetic attitude to migration crises as well as migration. Let us begin in 2015, when the migration crisis struck with full force and lots of strangers poured across Sweden's borders. What did the government do? It stood passively and watched, and the Prime Minister held square meetings of a free-religious nature and spoke of no walls being erected in his Europe. Shortly thereafter, the border controls were pushed through in the Swedish parliament. The hypocrisy was thus total, and crying environmentalists talked about that there was a reality to adapt to. After the mass migration wave in 2015, the construction-no-murar rhetoric was replaced by order-and-edera rhetoric, and the Home Secretary promised that about 80 000 would be rejected. Then we read about horror examples, where rejections of individuals cost hundreds of thousands of dollars because they sit on a chartered plane for, for example, 149 people. The police are screaming out about how ineffective the expulsions function as a result of political paralysis. Is this really order, as the government claims? No. Continued apathy and chaos characterize this government. The Minister of Migration is following this up with numbers. The Minister says that 65 000 have been sent home or returned voluntarily since 2014. But it was 2016 that we were going to talk about and the 80 000 that the then Home Secretary promised to go home. The 65,000 just prove that you have failed completely. This is because you do not want to send those who have been rejected home. You are maintaining inefficient systems for the continuation and permanence of mass immigration. It is possible to send home hundreds of thousands within a few years. Alternatives for Sweden are the only party that wants and can do this. Immigrants' residence permits as well as their citizenship from 2000 onwards will be reviewed and reviewed. The whole state apparatus must be mobilized so that we can begin a massive mass deportation. Rejections for those with a residence permit shall be carried out by officials and shall not, as is currently the case, be subject to judicial appeal. Coordination between authorities and, for example, the purchase of security services to assist in expulsions should be put in place to enable this to be done effectively, and the expulsions should take place within a few days of the decision being taken. No one should be able to hide. Those who hide illegal immigrants are to be fined, and those who tip off where illegal immigrants are hiding and who hide them are to be rewarded with tips salary equal to the fines the state collects on this. In this way we can get effective methods of expulsion on the ground instead of the witting that this government, of course, is doing.
i-ed3cbcd0b77476c9-23	Madam President, I would like There's no doubt where Jeff Ahl has his sympathies. Obviously, even the Swedish Democrats' programme is no longer enough to capture Jeff Ahls's sympathies. It is said that many strangers have come to Sweden, but I stand for information and facts: It is refugees who have come to Sweden to seek asylum. In 2015, Sweden was the country in Europe that received the most applications for asylum per capita. Sweden still maintains a good order, in which we allow every individual seeking asylum in Sweden to have his or her case tried. The government and our government agencies are working hard on exactly what Jeff Ahl asked a question about: the return work. Jeff Ahls's question is based on an interview by the then Home Secretary Anders Ygeman in Dagens Industri. I think I'd like Jeff Ahl to read a little better about his questions in the future. In fact, the then Home Affairs Minister was given a question that reflected on the situation that arose in 2015, and he expressed the view that in any case it would be 60 000 people, but that it could be up to 80 000 people. This is how the Minister for the Interior responded to the fact that Sweden received a large number in 2015. The answer was thus based on what the government can do for its assessment during its term of office. When we look at the years that have been very intense for the reception of refugees and important for the return work, we see that it is not a numerical one. It is not possible for a minister to stand here and trixing with some figures, but almost 65 000 people have returned. The Government has decided in every way, with the support of the Riksdag, on amendments that are legislative reinforcements and that entered into force in November 2017 and also now. We have one on workplace inspections, which will enter into force on 1 July and which will have a major impact on not being able to reside in Sweden unless you have permission to be or work here. Work is in progress, and the starting point is of course that we should have order in the asylum process as well as in the important return work.
i-ed3cbcd0b77476c9-29	Madam President, I would like It is ridiculous that the Minister for Migration, who represents a government that has lied to the Swedish people year in and year out that immigration pays off, stands and talks about facts. All of a sudden, immigration was not so profitable. All of a sudden, you had to send people home. You weren't supposed to do that, Heléne Fritzon. You wouldn't build any walls. You were supposed to take everyone. You are changing both in terms of the facts and in terms of your policy. You have no credibility left. The same is true when the Minister for Migration is now talking about taking a little more action here and a little more action there and perhaps taking a little more action. 65 000, as the Minister for Migration talks about, was thus between 2014 and 2018. I am talking about the 60 000 – 80 000 that the then Home Secretary was talking about. It was between 2016 and 2018, not between 2014 and 2018 – hence numerically confusing t. Madam President, I would like The Minister for Migration and the Government do not care if they succeed in the expulsions or not, because they have already achieved the goal that the globalists want to achieve. The fact that it has even managed to get so many immigrants to Sweden is due to the lack of borders, which are due to our EU membership. It is no secret that the EU bureaucracy is an international centre of globalists and that it is there that the right decisions are made. Anyone who really believes that the Minister for Migration or the Government is in charge of this country will have to think again, because everyone knows that Sweden and its early and present governments in particular always bow to the will of the EU bureaucracy. You've ruined a success story, and you're not even trying to save it. Sweden and the Swedes were a country and a people that other countries looked up to once. We were a safe country, with strong national internal solidarity, and we were an ethnic and culturally homogeneous and safe country. You destroyed globalists, and you continue to do so. Nothing is as important as sending home all those who have come here to parasite on our welfare, commit crimes or force us Swedes to live by their way of life. Large-scale re-migration of those who refuse to work and adapt is the only recipe. It does not matter whether they have received citizenship or a residence permit, because it is only we Swedes who have a natural and traditional right to our country. We're the host people and the original people, and they're guests. When Alternatives for Sweden gain influence and power, they will be sent home, in quantities and efficiently. The only non-globalist party in the Swedish parliament is currently the Swedish Democrats, but today this party is governed by a small career-hungry liberal clique, which took over the helm when Jimmie Åkesson got sick. The Swedish democrats, as it stands today, are unfortunately in favour of an immigration net. For example, they wanted to double quota immigration long before the government, and they want to be voluntary in nature, i.e. like the government. I hope that the nationalists in the party succeed in taking over the helm again. I believe that alternatives for Sweden are required to enter the Riksdag and can act as a blowtorch in order for this to become a reality. Madam President, I would like Today, there is only one party that has a policy of dismantling multicultural, destructive society and carrying out large-scale and effective migration, and that is Alternatives for Sweden.
i-ed3cbcd0b77476c9-37	Madam President, I would like I intend to dwell on the question that Jeff Ahl has asked about the return work. I overlook the constant hopes of ridicule and of lies and the threat and hate debates against immigrants. I am very tired of hearing these voices, and it must be embarrassing to be driven as politicians by such hatred in their political work. The issue of return is important for the government. I can mention to Jeff Ahl that the dark images that were painted of what would happen to Sweden when we took our joint responsibility in Europe for the asylum trial have not been verified. Today we can report a very good economy to Sweden. We can state that in these years unemployment has fallen substantially. We have more work every day. People with foreign background who have come to Sweden are also currently on the Swedish labour market. They live, live and work in Sweden and are not, as Jeff Ahl puts it, any guests in our society. If you have the right to stay in Sweden, you should have a job to go to, have a place to live, be able to take civil responsibility and function in Swedish democracy. If, on the other hand, you do not have the right to stay in Sweden, you will of course return, speaking of Jeff Ahls' question. This work is under way with very high intensity. The Government's regulation letter to the Finnish Immigration Service on data and funding allocation clearly states that both the Finnish Immigration Service and the Swedish Police Authority have the task of streamlining the implementation of expulsion and expulsion decisions, in order to increase the number of executed decisions. We're going in that direction. That is why the government has considered and indicated in the budget every year that more detention places are needed. Currently there are 357 detention places in five locations in Sweden, and during this year the number of detention places will be 456. That is an increase in these years of 80%. Work is also under way to increase the number of seats in 2019 and beyond. Strong action is needed, and this has been presented by the government in the area of return.
i-ed3cbcd0b77476c9-42	Madam President, I would like Of course, the minister overlooks the truth. It is you, Heléne Fritzon, who has been lying for a long time. You change your politics and your rhetoric depending on where the wind blows. I'm sick of the government because you hate your own people. I don't hate anybody. I care for my own people. Then other countries and other politicians will have to protect their peoples. But you do not care for your own people; it is the truth. You have destroyed Swedish welfare. Reports show, for example, that Swedish children today die in health care because of overload. During the mass migration wave, MSB pointed out very clearly that migration has an overloading effect on health care. But it's nothing that this government cares about. You would rather accept full-grown men, preferably those who also lie about their age, like the Afghans whom you have received just recently. You don't invest anything in Swedish welfare and the Swedish people. Madam President, I would like The day you globalists have lost and we nationalists have won – that day comes – is the day when all the system-burdening immigrants you have imported have been sent home, the day when no mosques are on the Swedish bottom, the day when the globalist EU bureaucrats – like Jean-Claude-Claude Juncker or the imperialist in Germany, Angela Merkel – rule over Sweden has come to an end and the day we have restored control of our own border. Madam President, I would like This is the country of the Swedes. In this fetal soil rests the bones of our ancestors. It is the sacrifices of our ancestors that have made us have our own country. None other than us Swedes have the traditional and natural right to Sweden. Therefore, those who come here as guests should adapt or go home. It's really simple. Sweden for the Swedes, the Swedes for Sweden.
i-ed3cbcd0b77476c9-47	Madam President, I would like This is a very strange debate. Jeff Ahl asks a concrete question about return and gives a national and right-wing speech as if he thinks that is what the Swedish Parliament wants to listen to today. I know I'm not convincing Jeff Ahl, but I think I can give him some insight. Jeff Ahl says that immigrants are system-burdening and will leave immediately. Jeff Ahl can then reflect on how many times he has taken a taxi with a driver who has foreign origin, if someone with foreign origin has cleaned the hotel room for him at some point or if a medical doctor Jeff Ahl has met may come from another country. There is reason to reflect on the values that Jeff Ahl has put forward in the parliamentary debate today. He does not stick to the question in any way, but takes this as an opportunity to bring out any new party political right or national angle on his new affiliation. I have had reason today to recall the policy of the Government in the field of asylum and migration, but above all in the area of return, that is to say, what Jeff Ahl has made his interpellation about. I note that it has allowed me to tell Jeff Ahl and the Parliament that there is intensive work going on on with the return issues. They are important for us to make Sweden work well and for us to stand up for our fundamental values of a functioning asylum law.
