i-74ae51410f0d616e-4	Madam President, I would like It is certainly not the first time that questions about pharmacies have been debated in this House – nor for the first time in this parliamentary term. I can guess it won't be the last one either. As we have reminded several times before, there has been a major change from the fact that the Alliance Government made sure that Sweden would no longer be one of three countries in the world with monopoly in pharmacy. So we were not in very good company. In particular, pharmacy regulation has meant better availability of medicines for patients. The number of pharmacies has increased by 52 percent, according to the latest figures from the industry. Opening hours have increased by an average of 11 hours per week. The number of pharmacies open on Sunday has increased by 251 percent. This has made it easier to get the medicines you need better when you need them – all over the country. Above all, it is important that the change has taken place in all types of counties, from north to south. The proposals we have to decide on now are that the new rules allow all pharmacists to operate through pharmacists. It is a further step to broaden the range. The legislative amendments also concern clarification of the basic task, supply and supply obligations and return of medicinal products. It is also about information and advice and about replacing one medicine with another. There is much in this that we agree on, but there are a few things where we think the government is going the wrong way. Among other things, it is about the competence requirements that the government wants to regulate in detail. We know that there is a shortage of pharmacists today. It is important that the person who provides medicines and has contacts with the customer has the right skills for what he or she does. That is also the case today. There is nothing in the follow-up that has been done to show that skills have been reduced or that uncertainty for customers and patients has become worse. Yet the government wants to go in and regulate in detail who is allowed to do what. This is not the case otherwise in Swedish health care. The proposal may seem a little strange when, at the same time at the health centre or at the clinic in the hospital, you actually leave the responsibility to the head of the clinic – the one who is in place, the one who knows his colleagues' skills and the one who can make the best use of the skills. That is where you get that trust, and that is where you take that responsibility. It's working fine. Now the government wants to go in and regulate in detail in a way that will put you at risk of having to reduce opening hours and not to use other skills that are important in pharmacies, such as pharmacy technicians. We believe that this is the wrong way to go, which is why I am calling for this part to be rejected and therefore for reservation No 1. The second part, in which we believe that the government has not gone far enough, concerns the return of medicines. The medicines that need an unbroken chain, chilled or frozen, are proposed to be exempted from the right of return. Only 5% of all medicines are so designed that they must be chilled or frozen all the way from delivery to customer until use. It is clear that the return of this type of goods is more complex. But even if it is only 5 percent of the medicines, it is a quarter of the value of the drugs sold. This has a major impact on the possibility for a small pharmacy operator to afford these medicines at home. These are drugs that are often very important for large patient groups, not least diabetics and rheumatics. It is clear that when it comes to expensive medicines, where the pharmacist or pharmacist has to take full financial responsibility for ordering home and cannot return if the customer chooses to buy his medicines elsewhere, the entire financial risk lies with the individual small operator. It reduces the possibility for small operators to provide what patients and customers need immediately. We believe that the government must come back with a more detailed investigation into how such a return right can be introduced. Today there is not enough evidence, but I am pleased that there is support in the majority of the committee to call on the government to come back on this issue. These were my comments on the matter.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-17	Madam President, I would like Today's debate is, as I said, about the proposal Quality and safety in the pharmacy market. Since the liberalisation of the pharmacy market took place in 2009, it has been noted that the market has matured, that more pharmacies have been added and that opening hours have increased, as the previous speaker pointed out. But it is also the case that several investigations have revealed shortcomings. Changes and measures have been proposed for the proper and safe management of medicines. Some have also been corrected afterwards. For good and equal care, it is essential that we, as patients, be sure that we receive our medicines when we need them, that we can afford to collect them and that we can rely on the advice and information we receive from the staff of pharmacies. Of course, it is also important for us to know that the medicines have been handled in the way they are supposed to. Several signs show that availability has actually decreased to some extent, that pharmacies do not work with skills development as they should and that the time for advice has been reduced. The government therefore believes that there is reason to take some steps to ensure that the pharmaceutical management of pharmacies is of high quality and safe, as well as that the availability and service is good. For us Social Democrats, it is difficult to understand the objections made by certain parties here in Parliament when it comes to increasing the quality and safety of advice and the processing of medicines. It is the basic tasks of pharmacies that should be at the centre, that is to ensure that we get our assigned medicines quickly and safely, to provide qualified information and advice, and to carry out and inform about the exchange of medicines. With the proposals presented by the government, it becomes clear to all of us what demands are made on the part of pharmacies that is publicly funded. Madam President, I would like Today, there are no explicit requirements as to the skills required for the delivery of medicinal products to patients. There are different assessments in different pharmacies. It is a very qualified task to receive orders, complete medicines, give advice and inform about how medicines work and how they should be taken, as well as to provide information on exchange. Then it is reasonable, like the government, to demand that it be a pharmacist, that is, a licensed pharmacist or pharmacist, who performs these tasks and that the basic requirements be laid down by law. As I said, we Social Democrats support the government's position and proposals. The proposal also contains a number of proposals aimed at maintaining the quality and safety of the pharmacy market. The committee's report sets out, among other things, how the right to return medicines is important in order to stimulate pharmacies to have more expensive medicines in stock. We Social Democrats welcome the proposal. This increases the availability for patients, who then do not have to wait for their medicines or search for pharmacies that have the medicines at home. As regards medicines requiring cold and freezing, we have listened to the government, which has weighed the proposals against each other and concluded that the disadvantages outweigh the benefits. Madam President, I would like We also support the Government's analysis that pharmacists play a role in ensuring good availability of medicines throughout the country. We welcome the proposal to give all outpatient pharmacies the opportunity to use representation. We also welcome the proposals for regulations and restrictions put forward in the bill. We also support the other proposals in the proposal which aim to increase the quality and safety of the pharmacy market.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-28	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation No 1. Emma Henriksson has mentioned certain things that can be repeated. This applies to what has happened since the re-regulation of the pharmacy market in 2009. The number of pharmacies has increased by 463, which means 52 percent. Accessibility has increased significantly. The number of open pharmacies on Sunday has almost tripled to 526. Average opening hours have increased by over 11 hours per week. We are some who remember the misery of the monopoly's time, when medicines were not obtained from Saturdays at one o'clock, when the pharmacy closed, until Monday morning at nine or ten o'clock when the pharmacy reopened. The re-regulation of the pharmacy market has thus been successful and has benefited our citizens. The Social Democrats and the Left have been opposed. They have been very critical of this reregulation. In order to obtain evidence of its cause, the present government set up a state inquiry. But this study actually showed that the re-regulation was essentially good. The study showed that skills and quality have been maintained and that security is the same as before the reform. More than 95% of prescription customers get their medicines immediately when they get to the pharmacy. The remaining medicines are ordered in accordance with the 24-hour rule. The pharmacy density has thus increased significantly in Sweden, but we are still far down in the league compared to the rest of Europe. We have 14 pharmacies per 100 000 inhabitants – in Europe it is on average 31. It is very gratifying that so many of the customers at pharmacies are satisfied. 81 percent say they are very satisfied, and 99 percent are satisfied. It's almost maximum. We can now see that the government has accepted the new pharmacy reform, despite previous objections. We think that's a good thing. We also do not see customers or patients who write in the report that it would be bad. The proposal that today's case deals with is called Quality and Safety in the pharmacy market. Here the government has several proposals aimed at improving quality and safety, which is a good thing. One example is that all pharmacies should be given the right to have a pharmacy representative. But in a few areas we do not agree with the government. The first is the proposal that only pharmacists should be allowed to deal with prescription medicines. Pharmacyuter should be responsible – and of course – for prescription management and advice in pharmacies. However, pharmacists should engage in the pharmaceutical work and be able to delegate other tasks to other staff. There is also a great shortage of pharmacists today. The consequence of this rule requirement will be poor quality, as we do not have many people who can do this. Longer waiting times and even reduced opening hours are among the things highlighted. Madam President, I would like We therefore oppose the detailed management of pharmacies in the manner set out in the bill. This can hinder both efficiency and accessibility. The lack of pharmacists makes it really problematic. Nor is it taking advantage of the expertise of pharmacists who already work at pharmacies. Nor can it be seen that the government justified why this regulation is necessary. There is no indication of faults or shortcomings that would have been a threat to patient safety. We therefore wish to reject the requirement that only pharmacists should be allowed to process and provide advice to prescription customers. The second thing on which we do not agree with the government – but a majority in the committee has agreed – is the proposal that the right to return medicines should now also include refrigerated goods. It didn't take the government too. It's a complex issue. But this change affects – if it goes through – the availability of medicines in a positive way by the pharmacies daring to order home for fast delivery to their customers and being able to return the leftover medicines. The committee believes that the government should come back with such a proposal. We can see that pharmaceutical costs are constantly evolving. Since 2006, they have increased by nearly 13 billion and now represent a cost of almost 44 billion. It is almost as much as the defence costs per year – an almost unimaginable sum and development. More than 6.6 million people in Sweden took out at least one medicine in 2017. That's 66 percent of the population. Women use much more drugs than men. This is a major challenge for our society and something one must try to reduce in some way. But it is a different matter from today's and something for the next government to consider.
i-CJ6NKhn11dgcMRP6jCGCRi	Madam President, I would like I support our Amendment No 4. For the Swedish Democrats, it is important to have a safe, efficient and equal supply of medicines. The pharmacy market must have good availability and reliable service. As a customer, you should have the right to receive your medicine when you need it, and you should be able to trust that it is available. You should feel sure that you are getting the right medicine and dose and that the person selling the medicine to you can give you the information you need. We are therefore in favour of the proposals to develop supervision in the pharmacy market and to clarify the basic tasks of pharmacies. We are also in favour of clarifying the law on the trade in medicinal products as regards the supply obligation of pharmacies and the supply obligation of wholesalers. The Swedish Democrats share several of the views of the referral bodies and reject the proposal to introduce a geographical restriction on the establishment of pharmacists. As the New Pharmacy Market Investigation points out, there is little risk that pharmacists would compete out of outpatient pharmacies or influence the establishment of new pharmacies. We believe that competition is beneficial and creates more choice and better accessibility for the customer. Arguments to prevent the establishment of pharmacists can also be used for increased e-commerce of medicines. We believe that e-commerce is a valuable complement to physical pharmacies by improving the availability of medicines in some cases. This also applies to pharmacists. Madam President, I would like The proposal proposes that the government or the authority that the government decides should be allowed to issue regulations on how prescriptions should be handled and on exemptions from requirements for pharmaceutical competence. We note that the Government is thereby withdrawing from the New Pharmacy Market Investigation's proposal for a regulation that requires all aspects of prescription processing to be carried out by a pharmacist. The regulation proposed by the government provides an opportunity to leave room for different conditions in different pharmacies. This requires, however, that the authority or authorities dealing with regulations and supervision do so without too much detailed regulation of how advice and processing should be done. In our opinion, the requirements for safe and effective handling of medicinal products should be high and supervision should be sharp.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-45	Madam President, I would like Listeners, viewers and listeners! You may think I'm getting tangled with saying that, but the red-green feminist government is working systematically and very purposefully for a long-term sustainable welfare society. A well-functioning system for the provision of medicines is, of course, an important part of the society we want to see in the Green Party. The Social Committee proposes that the Riksdag adopt the proposals the Government makes in its proposal Quality and safety in the pharmacy market. The proposal has rendered a number of accompanying motions which have resulted in some reservations and unfortunately also in an announcement. The notice concerns the issue of the right of return to pharmacies of over-ordered medicinal products requiring refrigerated or frozen storage. Neither the government nor the investigation has missed that question, as you might think when you hear the debaters, but they have done a pretty solid job with it. D e has weighed the costs and disadvantages of the right to return to these products and concluded that the disadvantages are currently under consideration. The pharmaceutical industry association points out in its referral that if the return right were to cover these medicines, substantial investments in the retail trade and retail chains would be required to ensure that returned cold goods are of such quality that they are currant and can be re-entered into a marketable warehouse. I think that this should be listened to and taken on board. Major changes will also be needed in the work of the MPA in the form of increased inspection frequency to ensure this. It's not supposed to lead to bad goods for customers. We still have to agree on that. It may also be useful to note that the investigation on which the Government's proposal is based does not propose anything like this, but on the contrary says that it may be applicable at some point in the future when the possibilities exist, i.e. when the technology is developed, but not at present. It is quite clear that it is not appropriate to introduce the right of return for goods which must have an unbroken and safe cooling chain in order to maintain their quality. That is why I find it a little strange that the committee has gathered a majority in favour of a declaration that the government should produce a proposal on the right of return covering these medicines right now. There is often talk of politicians handling taxpayers' money with care and with reason. To launch a new investigation – as one has to do, as has been pointed out by opposition representatives – when the issue has recently been investigated so thoroughly and the investigator has concluded that the technical conditions currently exist cannot, I believe, be anything more than another example of the waste of resources that the alliance parties are engaged in. The only explanation I can see is that they have some kind of competition between committees about which committee manages to create the most announcements, however crazy they may be. I think this is an example of a sandbox, which I did not think the parliament could be turned into irresponsible politicians. I support the proposal in the report, Madam President.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-53	Madam President, I would like The former alliance government sold out Apoteket AB. The change was absolutely ideologically motivated and perhaps based on the wrong starting point that medicines are a retail issue and not a part of health care. As with the other business of the Right, it was an extremely bad deal for the State. One can of course look at the increase in the value of those who entered the pharmacy market and who they favored. Is it the small family-run pharmacies that have come up in the butter? You can hardly say that. I'll get back to that. In addition, liberalisation was very different across the country in terms of accessibility. I live on Kungsholmen and have extremely high availability – I have five pharmacies 200 – 500 meters away. That's amazing. I can pick and choose. If I'd lived in Likenäs in Värmland, it wouldn't have been the same hope. Apoteket Kronan in Likenäs should now be closed for 11 weeks. Last year Apoteket received SEK 359 972 in state aid due to its location. This is the highest level of support in the Kronan Group. Travel time for residents in Klarälvsdalen is now 50 minutes by car. You could say that it can happen when the market knocks on. Of the new pharmacies established after privatisation, virtually all have ended up in cities, both large and slightly smaller. The growth in cities has been 356 pharmacies or 39 percent. No pharmacy has been established in sparsely populated areas, but there have been six new pharmacies in urban countryside. As far as competition is concerned, the issue was raised as that now everyone would have the opportunity to enter the pharmacy market. It didn't really happen that way. Apotek Hjärtat's market share now amounts to 25 percent, and it has become an oligopoly of this. The government proposes in the bill some changes to the pharmacy system that the Left Party really welcomes. It's a very good investigation. The Swedish pharmaceutical policy should assume that all people living in Sweden should have the right to the medicine they need and information on how to use the medicine properly. It is a consumer issue, we think, and also a patient issue. I am not surprised that the Center, the KD and the Moderates are annoyed that only pharmacists should be allowed to handle prescription matters. They often look at the needs of the market more than the needs of consumers. Accessibility is about so much more than the number of pharmacies per inhabitant. The possibility to get the medicines you need should never be controlled by which county council you live in, which pharmacy owner you have closest or if the product is stored right there. Everyone must have the right to safe and secure use of medicines through impartial and high-quality medical advice by competent staff, whether in the case of prescribed or non-prescription medicines. We in the Left Party said no to the liberalisation of pharmacies because we saw that it was market ideology that governed. We think that a fairly well-functioning system was broken. If Apoteket AB had been wanted to get going, it would have been possible to give it a directive, would it not? For example, to expand opening hours, for sure it is good to be able to go to the pharmacy on a Sunday at. 14. Sweden built one of the world's most modern, cost-effective and safe pharmacy systems. The state procured all drugs centrally and kept costs down by no intermediaries profiting from supplying pharmacies with medicines. The system therefore led to relatively low prices, but producers were still well paid. It rewarded the production and development of new and ever better medicines. The former bourgeois government, in the context of liberalisation, in practice paid the pharmacy chains to open up more pharmacies. This was done by the state giving owners the right to negotiate the purchase price for original medicines themselves. A large part of the pharmaceutical market – about two thirds – has thus disappeared from the transparent and cost-effective traditional Swedish price regulation system. This means that the purchase discount on these medicines – about SEK 500 million a year – now goes to the owners of pharmacies and not taxpayers. The result has been a little higher prices for medicines. This is to be paid by the State, as the medicines are subsidised. We think that the previous cost effect iva model should be reintroduced. Instead of subsidising wholesale chains at the expense of pharmaceutical customers and taxpayers, the State should take over responsibility for the procurement of medicines. It may be very familiar nowadays, but we want more for welfare and less for the market. I request the approval of reservation 5 and the rejection of the other motions.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-67	Madam President, I would like It is a bit sad to hear in the debate the Left Party talking about pharmacy regulation as something that has hit citizens when it is actually something that has greatly benefited those who need medicines. Above all, it has benefited those who need medicines every day to feel better than they had done without medicines and hopefully even good. It is true that the number of pharmacies has increased most in metropolitan areas, but it was also there that the supply was previously the worst. We were extremely poor compared to other countries, not least other countries in Europe. You can find the numbers black and white. How many pharmacies do we have per 100,000 inhabitants? Where's the density highest? In Jämtland. Where is it still the lowest? In Stockholm. But in every county there has been an improvement. Today, only 1% of the population has more than 20 minutes to the nearest pharmacy. Almost four out of five can reach a pharmacy within five minutes. These developments have taken place at the same time as we have seen demographic change and, at the same time, more people are moving from the countryside to the big city. Yet we have ensured that pharmacy density has improved and that more people have the opportunity to come to a pharmacy nearby. My question to Karin Rågsjö is: Don't you see the risks that are increasing? You're making detailed demands on who's going to do what in the pharmacy. These detailed requirements are much more governing than those of a health centre or an operating department. Do you not see the risks of even more pharmacies that will be forced to close in summer and that will be forced to close during times when people show that they want to go there?
i-74ae51410f0d616e-72	Madam President, I would like When I go to the health centre, I would like to meet a trained nurse or a trained doctor who has the right skills. I wonder what's going on when I'm in a pharmacy– I've actually been through this – asking about the medicine that I'm going to pick up at the time and can't get an answer. I can look this up in Fass. I can move on with that. But I think it goes without saying that you should have a maximum of trained staff who do business. It is patient-proof, and it benefits consumers. These are the people we should benefit from in this; I think that goes without saying. It's great that I, who live in Stockholm city centre, have a walking distance – 200 meters – to five pharmacies. You can talk about a proper availability. On the other hand, pharmacies in the suburbs of Stockholm do not teem with them, but rather establish themselves in the inner city. It's the usual concept: The market rules. You don't find a lot of pharmacies in the Järva field, but people are sick there too. It is interesting to look at the consequences of liberalisation and the huge profits these companies have made. You fertilized the whole question by this to the benefit of small pharmacies – you saw family-owned little putt-utotepotek everywhere. Now it is Apotek Hjärtat that has thick up and is part of the Ica group. You can get bonuses for buying goods – not prescription goods but well others. The big winners of this became the big companies, who went in and took over the market. Of course we cannot take this back; it costs billions.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-77	Madam President, I would like We have never turned out especially for the individual players. On the other hand, for those who need the drugs — for those who on Sundays, in the evenings, and sometimes even at night — we do not get the medicines they needed. We turn for all those in line every time they were going to pick up their medicines, because the pharmacy density in the metropolitan areas was so low. Sure: In a big city, the number of meters is closer, but when there are too few pharmacies, the waiting time is too long. Many have probably forgotten how long you had to wait, but I know what it was like when my children were young and we needed to collect medicines. I know how you had to count on at least half an hour in line each time, because there was almost always a queue when you were going to buy something at the pharmacy. We care for those who need the drugs. We think it is good that other players are coming in. We did not like the company that Sweden was in when Sweden, Cuba and North Korea were the only countries in the world that had a pharmacy monopoly. Medications are not just any product, but people who need medicines should be able to expect that they are available. I will come back to the question to which I did not get an answer just now: do you not see that this will increase the risk that pharmacies will have to close longer when you go in and regulate more detail? There is a lack of this competence and this competence must be used properly. Just as we trust the doctors in a health centre, we trust that the person who is responsible – it can also be a nurse – can distribute the work so that the right person does the right thing. The right skills must be used, so that I as a patient can trust that the person who gives me advice has that competence. However, if other tasks are to be carried out, the manager must be able to be responsible for them.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-83	Madam President, I would like We have had a number of pharmaceutical debates in this House since I came in. Every time, you, Emma Henriksson, have highlighted countries that I don't care about at all. I don't care about North Korea or Cuba. Don't throw it at me, please! You in the former right-wing alliance could have gone another way. You could have ruled Apoteket AB to be open at night and weekends, couldn't you? But you didn't choose that, and do you know why you didn't, Emma? Because, as usual, you promote the market and always support the giants. Surely we will have this debate today on welfare gains. The former Minister of Social Affairs said: Look how nice it will be – we will have lots of small pharmacies all over Sweden! It will flourish! I have met many of the owners of the small pharmacies that existed. Very many of them have gone bankrupt, for they did not withstand the pressure of the giants. This is the result: when you open the door to the market, family-owned small businesses do not come first. They are cornered by those who have been waiting for this. You chose to liberalise the whole pharmacy market with one mission: the market first! It's great that I have all these pharmacies within walking distance, but ask them in Värmland how fun it is to go these 50 minutes by car. There we can talk about inaccessibility, and you also get money to be open. That's what happens when you always sit on the knees of business.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-89	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2. We can see that accessibility has increased since re-regulation, and that is a good thing. It is particularly good that ombudsman activities are now expanding, because there are areas in Sweden where it is not possible economically to establish pharmacies but perhaps the most difficult to recruit the staff that would be needed. Then this with the representatives is a very good solution. The report is about clarifying the basic tasks of pharmacies. I think that's excellent. This is fully in line with what the World Health Organisation has put forward about the role of pharmacies in health care. There are well-trained qualified staff who will collaborate with other health care personnel – at the health centres, within hospital operations and so on. It is not just about handing out medicines over the counter, it is also about information and working with self-care. This can be said to be the front line of health care where people go to seek help for things they feel they can manage on their own, that they do not need to go to the health centre or call an online doctor. If they go to the pharmacy they can expect to get professional advice on which medication to choose, but it can also be advice on other things like dressing etcetera. This requires the competence of this staff group and the ability to cooperate with the rest of the healthcare community. I am thinking of the health centres. The lack of pharmacists has been raised here. It must not lead to a reduction in the quality of pharmacies, but we must think about how we can solve the problem. Yes, it is, of course, opening the door to those pharmacists who want and can work after 67, as is the case in all the shortage professions. But it is also important to make it easier for all those pharmacists who have fled here to Sweden and who cannot immediately be put into the business. Prioritise language training for them! Prioritise that they learn about the legislation we have, which is different from that which exists in many other countries! It is important to get them into the pharmacy business as quickly as possible and to have the insight that much of the knowledge of the Swedish language, which is a difficult language, is gained in the workplace. So we must also look at this possibility of compensating for the lack of pharmacists. Then, of course, we will see into the crystal ball as to how many training places we need. Are there also pharmacists who have switched to other activities and who might be induced to return to pharmacy? It was also mentioned here how the cost of medicines has skyrocketed. I see that debate as natural when we discuss the national list of medicines.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-97	Madam President, I would like Today, a large part of crime is online. It is about drug sales, prostitution, human trafficking and all other activities of criminal persons and organisations. Sometimes the term net drugs is used. It leads the idea wrong, as all drugs sold on the street are also sold online. The report we are debating today is about how society should work better in order to be able, as early as possible, to class new substances sold as drugs in a legal way because chemicals have not yet been classified as drugs. Last year, 124 people died in Sweden, mainly young people, after using these drugs. There's more than those who died of heroin. The drugs are sold under names such as Spice, Black Mamba, K2 and Lava Red, to name a few. The problem we have, and have had for a long time, is that as soon as a drug class is classed, drug manufacturers change some molecules, making the drug again legal to sell. Currently, around 70 substances are under investigation for drug classification at the Public Health Agency. The time from the discovery of a new or altered substance to its classification as a drug is of great importance, and in recent years there have been great improvements that have shortened that time. Madam President, I would like Today's decision in Parliament improves society's ability to access these drugs. The police are given the opportunity to make anonymous purchases, which will enable society to begin work on the classification of different substances much earlier than today. It also imposes penalties on those who, out of gross negligence, deal with dangerous goods without authorisation. The Public Health Agency, which is the authority that works to monitor and investigate new substances, will also receive a long-term strengthened funding to work with these issues. Madam President, I would like The government has also reviewed the issue of generic classification of substances. This is an extremely complex issue, as a system of generic classification of substances can be difficult to reconcile with the legal certainty requirements that should be imposed. Svea Court of Appeal and the Court of Appeal of Western Sweden oppose the introduction of such a system for reasons of legal certainty. In Norway and Denmark generic classification of substances is applied. The government wants to continue to analyse the question of what measures can be taken to address the problem of new and modified substances more effectively. A unanimous social committee believes that the government should carry out an in-depth analysis of the experience of these countries, and in particular study the consequences of certain substances classified as narcotics not subsequently proving to be narcotics. Madam President, I would like In the light of the arguments put forward by the House, I support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-108	Madam President, I would like At all times, parents have been worried about what their children should seek for excitement and what limits they should challenge. It has always been admonished and warned. It has been about smoking, it has been about alcohol and it has been about drugs of various kinds. Today, a parent's biggest nightmare is that the daughter will be drugged by something she drinks and does not have a look-up or that the young people will be offered drugs that are said to be legal and therefore are not said to be so dangerous and that they will not be able to resist this offer. Today, the network is a single big kiosk with different variants where devilish vendors change the list of contents of drugs faster than p olis and authorities have time to act, to avoid the illegal substances. Inventiveness is infinite. For a parent, it is even more impossible to make it through the turns. The result is drugs of which a few small grains may mean death. Madam President, I would like That is why we must do everything we can to stop young people dying. We must do what Norway, Denmark, Ireland and the United Kingdom, for example, have done, namely decide on generic classification or family classification. That it's hard isn't a reason. 101 deaths last year are linked to variants of fentanyl. So it's as deadly as heroin. Madam President, I would like Family classification or generic classification of so-called psychoactive substances is complicated and complex, as my colleague Hans Hoff has just described so well. But just because something is difficult, we must not fail to find constructive solutions. We stand by the vision and goal of a drug-free Sweden. We support the Government's proposal in this proposal, but these proposals are not sufficient. Every week all year round, one or more people in Sweden die from new online drugs that are not yet classified as narcotics. That is, of course, unacceptable. Policy is to a large extent about prioritising and choosing which areas to put more emphasis on. When it comes to making it more difficult for new drugs to reach our children and young people in this way, the Alliance wants to go further than this. We want to test all possible ways of establishing more effective procedures and procedures for banning substances that are equivalent to drugs, not least for the sake of our children and young people. Madam President, I would like Online drugs today are often different forms of fentanyl substances that are completely lethal. For example, furanylfentanyl is an opioid painkiller about 100 times stronger than morphine and 40 times stronger than pure heroin. One dose includes less than one grain of salt, and one dose of three of these is enough to kill you. This means that there is an extremely small but absolutely vital difference between a usable dose and a lethal dose. Madam President, I would like Our goal of a drug-free society stands firm. It is about fundamental values and what signals we want to send to our children and young people. At the same time, in everyday life, it is purely technical and actually life or death. We are always a strong guarantor of a reliable rule of law. At the same time, we are choosing to see opportunities for new ways forward in order to achieve a more effective classification of substances equivalent to drugs. Madam President, I would like This should not be a partisan issue. It is true that the investigation suggested not to advocate the introduction of family classification. It is also true that many referrals are generally cautious and stop at the conclusion that Sweden should maintain the current system. There are, however, consultative bodies which have taken the opposite view. The Swedish Narcotics Police Association, for example, believes that the rapidly increasing trade in analogues similar to another substance with known chemical structure and effect justifies the generic classification of drugs and health dangerous goods. The same applies to the Swedish Chemistry Association. Lund University argues that they lack clear explanations from the government that generic classification could be carried out in other countries but cannot be implemented in Sweden. Saving human lives must be priority number one, the most important thing. The government states that any system of generic classification should not be introduced with the current knowledge base. However, the Government points out that it will initiate a new broad analysis of the question of measures. This should mean that the government also refers to family classification or generic classification. However, it is extremely unclear when this analysis is to be started and completed and how it is to be carried out. In the meantime, many more people, especially young people, are at risk of needless death. Madam President, I would like It is no coincidence that drug policemen want to introduce family classification. They see what these substances do to young people. Net drugs flow into Sweden, and many of these substances are now sold legally, even though they are lethal and almost exactly resemble, for example, fentanyls, which are already classed as narcotics. The legal society is several steps behind those who exploit the gaps in existing legislation. We therefore propose that the Riksdag announce to the Government to review and compile in-depth analyses of how the generic classification of psychoactive substances works in Norway, Denmark, Ireland and the United Kingdom. This international analysis should also include studying the consequences of certain substances classified as drugs ultimately proving to be not. Madam President, I would like The advantage of generic classification is that a substance is illegal already the first time it reaches Sweden – provided that it is covered by a generic definition and that it otherwise meets the criteria for constituting a drug or other health hazard. Finally, let me quote Markus Heilig, professor of psychiatry at Linköping University.When young people die for reasons that we could easily prevent, it is very difficult to sleep well at night. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal and the announcement, because I want us all to do everything we can to save young people's lives and sleep well at night.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-129	Madam President, I would like On Thursday, it is time to take a decision on the Social Affairs Committee's 28 report on the identification of curators in health care. We will do that in unity, and it feels good. The curator is the psychosocial expert in healthcare and has his own patient responsibility and performs an independent work. The work includes, among other things, investigations and assessments and, in some cases, treatment in the form of crisis support or talks. Many times the curator's assessments are important for the continued diagnosis, care and treatment. The curator's analysis is also important and is often used in certification. Furthermore, the curator can act as a link between different caregivers. I believe that the role of the curator has evolved over the years. There is a big difference between today and when I started working in health care 25 years ago. Today, the curator is in a completely different way than before an important cog in a multi-professional team. The curator acts as a bridge between the biomedical and social perspectives. Mental ill health in society is growing. Some measurements show that as much as one third of those seeking primary care suffer from various forms of mental illness. It would then be reasonable for more people to be given the opportunity to meet a counselor or psychologist as their first contact at their health centre. One should also be able to feel confident that this person has both formal and real skills. Currently, private healthcare curators are not subject to the obligation to keep records, which could pose risks to patient safety. With legitimacy, these too will be subject to this obligation, and then quality will be equivalent regardless of the type of activity. The purpose of legitimising the curators is, of course, to strengthen patient safety. A licence may be revoked in the event of gross incompetence or obvious inadequacy of the profession. This also means that curators will be included in the National Board of Health and Welfare's register of certified personnel, which facilitates regulatory supervision. As a general rule, the basis for the licence must be a health care curator's degree. Professional curators must be able to obtain a licence for a transitional period if they have completed a socio-economic degree or other equivalent education and have worked for at least five years, or two years and have a relevant further education. The representatives of the profession, including the trade unions, have been calling for legitimacy for a long time, and now it is finally time. The legislative amendments are proposed to enter into force on 1 July 2019. This is good for the profession, good for the carers and – most importantly – good for the patients. With this, Madam President, I support the committee's proposal.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-139	Madam President, I would like It is a united parliament that stands behind the identification of healthcare curators. This is a 10-year journey. In 2008 we exercise in the Liberals – Maria Lundqvist-Brömster-Brömster and I – on ID for curators, but as usual the exercise was rejected. Then the motion was repeated, and eventually the matter was investigated. It did not happen much, but later the National Board of Health and Welfare came with a clear basis for investigation – that it is important that identification is also required for this profession because it is part of the team around patients, not least those who have psychosocial problems. Responsibility must be demanded by everyone in the teams, and that is where the identification is important. With a licence comes training for the issues you take responsibility for, and you can also be dislegated if you are found unfit. It is therefore a question of quality and safety for patients. Now, after ten years, we're on target, almost. It takes a year before this comes into force, because education must be arranged for those who want to train as curators in health care. It must also be possible for those who already work there to be tested on the basis of skills and receive the necessary training. Kristina Nilsson has already explained this, so I am not referring to it. So it takes just over a year for this to become a reality. This will be an important part of health care and already is. Unlike some other qualified occupational groups in relation to patients, the curators have a good knowledge of how the Social Insurance Agency, the Employment Service and the municipalities work in the area that aims to ensure that people return to work quickly and get the safe place they want in society. On 7 June, the President beats the club in the table, and I think that is a day to celebrate.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-145	Sweden has been the world leader in the marketization of welfare since the 1990s. It has been liberalised and largely privatised at a rapid pace. Today, in our country, we have the most liberal rules in the world in terms of, for example, opportunities to conduct educational activities for profit. When welfare began to be enriched with other participants than just public performers in the 1990s, the idea was to pave the way for more ideas-based actors – non-profit organisations, cooperatives and foundations. No responsible politician could foresee a development in which welfare would become a commodity with quick clips. The number of non-profit actors is largely the same now as it was when the reform was implemented. It is above all private profit-making companies that have grown sharply at the expense of others. Small companies, parent and employee cooperatives and other smaller players are increasingly bought up and taken over by group companies that may be larger than large municipalities. In addition, they are excluded from procurement as they cannot compete on a level playing field. This leads to uniformity where companies with a certain healthcare or school concept are taking over increasing shares of welfare. The former bourgeois government, too, pointed out in its directives to the so-called Owner Review investigation that a trend towards a few major companies that dominate the market is problematic if it means that diversity and thus freedom of choice are limited. Fredrik Reinfeldt's government realised that continued development towards increasingly profit-oriented players risks leading to uniformity, with reduced diversity and freedom of choice for users. Madam President, I would like The organisation of our common welfare must be based on the best interests of students and caretakers, but also on the serious private actors, such as free schools that enrich the school world with exciting new educational orientations. The school should be about students, the right to a good education and good knowledge. Care and care should be about security and care. It is therefore gratifying that the Riksdag can now decide on clear requirements for permits to operate in the areas of welfare and that specific rules for procurement are introduced. The proposals create better conditions to ensure that private operators have sufficient opportunities to operate with good quality, while at the same time strengthening public confidence in welfare. The proposals also offer better opportunities to exploit the specific added value that the concept-based sector can bring. Contracting authorities are now given the option to reserve, that is to reserve, the participation in a procurement for an organisation that meets certain requirements such as the reinvesting of any profits in order to achieve the purpose of the organisation or the organisation's management and ownership structure based on the ownership or participation of its staff. Madam President, I would like By introducing more identical requirements for insight, suitability and economic conditions, we can counter the opportunities of fortune-seekers and rogue operators to conduct tax-funded activities. We can reduce the incidence of crime in the welfare sector. Let me take a few examples. TV4's Cold Facts revealed that Astar in Stockholm, run by the Thoren Group, lied about the number of teachers in order to win the procurement and increase profits. They had up to 50 to 60 students per class. Thoren Group acknowledged its mistake, and after the review it turned out that similar conditions prevailed at Astars's school in Malmö. There too, the Thoren Group has lied about staffing. Hermods in Malmö, owned by Academedia, has also cheated. They promised that 65% of SFI teachers would be qualified, but in fact 65 – 80% of teachers were unauthorized. The City of Malmö has reported both Astar and Thorengruppen as well as Hermods and Academedia. These are some of the many examples that show how unreasonable it is that in our country today we have clearer rules for running a hot dog kiosk than for private welfare performers. Madam President, I would like There is a strong popular base in terms of our common resources remaining in welfare and being used for common affairs and making demands on private operators and combating criminal actors. To conclude, therefore, I would like to note that these very proposals appear to be gaining the majority in the Swedish Parliament. But it seems to be with certain bourgeois reservations. The Swedish democrats and bourgeois parties want to reject parts of the bill, albeit with somewhat different motives. They once again show the art of having two slightly conflicting views at the same time. The most peculiar of all is that the bourgeois parties also want to test the ownership and management of municipal activities. Municipalities and private actors have completely different roles and responsibilities. Municipalities have a statutory responsibility to provide social services and education for citizens and are assumed to have knowledge and competence within what is the basic task of municipalities. It is the citizens who, in general elections, demand responsibility from the elected representatives. From an audit point of view, elected representatives are fully responsible for all activities. There is no equivalent possibility for citizens to hold the Executive Director or the Board of Directors liable in limited liability companies if the activities are not of acceptable quality. In accordance with the Swedish Companies Act, limited liability companies have the sole purpose of making profits for the owner. Therefore, the purposes of the activity differ depending on who is the principal. The municipal law is based on the principle that it is the elected representatives who are responsible for making all decisions. There are such differences of principle between municipal and individual activities that there is no reason to introduce anything corresponding to the ownership and management review of municipal activities. In cases where individual principals cease their activities, municipalities are deemed to be able to take over responsibility for providing services to users, children and pupils at short notice. Madam President, I would like Developments are not irreversible. What has once been won must be defended. The development that has gone wrong must be reversed. More than 100 years of democracy and welfare have taught us that it is not always a simple task and that it is a task that requires both time and patience. But with small steps in a positive and progressive direction, society can change and evolve. The Riksdag is now taking a few further steps in a way where the resources of welfare can be used effectively and efficiently. This is how we continue to build society, and so we can create security, equality and freedom for most people by far.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-164	Madam President, I would like All parties really protect the Swedish welfare model, which is based on joint funding and now also the opportunity to choose the performers. But we do it in different ways. The Alliance parties place greater emphasis on freedom of choice, which presupposes a diversity of actors, while the starting point for the Left parties, led by the Social Democrats, is mistrust of private actors and the rule of municipal activity. The latter is unfortunately reflected in the handling of the issue of permit requirements and ownership testing in welfare. We can therefore be honest enough in the debate to say that we all want the tax money to go to what they are intended for – a good school for children and a reliable care for those who need it – and that no one wants tax money to be lost to tax havens or rogue actors to knock out good activities. On the other hand, we Moderates and our alliance friends want several actors to contribute and not just the public. Having said that, it is also important to point out that it was the Alliance that set up an investigation into ownership testing in 2012. The aim was to secure society's demands for those who own and run companies within school, health and social care to have a long-term and serious commitment and run a good and high quality business. Unfortunately, after the 2014 elections, the current government changed direction. However, since 2015, a majority in the Riksdag has repeatedly called for the Welfare Investigation to focus instead on how we can strengthen the quality of welfare and not on whether companies make profits and that the quality of welfare can only be ensured by making demands also on public actors and not just on the private ones. It is the public sector that performs the vast majority of the welfare. Unfortunately, the government has chosen to ignore this. Of course, there are many fine municipal activities, as well as many nice private activities. But there are also abuses. But they are available to both private and public actors. Already today, parts of the activities carried out under the Social Services Act are subject to authorisation and, in the case of the Act on Support and Service to Certain Persons with Disabilities, authorisation requirements were introduced in 2013. It is now proposed to extend the permit requirement in social services and to introduce ownership and management testing for a broader part of welfare including school. The proposal complements the current test with more identical requirements on understanding, suitability and economic conditions. We believe that this is the right way forward, but that the proposal does not take a holistic approach, but only solves some of the problems that we want to tackle. That, in turn, will be a problem. The government's desire to impose different demands on independent and public actors in the welfare sector impairs equivalence. Today, welfare is largely carried out by companies, organisations, foundations and cooperatives. We want to place high demands on them, but we also want to make demands on the municipalities that carry out the same activities to an even greater extent. The reasons given by the government for exempting local government activities do not seem to us to be valid. Of course, municipalities have statutory responsibility, and there are differences between public and private activities. However, unlike the government, we do not think it is enough that every four years in general elections, citizens can demand responsibility from elected representatives. In these day-to-day welfare activities, it is too blunt a tool. However, we will not vote against the Government's proposal for ownership review, but we, together with a majority in the Riksdag, demand that the Government return with a general permit requirement that obviously applies to both public and private operations. We also protect the smaller players, such as cooperatives, and therefore ask the government to ensure that the licensing requirements, as well as the ownership and management testing, do not create undue obstacles for them to establish and operate in the welfare field. The Law Council, as well as many consultation bodies, has highlighted the paradox of demanding that the licence holder be financially able to operate in the welfare sector, while at the same time presenting a proposal aimed at limiting the profits of the same company, which is being debated thereafter. The above two points have a clear majority in parliament. In addition, we Moderates want to move forward and propose, together with the Liberals and Christian Democrats, firstly that both permit and supervisory responsibility for independent preschools and leisure homes should lie with the Swedish School Inspectorate instead of the municipalities. It increases the preconditions for a more effective and legally sound assessment of activities and ensures equivalence throughout the country, while at the same time ensuring that the burden of municipal work does not increase. Another part of the process that needs to be improved is the long processing times of the Health and Welfare Inspection, IVO. In January 2018, the average processing time was six months to get permission to start an operation according to the rules that have applied to date under the Social Services Act and LSS. Secondly, therefore, we call on the government to assume its responsibilities and take steps to ensure reasonable processing times at IVO. This is all the more important with the decision on permit trials, which will involve both more applications and more complex trials. We Moderates want a welfare system where serious actors, big and small, can continue to start and run schools and retirement homes, while rogue actors can be kept away and reasonable demands are made for knowledge of the activities of the board and management. All members of the Board of Directors of a school shall not have to be fully acquainted with the rules governing the activities. However, it is a reasonable requirement that the board and management as a collective have knowledge of school law and other rules that apply to access public funding. Now the order in Sweden is such that it is the government that drafts and presents legislative proposals for decisions in the Riksdag. It is unfortunate that we currently have a government that is not only weak but also not sensitive to the parliament or, for that matter, those who run and use welfare. Now that the proposal is in place, we have two options. We can either reject it – which can be reasonable on the basis that it only solves parts of the problems we have today – or we see it as a step along the way and give clear signals as to how the problems can be solved in their entirety. Together with the Liberals and the Christian Democrats, we chose the latter but also demand the following: For the first two points, there is already a majority in Parliament. It's 97 days until the election. At best, a new alliance government can take a holistic approach more or less immediately, so that the aim really is achieved: that rogue actors in welfare are stopped and that tax funds go to what they should: school, health care and care with good quality. Because it is amazing that in Sweden it is possible for everyone to choose between municipal and private alternatives in welfare, not just those who can afford it. Instead of focusing on limiting choice and making it more difficult for those who invest in welfare, we should put the gunpowder into creating better conditions for all actors to improve both the quality and productivity of school, healthcare and care.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-181	Madam President, I would like The Swedish democrats are basically in favour of both increased and clearer demands for permits within welfare activities. The quality of well-being is central to citizens. Ultimately, it is financed by tax, which is why we as politicians should place high demands on the actors in the welfare sector. I'm afraid this bill goes wrong. I really have to say, unfortunately, because this is important. It should reasonably be possible to bring together not just a majority, but perhaps even a completely united parliament on this issue. The flagrant unwillingness of the government to negotiate with the opposition together with the fact that it is making a substandard proposal means that it does not get through it, at least not in its entirety. That will be shown by Thursday's vote. But I will of course inform the government of what it should do if it wants me and my parliamentary group behind such a proposal in order to get a majority on that subject. Firstly, there must, of course, be equal treatment between different forms of operation. For me, it is not crucial whether a school is run by the municipality, a limited company, a foundation, a cooperative or any other association. For me, it is crucial that we make the same high and clear demands on all schools. The same terms and conditions shall apply to all. The majority of the country's schools and retirement homes will not be affected by this proposal at all. Secondly, for me, it is also crucial that the same rules, the same conditions, apply equally throughout the kingdom. Of course, it should not be the individual municipality that should carry out such a test. It is quite clear what the result would be. Some municipalities will make the most strict interpretation possible because of an ideological ill will towards freedom of choice, while other municipalities will, on the contrary, do almost lax trials. It should be the same regulatory framework and the same conditions. Let the examination be carried out at the state level by the responsible authority. This is increasing the diversity of the country. Access to a good school, a good health centre, a good retirement home, should not depend on which municipality you happen to live in. Madam President, I would like Nor, of course, can we accept those parts of the bill where it is proposed that the responsible authority should be able to decide on completely new regulations. If the regulatory framework is to be changed one way or the other, it should of course be preceded by a debate in this House with subsequent decisions in this House. It's about things that really affect people. There are really no elements in the proposal that would really improve anything for all these people. If anything, it creates problems for the small non-public operators in particular. Madam President, I would like Our line is really quite simple because it is not driven by an ideological aversion to freedom of choice: those who do a good job should be allowed to remain. Those who do a bad job are going away. How simple it would have been if we could agree behind such a line! How do we accomplish this? We must have authorisation requirements for the operation, absolutely, but not in the way the government proposes. We're supposed to have permission requirements for everyone and not just for a few. We will test the suitability of owners, board and management. We're going to test the financial plan and the business plan. But we should also have supervision to follow up on living up to what you are obligated to. There should be more checks and, unlike today, more unannounced checks. Madam President, I would like I'm gonna speak some Latin here. Then one seems very wise and learned, it is said. Fides est bona, custom custodia est melior. Trust is good, control is better. That's it. There should be clear means of sanctioning anyone who, by chance, does not meet the demands of us as politicians. It should, of course, be able to render that the authorisation to carry out the activity is revoked at all. Madam President, I would like The government has put forward a proposal that leads to greater diversity, greater ambiguity and increased uncertainty. That is why we will do what we can to stop it, preferably in its entirety, but we do not get support for this by the rest of the House so at least in part. I therefore support the Swedish Democrats' reservation No 2.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-190	Madam President, I would like Welfare is one of Sweden's most important assets. It delivers what provides the conditions for a socially sustainable present and future. It is therefore very important that it works and delivers services of the highest quality. It has to be right the first time. A childhood and a child's schooling won't come again, and a misbehaved elderly person won't get another chance at a worthy old age. The problems with today's system are clear, and something has to be done has been clear for quite some time. That's why the government set up an investigation. It came to be called the Welfare Investigation and would come up with suggestions for improvements and increased quality focus for the welfare area. The investigation was presented, and I am pleased that we now have a proposal to make a decision on. There is much to do in the area of welfare. We have seen a shortage of resources for a long time. This government has been providing funds during its term of office. It has been general funding in the form of the so-called welfare billions as well as targeted contributions to health care as well as school and care. It's probably so important for development and confidence in welfare. We are now debating something that could have been assumed to be obvious a long time ago, namely increased demands for even getting involved in the pursuit of private activities in the welfare sector. It should be clear that those who want to run welfare activities are suitable for this in terms of experience, knowledge and economic opportunities. This ensures better quality in many cases and reduces the risk of people entering the industry because it is generally lucrative, as is the case with current legislation. We want people to go to the welfare area because they are passionate about improving and developing such an important area for Sweden, not because they want to use the system. Permits to carry out certain activities already exist in many sectors of society, and now it is finally being introduced here too. The proposals we now have on the table are designed to prevent rogue people and businesses from making unreasonable profits at the expense of taxpayers, students and users. Reducing the ability of rogue actors to conduct tax-funded welfare activities is also important for public confidence in welfare as a whole. For this reason, it is important that authorisation is required of both small and large operators. When it comes to tax-funded activities aimed at those who are in great need and for whom we want to do the very best, we believe that the proposals are urgent and therefore also that the consequences of the requirements are proportionate to the interest of introducing them. We also say that the proposals will help to improve the conditions of competition in the welfare sector by preventing rogue operators or operators with poor conditions from establishing themselves. This will make market conditions more equal, creating conditions for healthy competition. There is also a proposal that authorisation testing should also be carried out for municipal activities. It may spontaneously sound like a reasonable idea that everyone should be subject to the same rules, including municipalities. However, there is an important difference between public and private actors. The power of the public is based on the people, ultimately through general elections. If there are shortcomings in public activity, it is the people who can first and foremost demand responsibility by voting out elected representatives and replacing them with others. In addition, municipalities have a statutory responsibility for social services and education for citizens and are assumed to have knowledge and competence within what is actually the basic task of municipalities. There are clear opportunities for residents to influence the public on the basis of the democratic rules and principles that exist in Sweden, but there is no equivalent in terms of residents' ability to influence a private operator or any equivalent responsibility for a private operator to provide a certain activity for the residents in all situations. It is therefore reasonable that the public should not be subject to the same authorisation test. Of course, the municipalities should still do a good job and hire the people they think can do the job. At least as important in what we have on the table today is the place of ideas-driven actors in welfare. We in the Green Party have been very clear that we want to strengthen the conditions for idea-based operations, and now we deliver it on several levels. In this particular report, it is the exceptions in the field of procurement that facilitate the possibilities for ideas-based activities. This is an important step towards a genuine diversity of actors in welfare. The fact that in this respect we create better conditions for municipalities to make use of ideas-based activities should be seen in a context where we also develop procurement in other ways throughout the public sector. We have set up the Procurement Authority, which is still a relatively new authority but which has a very important task by supporting municipalities and authorities in various ways to implement legally secure, efficient and socially and environmentally sustainable procurement for the benefit of citizens and business development. The proposal is assessed as simplifying for both contracting authorities and suppliers and improving the possibilities for using the specific added value that suppliers in the concept-based sector can offer in the context of procurement. This improvement is an important step, but we will follow up on its impact and in what other ways we can do more to promote idea-based actors in the future. I support the MP, S and V reservations.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-201	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Centre Party's reservation 3, as if it were to have a majority in this House, would mean that this proposal would be relegated to the wastebasket. I see the two issues we are discussing here – on the one hand the question of ownership and management review, and on the other hand the next issue of what is popularly referred to as the Reepalus investigation – as two sides of the same coin. Both processes, both proposals, are about making it more difficult for not least small and start-up actors in welfare and about restricting Swedes' freedom of choice. Both of them would also, if they were to go through, result in major deteriorations in the quality and freedom of choice in the welfare of Swedes. Everything suggests that the Reepalus investigation will fall. That's good. Everything suggests that parts of this bill will go through. It's bad. As so often when the government says it wants to solve a problem, it creates a variety of other problems through too little quality in its legislation. The government is talking about combating crime, and who could be against it? Of course, we will try to agree on tough quality requirements for welfare actors regardless of who carries them out. However, the proposal that is actually being put forward is described by the trade association of our free preschools, FSO, as a death blow for the many staff and parent cooperatives who all claim to want more of it. Nevertheless, it seems that proposals restricting their ability to operate will win the confidence and majority of this House. Just over a year ago, this House adopted the corresponding provision concerning, for example, retirement homes and HVB homes. Unfortunately, we are seeing the consequences of this now. Precisely the same business that is okay to perform in public municipal direction is not for a municipality that so wishes to procure to a private operator, because then the permit requirements kick in and then it is suddenly not okay though it may be about exactly the same activity in the exact same geographical location. It does not rhyme with equivalence and freedom of choice. We also see long waiting times and problems with the purely bureaucratic work on these provisions. It is clear that the risk is that we are now hurting worse when we adopt legislation this badly designed and ill-considered. This leads to a bureaucratic breakdown at a time when we are going to spend resources on improving Swedish welfare. We repeat mistakes even though we feel the consequences. It's bad. One argument that has come up in the debate is that it would be more difficult to influence private actors than it is to influence their municipal politicians every four years. I would argue that if such arguments are put forward, we have not really understood what this is all about. The whole of our work to develop freedom of choice is about not having to wait four years to improve the welfare you actually get, but it should be possible to change actors here and now if the user does not behave. This is now, despite the fact that the Left does not want to know it, one of the pillars of Swedish welfare. The Swedes expect to be able to choose. They expect freedom of choice and want small and large and public, private and non-profit players to choose from, and that is what we are set to do in this House. That is what political processes must lead to. What we need here, both in this matter and in what we are going to discuss next, is for us to take a new and concerted approach that leads to quality and freedom of choice throughout the country and regardless of the performers. We are currently in a dead end. When we vote against the Reepalu bill and the Reepalu investigation and when we now partially vote against and put an end to parts of this bill – although it would have been desirable for us to vote against it all – we will hopefully be able, after this week, to move forward in a situation where we are trying to get together on the quality requirements and the strengthening of freedom of choice that this country needs.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-208	Madam President, I would like We now have a long and two-pronged debate on welfare gains. I shall now raise the issues relating to permit requirements for running welfare activities. In the next debate, my colleagues Ulla Andersson, Ali Esbati, Karin Rågsjö and Daniel Riazat will highlight why we must put an end to the pursuit of profit in welfare. The proposal that we are dealing with now is basically about getting order and who runs private welfare business. We have seen how criminals have run home service, how fortune seekers have run assistance activities and how venture capitalists without long-term thinking are trying to squeeze out every penny of our schools. The bill proposes – and it will go through in the Riksdag – that a permit requirement and an aptitude test be introduced for those who conduct private activities in the welfare sector. The requirements apply to welfare, regardless of whether you conduct school activities, care for the elderly, home care or assistance activities within LSS. The introduction of more transparency, suitability and economic conditions can counterbalance the potential of rogue operators to conduct tax-funded activities. Permission can be revoked if you do not behave properly. Then you have nothing to do with welfare. These are important changes. These changes go through despite the bourgeois objections. However, there will also be two announcements today – an announcement that the licensing obligation will apply to all public operators and an announcement about the smaller operators. Under the flag that everyone should be treated equally, the bourgeoisie and the Swedish Democrats are trying to introduce a test for public actors as well. This may sound laudable at first sight, but it is a fundamental departure from the order that we have today. It is another attempt to introduce market thinking and new public management on systems where it does not work. It creates markets that do not exist in order to facilitate further privatisation. Since the 19th century, municipalities have been responsible for schooling and care for the elderly in accordance with our legislation. That mission was formulated long before we introduced universal and equal suffrage in this country. Now, from the right, we want to introduce a test of whether all municipalities should have this right. The Local Government Act is based on the principle that elected representatives are responsible for making decisions. Although municipalities and county councils delegate the right to decide on certain matters to officials, elected politicians are fully responsible for all activities. It is the citizens who, in general elections, demand responsibility from the elected representatives. Thus, if public activity is lacking, it is the people who are primarily able to demand responsibility by voting out elected representatives and replacing them with others. Similarly, citizens can never hold a CEO or the Board of Directors of public limited liability if the business is not of an acceptable quality. Today's announcement asks a lot of questions that I do not think we will get any answers to. What will these overbureaucratic trials cost? Should they be paid for by the municipalities instead of going to welfare? What happens if a municipality is not approved? Who should be tested, are the politicians in charge or their officials? Should a state authority be able to decide which politicians, who govern a municipality, are to be replaced? These questions will be answered by the bourgeois politicians, the Swedish democrats and the profit lobbyists, but I do not think we will hear an answer. Today, a Swedish legal tradition is being broken and municipal self-government is being restricted. Madam President, I would like The whole of the legislation now before us is clear. It will be easier for smaller actors who aim to carry out good activities in their welfare. We are not looking to close down any village schools, parental cooperatives or the Swedish Church hospice. We want to make it easier and better for them. Today, the great dragons, the listed groups of multinational venture capitalists, are benefiting with one single objective: to make money, not to achieve good welfare. That is why the bourgeois announcement feels so artificial and cramped. You just don't trust our intentions. The announcement that is now being made runs the risk that rogue smaller players who only want to make money out of welfare will remain. Therefore, a licensing obligation for smaller operators is also a matter from both a user and a citizen perspective. Even the small cooperative needs the right skills to carry out welfare activities. The demands we are making will not prevent smaller players from establishing themselves. For us, the proposals we are putting forward together with the government are important in order to protect the idea-driven actors in welfare. Today they are disadvantaged by today's system when the prize hunt is rewarded over those with visions and ideas. The idead reinvests in the business, and they have content as their main purpose. When there are more ideas-driven actors, there will be a diversity, instead of giant groups of venture capitalists. We in the Left Party are prepared to move forward with more measures in the future to strengthen the position of ideas-driven actors if necessary. The proposals in this legislation are about combating rogue actors in welfare. The requirement of economic conditions reduces the risk of sudden closures. We have seen examples – as in my hometown – in the case of Karlstad Sports School where the school closed for staff and students on the same day as the spring semester was due to start. But having permission to conduct welfare activities and having the profit hunt as an incentive are two completely different things. Also, actors in welfare to make profits, which have the incentive of profit-hunting, will certainly be granted permission as long as it is possible to make as huge profits as it is today. That is why legislation is also needed to stop the pursuit of profit in welfare. Madam President, I would like I would like to endorse reservations 4 and 6.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-225	Madam President, I would like I requested a reply because I may need Håkan Svenneling's help in understanding the details of this proposal. Håkan Svenneling specifically said from the speaker's chair that this was not a problem for small players. Rather, it should prevent the ability of larger players to operate and, at worst, to make a profit. However, the effect of the proposal is that those who may have the most difficulty meeting the requirements now imposed on boards and so on are the voluntary working forces of the parent cooperative, parents and others, who are to take responsibility. They are the ones who send the distress calls: do not give in to this proposal! It is not the big players who have the biggest objections to this particular part, but the small ones. I have been in contact with parent cooperatives who say: With this proposal, it will in principle be to close down the business or transform into a limited company and perhaps be bought by a major player who can cope with these requirements. As I mentioned in my speech, the chairman of the smaller players' cooperation organisation has said that this is a death blow. What is it that all those who work in parental and staff cooperatives have misunderstood that Håkan Svenneling apparently understands?
i-74ae51410f0d616e-231	Madam President, I would like Emil Källström said in his speech that this legislation is two sides of the same coin, given that we have two different debates. In fact, I think he's right in that analysis. For me as a left-wing party, it is both a question of stopping the pursuit of profit as an incentive in welfare and of imposing demands on the players who are there. The problem with Emil Källström's policy is that he just wants to do one thing and preferably just a little bit on the margin. This will put you in a system of profit-hunting as an incentive, in which the big players will be rewarded, where the large groups will expand and take over. When you then try to make demands to get rid of the rogue and criminal actors, the fortune seekers – there are examples where the children have only been given crisp bread and water for breakfast – then Emil Källström wants to peel away different parts and keep only the goodies that he likes. That is the problem, that there are two important pieces of legislation that are linked. I think it is reasonable to make demands. I don't think Emil and I should be able to start a business tomorrow and say that we should now run a retirement home. I think we're really good at it. I think it is reasonable that there are requirements for insights, knowledge and economic conditions to run a business. As Niklas Karlsson was on the subject, today we have more laws to operate a hot dog kiosk than they do for welfare. It is basically very good that we have these laws. Not everyone should be able to run welfare activities. It is about what serious ideas you have and what you want to implement. Then it may be that the small parent cooperative needs to develop its skills in order to be in welfare. I think it is reasonable that if you run a preschool, a village school or a parent cooperative, you should have knowledge of how to do it in a good way. That's why we need to lay a floor – a permit test – in order to reach a reasonable level.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-237	Madam President, I would like It was hard inside, but towards the end of the line Håkan Svenneling was open with what this means. We are now making much tougher demands on the well-functioning parent and staff cooperatives that exist and that most people in this House would like to have more of, but this is also the group that is being punished the hardest. The Left Party and the other Socialist-influenced parties often talk about what they want to do, but when they then make proposals and they are analysed against reality, you can see that they often lead to something quite different. This discrepancy between snack and workshop in terms of impact on smaller players never becomes as clear as then. Madam President, I would like I think once again that Håkan Svenneling was clear, and that is good. He said that this will mean difficulties and new demands on our smaller staff cooperatives. Let me be equally clear. I and the Center Party believe that well-functioning activities – not infrequently parental cooperatives in rural areas – should be allowed to exist. We want to protect them. We want them to continue to develop their business. We do not want to force them to sell their business to a larger group that can meet the demands of the Left Party and other red-green parties now. Right here is the difference. Therefore, for the sake of this group, I will vote against when this comes up at the vote. The Left Party will vote in favour. My offer and that of the Center Party is that we should instead look at the business. We will set tough quality requirements for what to achieve. This is how you seriously respect and care for the children and the elderly who take part in these activities.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-241	Madam President, I would like This is an area in which bourgeois politicians have for a long time neglected legislation. They have thought: the market solves this. It'll take care of it. We do not need to regulate this. This has led us to a situation with both nice and small cozy parent cooperatives who run a good business and who try to get it to walk around as well as possible, d electricity's criminal actors who go in to fool welfare, squeeze out the money and cheat. As legislators, we now have to deal with both of these things at the same time in a completely different way than if we had introduced legislation 10, 15 or 20 years ago. What Emil Källström says means that he only wants to protect the parent cooperatives – only them. In this way, he closes his eyes and does not see the shadow sector that exists in many areas of welfare. For a long time there have been various revelations and events in which criminals have been able to act in a way that is not at all appropriate. Emil Källström says he does nothing about this, because he wants to protect the parent cooperatives. At this point, I feel that we as politicians need to do something else. We must take responsibility for ensuring that every person who attends school or receives care in the care of the elderly knows that politics has a responsibility, keeps track of and ensures that the activities are licensed. That is why I think it is reasonable for even a small player to have a licence. The condition can be proportionate to what you do. That is why we are not saying exactly what regulations and legislation should look like in detail. We leave this to the expert authorities, which I think is a good thing. With Emil Källström's line you let the market ravage freely. Criminal actors may continue to grab money from welfare in a way that I will never allow. That is why I am proud of the legislation on licensing that we are presenting today. Above all, it is about ending the pursuit of profit in welfare.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-246	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by calling for the approval of reservations 1 and 5. Then I would like to quote Günther Günther from the Entrepreneurs. He has described the debate in an excellent way when he said that it should be about quality floors instead of profit ceilings. It is precisely the floor that we, through this proposal here and now, are going to raise. We must ensure that the floor is high enough so that rogue market players cannot exist and make profits by maintaining low quality. We raise the floor to keep such actors away from welfare. This should, of course, also apply to public welfare activities, not just private ones. From the red-green side it is said that we obviously have a chance to hold our politicians to account every four years. In addition, there is a review in the media about municipal retirement homes and other things that do not behave and if there is mismanagement. There are plenty of such reports and reviews. This mechanism is great and works to some extent. But there is no reason not to add another mechanism and make exactly the same demands on public operators as on private ones. Of course, this review must be carried out primarily from the state. This will allow resources to be pooled and the audit carried out effectively so that it can be of high quality. Around Sweden there are 290 municipalities. Some of them are very small and find it difficult to implement all the requirements that come from Stockholm and that relate to different forms of review in all possible areas. This is therefore best done at state level, as we put it in our reservations and announcements. Oscar Sjöstedt spoke Latin – perhaps to appear more intelligent. I was going to quote Ronald Reagan. I don't know what that says about me. It is well up to the viewer to judge. He said, Trust, but verify. This is exactly what this area is about: we will trust the actors, but we will constantly verify and review what they are doing. This applies to both public and private actors.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-251	Madam President, I would like Sweden should be one of the world's best countries to live and grow up in. It calls for reforms for a strong economy that breaks exclusion and dependency on benefits and ensures that we have a secure and accessible welfare for all. If we are to achieve this, we should focus on what is important in welfare: knowledge and quality. In order for all parents to find the option that suits them and their children, there must be well-developed childcare facilities with different options. We want there to be a variety of different forms of childcare with different orientations and different principals. It concerns family day-care centres, preschools, open preschools and recreation centres. This requires municipalities to offer equal conditions for all approved childcare and pre-school activities. Both private and public actors must work with the same requirements and the same conditions. With freedom of choice and by offering freedom of choice, increased demands are placed on us to define quality. But it is necessary for the sake of freedom of choice, and it is important for the citizen to have freedom of choice. When the alliance government took over in 2006, there was a significant lack of government systems to monitor and ensure good quality of operations. We therefore established both the School Inspectorate and the Inspectorate for Health and Care. This was important from a quality perspective, but also in order for those who start such activities to know within what framework they work and operate. Small actors and parent cooperatives have a natural place as school leaders in Sweden. That more people take the step and try to create a business based on their ideas and their quality, we Christian Democrats see as a self-evident development of welfare. Many times it is about parents who go together to create something in a place where there may be no preschool. As a nation, we must be able to encourage commitment, quality development and responsibility. The demands we as politicians are making cannot only be out of the position of a major player, but we must also take into account a smaller player. The proposal to introduce an ownership and management test for welfare activities must not threaten the ability of small businesses to operate. Basically, the proposal is to ensure that the persons or organisations applying and operating in the welfare-funded services market meet certain requirements. The proposal makes the assessment that those who already run their business today will also be blameless to meet the new requirements. The Christian Democrats are fundamentally in favour of increased permit requirements to ensure the quality of welfare if it does not shut out independent actors. However, we have certain points of view and perspectives that we believe have been missed. As far as licensing and enforcement are concerned, we believe that it is difficult to create the specialist skills needed to achieve an effective and legally sound assessment, which means that the interpretation and application of the new regulatory framework risks being different between our 290 municipalities. Therefore, the government should return with proposals to transfer the licensing and supervision responsibility for independent preschools and leisure homes from the municipalities to the Swedish School Inspectorate. We also believe that it is reasonable to make the same demands on the public and therefore it is necessary to make this change. The government should today ensure that permit requirements and ownership and management testing do not create too great barriers to establishing and operating in the welfare field. This is particularly true of the potential of small operators, such as cooperatives. In order not to lose focus on the most important, that is, the quality, the government should urgently return to the Riksdag with this. It should be natural for a board of directors, for example, to place requirements on operational knowledge for a preschool or for those on such a board to be able to undergo a test of suitability through economic history. We believe that higher demands with broad brush strokes and a special observation of how this hits smaller players such as cooperatives should be possible to implement, while at the same time the focus should be on encouraging more people to take the step of setting up cooperatives. The way to improve quality and have the opportunity to ensure that public funds are used for what they intend through control and quality requirements. Similarly, it should be possible to check that public activities are of good quality, that knowledge is at the right level and that the money is used as it is intended. Our view is that independent and public activities enrich each other if we allow them to do so. Then it should also be natural for us to make the same demands on them. We will take the best out of both operations and further develop it. Competition creates new ideas and new opportunities, which in turn creates better quality, more efficient use of money and an opportunity to become one of the best nations on welfare, security and knowledge. The way forward is not to ban profits but to focus on quality. I therefore support reservations 1 and 5.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-264	Mr President, I would like to I would just like to add to my previous speech the request for the approval of reservation 1.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-265	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the joint reservations 1 and 2 of the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party. In a world of constant change, strong and equal welfare plays a role. It plays a role in developing and daring to face the only thing we know for sure, namely that tomorrow is completely different from yesterday. One of the greatest insights that my under 25 years as a elected representative has given me is how well-being, concretely and directly, affects people's everyday lives – how it creates security in old age, provides opportunities for life in young people and increases people's freedom and conditions for a good and meaningful life. Well-being releases people from the fetters of the economic subordination. We do not become dependent on our own financial resources to take part in health care, school and care. We do not have to give up much of our life to care for relatives who need such services and cannot buy them on the market. This is how the Swedish model has developed. It has built on the principle of public interest that the resources we devote together to common affairs should be used for what they are intended for and that we jointly contribute according to our ability so that the welfare is there when it is needed, distributed according to needs. It's simple and timeless. To put it another way: Care, education and care are important for people's opportunities in life. The life spans become smaller when they do not exist. Mr President, I would like to Sweden stands out. Today, the common welfare is under attack. Not anywhere in the world has welfare been so governed by market principles with so many commercially profit-driven companies in the publicly funded school and with so many profit-driven companies in the publicly funded welfare. There is reason to pause for a moment and reflect on the development, the marketisation, we see of our common welfare. The trend is that larger, national groups are formed that operate in many municipalities and county councils. In the health and social care sector, for example, large groups dominate, most of which are wholly or largely owned by venture capital companies. In a way, this is not very strange. If you apply the logic of the market, you also get the results of the market. Low entry requirements to establish themselves and limited capital requirements in conjunction with the relatively secure revenues of a tax-financed business with stable and predictable demand have meant strong economic drivers for the establishment and purchase of activities in the welfare sector. With low risk and good cash flows in a new, expansionary industry with high rate of change and frequent change of ownership, the development is driven towards groups controlled by venture capital companies. Diversity disappears and freedom of choice is restricted. Mr President, I would like to What we have seen in recent years is an increased difficulty for municipalities and county councils to plan welfare activities. What is commonly called freedom of choice has more often been about freedom of choice for companies, not for us who need welfare. There is currently almost a free right of establishment for certain types of welfare companies. At the same time, we have all seen how businesses can suddenly close down. Students are more or less left in the lurch, while the municipality has the ultimate responsibility to ensure that they still receive their education. That's good. But such responsibility also requires that we have the right tools. It is not reasonable that welfare companies can more or less choose where they want to establish themselves without taking into account what those who live there think or what the conditions are otherwise. This has led to over-establishment in many places and a short-term approach to planning, which goes out to those who use welfare. And when the profits are no longer high enough, there is a risk that the company will just leave. The Association of Business and Social Sciences showed that marketization was usually driven through only a process of ideological credence as a basis for decision-making. Expressen's editorial page wrote that, Sweden has been transformed into an experimental workshop for welfare services. And the outcome has not been what its authors dreamed of. Instead of passionate people, we've got venture capital companies. In many cases, the spin-offs resulted in millions in private pockets. Scandals have relieved each other. "Cold facts showed how a free school in Malmö refused to give Conrad, 8 years old, with mild autism the resources he needed on the grounds that it was too expensive. At the same time, the owner took out SEK 5 million from the business into its own company. Mission review showed how Health's preschool pushed the food budget down to SEK 9 per person per day, so that the children could eat crisp bread and drink water for breakfast. Even so, Health's preschool was profitable for several years in a row. Around Europe, Sweden is used as a deterrent – by British Tories, by Norwegian Høyre and by the Danish right. Mr President, I would like to In today's debate we will hear a collective bourgeois choir singing the praise of the market, where our children are made into customers and our elderly into commodities. We will hear the well-known mantra of these profit-driven welfare companies' defenders, namely that it does not matter who runs the retirement home or school – the important thing is to safeguard quality. But such claims, Mr President, are only slightly wiser than if the farmer were to say that he has nothing against foxes in the chicken farm – as long as they are vegetarians. Rather, what private, profit-making operators offer is often breast-feeding services such as the municipality. Freedom of choice has come to consist of a choice between different brands rather than a choice of content in the service. That is why today's debate on welfare gains is a much bigger issue than the percentages of profits that can be accepted. It is a question of the fundamental principles that should govern our common welfare – how it should be organised, distributed and financed. If you apply the logic of the market, you get the results of the market. When the school system is exposed to market forces, the final result is measured by the owners' profits and not by the pupils' knowledge. If the school is a service on the market, the lack of equivalence is not a problem. It becomes the students' – or, with market terminology, customers' – fault if they choose a bad school, and competition will gradually knock out some schools and leave some others behind. Examples of this were seen when the John Bauer Group suddenly went bankrupt two weeks before graduation in 2013. As a result, 11 000 pupils without schools faced the autumn term. And while the students' school situation was deteriorating, the owners had taken off profit distributions and interest income through advanced corporate schemes. Mr President, I would like to Several studies have shown that there is a grade inflation in profit-making free schools. Despite higher grades, students fare worse in the first year at the university, according to a report from the Swedish National Agency for Education from February. In another recent report, from the Institute for Enterprise Research, Jonas Vlachos very clearly shows that all school groups consistently score higher than municipal schools after taking into account the results of the national tests. Schools belonging to the International English School and the School of Knowledge are particularly distinguished in this regard. If you apply the logic of the market, you get the results of the market. Higher grades become a sales argument, and grade inflation becomes a fact. When profitability is allowed to control, the care prefers customers who are healthier. Mr President, I would like to For those of us who believe in real diversity and real freedom of choice, the conclusion is simple: the development of large, growing groups that subjugate smaller, often non-profit players, must be broken. A system in which ideas-based and smaller players, who do not primarily run their business in order to make profits, must be highlighted and given a greater role. The purpose of profit as a driving force simply controls the activities wrong. All children must be given equal opportunities to assimilate the knowledge and abilities they need for life. All schools must be good schools. Development is achieved through cooperation and learning, not through competition. It is the freedom of choice of users and citizens that we must safeguard, not the right of welfare companies and venture capitalists to make more or less free private profit out of our common, tax-funded welfare. Knowledge should be the focus of Swedish school, and grades should reflect students' knowledge – not the profit hunt of school companies. Mr President, I would like to As a social democrat, I believe in the very simple principle that common resources that we set aside for common affairs should be used for what they are intended for. This principle has served Sweden and the Swedish people well. It has created equality and given people the tools to free themselves from the shackles of the economic subordination. Against this Swedish model stands today a bourgeois view of society where market logic governs how welfare resources are distributed and who has the opportunity to succeed in life.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-289	Mr President, I would like to So the proposal to limit profits in welfare is finally up for debate – this important issue which dominated the previous elections and which has been kept up to date throughout the term of office. It is a major issue that is crucial for the people's confidence in society and what is our common elements – what we build together. Basically, it is about what people can expect from publicly funded welfare and how we want to prioritise tax money and ensure the quality of activities financed by public funds. We know that a majority of Sweden's population wants to stop the pursuit of profit in welfare. Just now, we debated permit requirements, and that is a good thing. It is good to have, and it is good that we can agree on it fairly. But that's not enough. We want it to be clear that our common tax money should go to make school and care better. The welfare is for our children, students, users and the elderly. This is not always the case with the current legislation. When the decision to allow private companies in the welfare sector was taken in the 1990s, the idea was that freedom of choice would be increased by allowing companies as well as associations, cooperatives and other forms of actors to offer a variety of, for example, educational methods and orientations in welfare. By allowing several options, citizens would have freedom of choice through access to a variety of activities. Although in many areas there are examples of performers with new orientations and ideas that have contributed to wider supply and development, the reform has not led to the great diversity of supply that was the idea when it was introduced. The number of non-profit actors is much the same now as when the reform was implemented. It is above all private profit-making companies that have grown sharply, at the expense of others. The new players often offer the same services as the municipality. Freedom of choice therefore risks primarily consisting of a choice between different brands and less of a choice of content in the service, where the idea-based sector now plays a modest role. The overall picture is therefore that the trend is towards large groups that are subduing an increasingly large part of the market. Small companies, parent cooperatives and other smaller players in the field have been largely acquired and taken over by group companies that may be larger than large municipalities. It risks leading to uniformity rather than diversity – contrary to what was the purpose of the law. We in the Green Party are still in favour of a variety of directions and actors, as it was originally intended. We see that not all people are exactly the same. People have different preferences, which need to be acknowledged through a variety of performers and actors. We in the Green Party believe, above all, in the power of intelligent activities, where there is an idea of how something can be done in the best way and a driving force to do it for the benefit of the individual. We will continue to protect that. The idea-driven actors have a small share of welfare activities today. We want to strengthen them, and this is done with the proposal that is before us. As their activities are not profit-oriented or profit-driven, they are not covered by the new regulations. If the proposal were to go through, it would be a clear step towards giving them more space in the area of welfare, which would have strengthened commitment and activity as well as society as a whole. At the same time, it must be stated, once again, that activities in the welfare sector must not and cannot be managed as in any market. We are not consumers in relation to welfare; we are citizens. There are countless examples of what the prize hunt in school leads to: big profits that are distributed to shareholders and sometimes also placed in tax havens, crisp bread for breakfast for children and now, last week, an independent study by the Institute for Enterprise Research that shows that joy certificates are handed out by private schools. This is a great betrayal of the students. Profit-driven groups gain by competing with high grades, but students are left without what really matters, namely great knowledge, stated Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin when this result became known. Wrong drivers, in this case an overall desire for profits to be picked out, instead of increased quality and better activities, provide lower teacher density and lower wages, lower staffing in the care of the elderly and insecure employment for the staff. The legislation as it stands now also runs the risk of adding to the segregation, because as a private company, you are happy to establish yourself where the costs are lowest and the profits can be greatest. We in the Green Party were very clear at the time of the election that we believe that tax funds should be used for the activities they are intended for and that any surplus should be reinvested in the business. We went to elections on this, and it was also established in the new election manifesto that we adopted at our congress last week. Finally, there is a proposal on Parliament's table – a proposal that would stop the pursuit of profit in welfare. The fact that tax money should not be drawn freely should be self-evident, but unfortunately we do not seem to agree on it, now that the bourgeoisie and the Swedish democrats are voting down the proposal and becoming the answer guilty of what should be done instead. But for us in the Green Party it is clear: money for welfare should go to welfare. I therefore support the reservations expressed by MP, S and V.
i-NqnRs64ggXQPHMapSKZM4G	Mr President, I would like to I also support reservations 1 and 2. There's 300 billion here waiting for us. It is a deathproof placement, said SAF's then CEO, Moderate Ulf Laurin, when the bourgeoisie led by the Moderates began the privatisation of the school in the early 90s. A dream would come true. I can see before me how he really gloated at the thought of how much money they could earn, and this without risking anything themselves in the quasi-market of welfare. A gigantic welfare experiment began, unique throughout the world. And they made a lot of money, millions after millions and billions after billions rolled in. I can imagine that it was surely one or other Christian Democratic corporate owners who quietly proclaimed Hallelujah – it rains manna from the sky! We all know that the banks have partyed free, but few know that it is twice as much return on owning a school as on owning a bank and that it is three times more profitable to run a retirement home than to own a bank. Is this reasonable? No, not at any point. Imagine that taxpayers basically bear all the costs of the private welfare companies, and owners are usually paid in advance. Taxpayers are responsible for operating, advertising, personnel costs, materials, wages and profits, and it is also risk-free. People break legs whether it's high- or recession, children need education and grandmother care, and taxpayers are involved in paying even the companies' buy-in of other welfare companies. And the bourgeoisie is helping. They draw up coercive laws that force privatisations around the country and sell out joint welfare activities at heavy sub-prices. No one beats Stockholm City, which sold public welfare activities worth SEK 80 million over a year for SEK 3.4 million. This was even against the law, but what is not done for your friends when they want to make money? The welfare professionals, no matter how we measure, earn far better than those who run other privately funded service activities. And this is what the Swedish Democrats and the bourgeoisie will stand here today to defend. English School, Academedia, Knowledge School, Aleris, Frösunda, Capio and other welfare companies are gold calves fertilized with tax funds. Of course they're loitering wildly. They attack, threaten, advertise and write. Oh, how much energy and money they spend to keep that privilege, and they now have billions of reasons to do so. In addition, Lobbyism and campaigning are probably paid for by means of taxes intended for welfare. The creativity is great when it comes to how tax money should benefit the owners. This is what Sweden looks like as the owner of the English School has called communist rule. This is something that most people are upset about, including the voters of the bourgeois parties. It doesn't feel good to work and pay taxes so that the money will then go to lobbyism for profit hunting in welfare and to unlimited profit withdrawals. This undermines confidence in the tax system and general welfare and reduces the scope of democracy. That's why we in the Left Party have been pushing for so long to end the profit hunt in welfare. We were long alone among the political parties but had and have great popular support on this issue. Nowadays, more parties have joined up, and that is very good. But we can also note that without the Left Party we would not have had a bill on Parliament's table today. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats are for unlimited profit withdrawals from welfare, even so much that they would rather vote for the Moderates' motion than for their own. However, I have never heard a Swedish democrat explain why it is reasonable that tax money that would go to Grandma's care should instead be used for other things, anything. And it was also tax money that paid for the profit lobbyists' courtship of the Swedish Democrats to get them to switch sides on the issue. We can only imagine what stood up on that table, because after that was their election promise to stop the prize hunt in school gone. And what is Grandma's concern for the profit lobbyists' interests to enrich themselves on it? In Grandma's care, only the Swedish democrats were allowed to enter the fine room of the business community and thus also closer to the Moderates. Private welfare companies are usually run in the form of limited liability companies. It is a form of company which, according to the Companies Act, has as its sole purpose the acquisition of profits by the owner. The profit target fundamentally affects the company's operations, since only activities that are compatible with the profit interest are carried out. The Swedish Companies Act thus requires a selection, where profitable customers will be selected, as well as profitable products and technologies. If you think of something good, it must not be spread further, because then it is a business secret. What does not fall within the framework of profitability must essentially be removed. The companies do not want to admit this, but we look at it clearly. This is also something that makes us poorer as a society. The school companies are located where the children of well-educated parents live and where they expect to have more profitable children. If a child is expected to require an hour to reach the target and another child ten hours for the same thing, the former is chosen. Then they compete by putting high ratings, and we have grade inflation. This is quite obvious, for no one is looking for a school where the grades are low. It attracts, like, no new customers. When each student gives almost the same money, the money is not enough for those students who have greater needs. They get to go to the less attractive municipal schools, when the money that would have gone to their more resource-intensive teaching instead ended up as a profit to the owners of the private limited company school with more profitable students. Teacher density, wages and levels of education are lower among private school companies, but class sizes are higher. The grades are obviously higher – the privatised school is marketed. Private health care companies naturally establish themselves in socio-economically strong areas, where they expect the residents to have better health and seek care for less costly diseases. Those who live in socio-economically vulnerable areas, that is, those who have the worst health and are the most ill, go to public health centres. This is how the Health Act steers away from equal and needs-driven care. The bourgeoisie and the profit lobbyists have criticised the investigation and the bill that we are now debating. They do this despite the fact that the investigation is very extensive with more than 800 pages. It is well worked out, has involved various experts and has been properly prepared. When they themselves pushed through the privatisation of the school, they had a 20-page bill to the basis, written by two people, both Moderates. They themselves would profit greatly from privatisation. It was so important to earn money from the children's education that all normal preparation was ignored. Since then, many Moderates, Liberals and Christian Democrats have made a lot of money in the tax-funded privatised welfare. A lot of fingers in the jam can is. Self-interest never lies. The bill we are now debating sets a ceiling on the amount of profits that commercial companies can make and ensures that the money will essentially go to the business for which they are intended. Such measures will enable more teachers to be employed, working conditions to be improved, salaries to be increased, more with training to be employed and staffing density and continuing training to increase. In this way we can get better quality. We'll be careful with tax money. Taxpayers should be able to rely on the money being used for the intended purpose. I think politicians who otherwise often talk about responsibility for public finances and consider themselves to be responsible should realise this. But what is responsible for taxpayers' money does not actually seem to be the parade of the right. The fact that there is now a bill that limits the benefits of welfare is a result of the Left Party having made this a requirement in the negotiations with the government. It has not been an easy journey, but now the bill is here, even if the resistance has sometimes been great. That is a good thing is guaranteed not least by the high tone and the money the lobbyists have spent on stopping it. They understand that if the bill were to go through, it would be over with their unhomely profits, and the era of profit hunting in welfare is over. Left would be those who are there for the sake of the business itself, that is, those who should be there. All the facts – all the enormous scandals, huge profits, tax evasion, segregation, inefficiencies and pure crime – show how wrong we have been when we have allowed the prize hunt to run. Even diversity has not increased. There is a large amount of popular support to limit profit draw in welfare. Many also want to ban profit withdrawals altogether. This is the case in the majority of the population. But with its ideology, the Right will vote to allow unlimited profit withdrawals, and unfortunately they have a majority in the Riksdag. We know, however, that one day there will be a change of law in place. The people will not allow tax money for welfare to be spent on enriching the owners. I would therefore like to say to you on the right: you may win the vote on Thursday, but you have not won the question. You do not have the people with you, but far behind you. Well-being is for all of us, not to give profit to owners. The issue of welfare gains is about how we view each other and society. When we go to the health centre, we want to be sure that we receive care based on our needs, not on how profitable we are. When we receive a treatment, we should be sure that it is given to make us healthy, not because it is the most profitable. When our children start school, we want them to meet as students, not as customers or profit opportunities. Mormors's care should be based on consideration and know-how, not on how much profit can be made. Where profit thinking governs, our relationships with each other are affected. Welfare should be a sanctuary from such. Because welfare is the finest thing we can give to each other.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-329	Mr President, I would like to But the briefing shows... a large number of events where students actually beat teachers. These include skulls in the chest, punches in the stomach, hooks, kicks, spit in the face, bites in the hand and slaps. ..................................................... Two women have had gum inflammation because they have not received the oral hygiene they should. One has not had the gait training she needs, and another has had fungal infection under her nails because she has not been helped enough to wash. These are two stories from Swedish welfare, one from Malmö municipal schools and one from Mjölby municipal retirement home. Where there are people, there are also problems. The examples I have now read should never be taken into account in order to close or prohibit the joint municipal welfare activity. It is central to Sweden and for people to have equal and good access to the welfare they deserve. But when it comes to the independent operators, it always sounds the opposite from the left. You lift up a single example of something that has gone wrong and take it to revenue or argument that there should not be diversity or freedom of choice and that you as an individual should not have the power to choose the performer. The Swedish people may have different views on profit or choice issues. But when you talk to and meet people, you notice one thing very clearly: they're very tired of being spoken to as if they were children-- as if they didn't understand or as if they couldn't understand or figure something out for themselves. Everything they encounter must be an onelin, a clever argument, or something that sounds powerful, angry, or excited. I would like to turn to all of you on the left who are here today and say that democracy can actually improve, and we can jointly regain greater confidence in our common institutions, in the common welfare and in the society that we want and build by stopping being so polarising and so aggressive and by stopping using individual examples or individual failures as arguments for major or radical changes. That's not how society works, and that's how people don't want it. For us Moderates and for us in the Alliance, it is obvious that Swedish welfare should be performed with high quality and with good accessibility. We will ensure that all children have good knowledge. We will ensure that care and care are not divided according to the thickness of the wallet but according to the actual need. We must of course have systems, controls and mechanisms that will make our common tax money as useful as possible. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved. Today, when we have this debate after so many harsh words, upset speeches, long debate articles and loud speeches, Swedish welfare has great challenges. One of the biggest is demographic development. The so-called supply ratio ranges from approximately 0.7 to about 0.9. What does that mean? Well, that means that earlier a person of working age needed to support 0.7 others. Soon that figure will be 0, 9, that is, every person of working age needs to support a person who is not. This places demands on efficiency, on the benefits we get from our money and on how we manage to develop common welfare in order to fulfil the task ahead of us. We have major problems with the financing of welfare. It is measured over different time periods, by different institutions and in different ways. But only in recent weeks have we been met with reports that there is a shortage of SEK 30 billion for welfare, or up to 500 billion for welfare in the years to come. We know we have high sickness rates. In all welfare sectors, sickness rates are higher than in society at large. We know that we are facing major welfare challenges when it comes to succeeding in assimilation and incorporating all the new technologies that exist. It can improve the quality of life in all its events, but it can also save money and enable us to perform more services and better services at lower costs. But we also know that we have acute welfare problems. The most acute problem, or at least what is usually pointed out, is the very long medical queues that have been created during this government. We also have problems with the fact that municipal schools do not achieve as high results as they do in free schools. We have problems with free schools rating slightly higher than municipal schools do. We are met with reports of neglect in municipal and individual housing. We are met with reports of aggressive approaches – they are not least possible after the tax exemption that Magdalena Andersson carried out on undetermined nutrient shares. We are also faced with mismanagement of the municipal economy, which leads to very strong and rapid savings in the common welfare. For example, we can read in the newspaper how the Left Party in Degerfors needs to deal with the welfare they are set to care for. These include the removal of night workers in a nursing home and the absence of training for nurses in either end-of-life care or family support. I repeat how the Left Party in Degerfors manages welfare: it is about, among other things, the removal of night workers in a nursing home and the absence of training for nurses in either the end-of-life care or family support. There are therefore serious problems in Swedish welfare. There are also problems with welfare companies or municipal schools not always competing with the things we would prefer or as we want it to be done in society. Of course, we want a retirement home or a home care company to have the best advantage or best marketing in order to choose the best care. Of course, we want all schools to market themselves with their teachers being the best. But, absolutely, sometimes we see examples of other things being valued and highlighted that might not be there. It can be more about technical aids than about what the teacher can actually do, and that should not be the case. I have pointed out challenges with demography, with funding and with how we will manage to absorb the new technology. We have urgent challenges with queues in health care and shortcomings in the municipal economy that are forcing us to make quick and hasty savings. How should we view entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship? Should we look at it as something that makes it harder to solve these problems, or should we look at entrepreneurship as something that can actually help us solve the problems? The people I meet and talk to out in society – who have different political colors, values, origins and so on and who may not necessarily have political missions themselves – are very sceptical about the very heated debate that exists in politics. It's binary. You put things against each other. Either there can be free performers, or everything must be municipal. Politicians on each side must as much as possible throw bad examples in each other's face. The people I meet think about themselves at home at the kitchen table rather about how things can actually get better. There is a great insight and a deep knowledge about that innovation, innovation, entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship many times – not in a magical way and not always but all that often, over time and on the whole – helps to make things better. It is about being able to have cost control, to compare different options with each other, to test, to test, to read through, to evaluate and to follow up in a way that is only possible where diversity exists and that never goes where there is stupidity. It is about that in the field of entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship sometimes in their desire to make money is absolutely more experimental. You're ready to try new things. They are prepared to use new technologies. They are prepared to try new models to manage their staff and take care of their staff. Here we see the Left Party sitting on the benches laughing at this. But the fact is that when you ask staff how they experience entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship, they say that their opinions respect better in private business and their suggestions are taken more into account. They feel that they are better able to influence shortcomings in their workplace than in municipal operations. They feel that their tasks are more frequent and more timely at the scheduled time. They feel more that their immediate boss is skilled in his or her professional practice. On the whole, they are more motivated to carry out their duties. But above all, you can compare sickness absence. It is, depending on which part of the welfare you look at, 10 – 25 percent lower. At this point, the left side wants to completely remove entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship and the very core of entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship. This is in a situation where the demographic challenge is wide-ranging, where the cost challenge is wide-ranging and where the challenge of bringing new technologies into these sectors is wide-ranging – and staff are more satisfied in these activities. To do this would be devastating to our common ability to cope with the jointly funded welfare. To remove entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship from welfare would be to create an A-team and a B-team in a way that we do not want in Sweden and that we have never seen before. With entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship, better opportunities and new opportunities come – not always, not everywhere and not at the same time but over time. If we cannot keep entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship within the jointly funded welfare it will be divided as in the United States, where most people, many times the most vulnerable people, will have to settle for what is offered publicly and jointly and where others buy other solutions. We in the Alliance do not want welfare to develop in Sweden. We don't want an A-team and a B-team. We only want an A law, and that requires everyone to be there – those who need the care, those who go to school but also those who do, whether it be municipalities or private companies. I appeal to you, do not divide Sweden! Don't cut Sweden between those who can afford and those who can't afford it! Keep Sweden together by letting everyone join! Take the hand that is stretched out here today! It's about stopping having an ideological war around welfare. Instead, take the challenge of discussing the problems and challenges that exist! Listen to what Kjell-Kjell-Olof Feldt says! Listen to what your municipal chairman in Norrköping, Lars Stjernkvist, says! Listen to the bourgeois council Karin Wanngård in Stockholm! Listen in Skåne to Henrik Fritzon! They don't want you to push this through. Today there was a new survey showing that only 11% of the Social Democratic councillors believe that a profit ban would bring more welfare. Thus, 89% of your people in the municipalities do not believe that this will improve. We know that seven out of ten nurses believe that it is better that there is diversity among employers. Eight out of ten think they have better chances of succeeding in their career and in their jobs if there are private performers. There are 14 000 companies operating in these areas. 240 000, almost a quarter of a million, people today work in professions affected by this parliamentary decision. And there are 340 000 students going to schools at risk of being shut down if what is currently in the bill is being pushed through. My final appeal to the left-wing bloc in Swedish politics is: Now see this for what it is! Take off the ideological blinders! Stop taking suggestions to Parliament that you know only causes discord! Instead, listen to the nurses, nurses, doctors, teachers, special educators, and all the other professions that exist! Become more pragmatic and have a joint discussion with us about how welfare can be better in Sweden! Let me finish with a story about one person. I quote from Nerikes Allehanda: When the municipal school did not provide the support Maja Nykvist needed to read and write, she and her family chose to switch to a free school with a five-mile route one-way trip. .....................................................
i-74ae51410f0d616e-358	Of course, it was hard to change schools. But everyone was nice and you got the help you needed, says Maja, who is happy at school. Maja has now attended the free school for two years, and despite early mornings, long journeys and high petrol costs, it is worth it, says Annika, Grandma and Maja. – It's so fun to see Maja happy to go to school, not worried and sad as she could be before. The school is good at taking advantage of what the students are good at and developing it, so they learn a little more. ..................................................... So there is not a solution for all people, but with the proposal put on the table by the Left today, Majas's opportunity to switch to another school would no longer exist. The PWC has clearly highlighted this. It has also been clearly demonstrated that, under the terms of this bill, it is not possible to carry out activities other than municipal activities. There's not one size, one way, that fits everyone. I can only say with great disappointment that the Green Party has abandoned its previous ideals in this area. I ask you to reconsider, because welfare needs other than ideological conflicts.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-363	Mr President, I would like to Now you have dismissed our speeches as shrewd and lofty, Niklas. Then I would like to draw the honourable Member's attention to the investigation on which both the proposal and the report are based. It's hardly grand and loud, rather dry and factual. Above all, it is not 800 pages of onelins. We can recall the 2008 financial crisis. Even then, in a financial crisis, then finance market minister Peter Norman realized that we have more rules in banking than we have in privately driven welfare business. The bourgeois government under Fredrik Reinfeldt's leadership then chose to set up the Owner Review investigation and already pointed out in the directives that we see a trend towards a few major companies that dominate the market, which ultimately means that we risk both diversity and freedom of choice. Mr President, I would like to From Reinfeldt's legacy, we don't see anything. The neo-liberal idea of the excellent logic of the market has taken root in the bourgeoisie. I wonder: who in Parliament is it that wages ideological war? It is clear, of course, what interests the bourgeoisie and Niklas Wykman represent through proposals for lower wages, market rents, no to the right to deduct trade union membership fees and yes to free profit withdrawals in welfare. One could wish and still pray that Wykman and his party colleagues picked up the phone to their old employer Anders Borg and his boss Fredrik Reinfeldt, who might have been able to tell them that it is time to stop the prize hunt and guarantee diversity in Swedish welfare.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-367	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Karlsson talks about many things but not about any of the things that have to do with this matter. I intend to discuss the matter before us; I think that the health workers, the nurses, the 350 000 students and the 250 000 people who work in this business deserve it and not ideological twats of various kinds. It would be better if we discussed it. Niklas Karlsson raised the matter of ownership review, which we debated earlier today. There we are largely in agreement, so it is probably unclear to anyone who listens what it has to do with this matter. This is about you wanting to introduce regulations that would risk activities affecting 250 000 people working and 350 000 students. This would mean that many businesses would have to shut down. Estimates show that today there is an average of SEK 6.50 to pay interest, taxes and investments and to build a buffer. If the proposal put on the table by the government is implemented, there would be about 30 cents to make investments and have a buffer over. It is not possible to run care for the elderly or schools or other welfare activities. As the PWC has stated, the proposal would lead to its closure. With regard to the 800 pages you refer to, Niklas Karlsson, you obviously know that the person responsible for the calculations in the investigation resigned in protest because the investigation refused to take into account the facts. So this may not be as thorough as one might wish.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-372	Mr President, I would like to It is hardly an excuse but possibly an explanation that the Moderates and Niklas Wykman do not really want to answer the questions. When not argument or broad popular opinion bites bourgeois representatives, I may be able to send a few words of the national poet Werner von Heidenstam, who once dismissed the labour movement and the Social Democracy as a proletarian philosophic force. It may not upset the Moderates in their dogmatic belief in the market and its logic, but it may bite if not argument or popular opinion. As though we had a fatherland, we all inherited it equally, with the same right, and with the same bond for the poor and the rich; and therefore we will vote freely as before among the shields and the bows, but not be weighed in the midst of merchants, like money bags on scales. We fought together for homes and hearths when our coasts were burned. Not the lords alone took to the sword, when the warning box was lit. Not the gentlemen alone went down, but also the men's servants. It is a shame, it is a stain on Sweden's banner, that civil rights are called money.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-375	Mr President, I would like to I can of course repeat that I think that Sweden's healthcare assistants, nurses, doctors and teachers deserve a different and better discussion. But we have the discussion we have. We're on their side, and we're on the side of these students. A wise person and social democrat, Kjell-Kjell-Olof Feldt, tried to prevent the 90s crisis but was then deposed by his own party and replaced with Allan Larsson. Kjell-Kjell-Olof Feldt also tried to stop employee funds, which created major problems for Swedish jobs and Swedish growth. Speaking of poems, Kjell-Kjell-Olof Feldt wrote a famous poem that went like this: Payroll funds are a piece of shit, but now we've got them all the way here. Kjell-Kjell-Olof Feldt has said that this is an even worse proposal, so I recommend Niklas Karlsson a broader poem repertoire in the future.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-379	Mr President, I would like to Given everything we know about the consequences of the privatisation of welfare, I would say that it is ideological blindness to stick to this welfare experiment. Sweden is unique in the world about allowing unlimited winnings; Niklas Wykman also knows that. What, though, if it is not ideological blindness to threaten schools to spend money on students? Is it not ideological blindness to sell out schools at massive under-prices in order to allow private school owners to make a profit? Is it not ideological blindness to sell out health centres for 700 000 when they are worth 20 million? Is it not ideological blindness to note that private elderly care and school are understaffed and have lower wages and lower working conditions and then defend it? Niklas Wykman is referring to the PWC report which has flourished in the debate. However, he forgets to mention that it is written by Peje Emilsson's accountant. Peje Emilsson is now CEO of Knowledge School, but he was the author of the 20-page bill that formed the basis for this whole welfare experiment. He is also moderate, like many others in privatized welfare. Is it not true, Niklas Wykman, that it is ideological blindness to stand here and defend this welfare experiment when there are so many facts on the table that tell us where we have ended up and what consequences it has had?
i-74ae51410f0d616e-382	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by giving Ulla Andersson the right thing in large parts. The type of spin-off that occurred a long time ago – it's a method that hasn't been used for a long time – was affected by several errors, and it didn't turn out well. You don't do that anymore. There I think that Ulla Andersson, as many times before – not always, of course, but many times – points to important points. It is not a good way to deal with choice, diversity and competition in welfare. That's what you learn from when things aren't right. But to move away from it again to address the Swedish population as if they were children or did not understand and say that it means that all forms of entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship, diversity, freedom of choice and the opportunity to invest or make money are wrong, yes, it leads to quite extreme conclusions. Such extreme conclusions will not help Swedish welfare to meet its challenges with care queues, demographic problems and financing problems. Contrary to entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship. Of course, good municipal activities are also needed there. It is worrying when you hear Ulla Andersson and read about the Left Party in Degerfors, which cannot manage the municipal economy. According to the newspaper, this involves, among other things, the removal of night workers in a nursing home and the absence of training for nurses in either end-of-life care or family support. But this is not, of course, an argument against jointly funded welfare or municipal welfare, Mr President, but is primarily an argument for replacing the Left Party in Degerfors. Here, Ulla Andersson, we still need a little better level. The fact that everything has not been quite right all the time does not mean that everything is always wrong. That puts you in extreme positions. Unfortunately, there is the Left Party, which has brought with it the Social Democrats.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-387	Mr President, I would like to Extreme discussions – that means that Niklas Wykman believes that a large majority of the Swedish people are having an extreme discussion when they want to ensure that the tax money they have paid goes into the business for which they are intended. That was a very strange idea, I must say. Can Niklas Wykman explain to me why we should allow unlimited profit withdrawals from welfare? After all, it is tax money that we use and which is intended for care, education and health care. Moreover, it is quite a large amount of money we are talking about; the excess profits in 2015 were 4.7 billion. That corresponds to the wages of 12,500 nurses. Wouldn't it have been better if they had worked in the care of the elderly and that we had increased staff density and made sure that wages could be increased? Niklas Wykman knows, as I do, that a nurse in the privatised care of the elderly earns about 800 000 less is a assistant nurse in municipal care for the elderly during a working life. A high school teacher in an independent school here in Stockholm earns about 11⁄2 million less on his job than a high school teacher in the municipal school in Stockholm. This is money that goes to the owners instead. They go to owners such as Peje Emilsson or Anders Hultin, the CEO of the JB Group, who also participated in writing this proposal once upon a time. I would like to say that the high tailings, threats and propaganda of the Moderates on this issue are very much about self-interest. For there are very many of your members, ministers and councillors who themselves run welfare companies or are employed by welfare lobbyists. Let us make sure that tax money goes to what it is intended for instead.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-393	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by rejecting, for what I judge, a very large part of this Parliament's behalf, the kind of accusations – almost criminal charges – about corruption and so on that Ulla Andersson comes with. If there are suspicions of such things, it must, of course, be investigated within the framework of the judicial system we have. We cannot stand here and just dissipate ourselves in any case; in that case, it must be dealt with within the framework of the rule of law. Ulla Andersson's argumentation is sharp and harsh, but when you meet about a quarter of a million people who work in this business and listen to what they have to say, they are generally more satisfied. If you look at the nurses, nurses and teachers who are employed at least in the organised parts of the business, you can see that they have higher salaries, and Ulla Andersson knows that for sure. They don't have lower wages. Then you can always trix with the statistics as much as you want. One might imagine that there are small companies that have more people who are half-time or part-time workers and make such commitments. But then – once again – the Swedish people are treated as if they did not understand and as if they were children they were talking to. But it's not that. So there are a great many people who go to free schools every day and who work in this business. It involves 14 000 companies, 340 000 pupils and a quarter of a million jobs. It's about Kjell-Kjell-Olof Feldt, who doesn't think this is good. It's about Lars Stjernkvist, who doesn't think this is good. It's about leading social democrats in Region Skåne and leading social democrats in Stockholm City Hall who don't think this is good. Only 11% of Social Democratic local politicians believe that this is a good thing, and only 5% of the Green Party's local politicians believe that this brings better welfare. We should show more humility and devote ourselves a little less to ideology and a little more to tackling the major problems. I recommend Ulla Andersson to go to her government cooperation and ask why we have doubled the care queues. This would be something to deal with and to solve instead of a fictitious problem. The billions you're talking about aren't right either.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-401	Mr President, I would like to This is probably the least thought-out proposal put forward throughout this parliamentary term, possibly excluding the report that we are going to debate next. Nothing – absolutely nothing – will be better with this proposal. No one will win; on the contrary, there will be plenty of losers. In the first place, I am thinking of the 340 000 children and young people – and of course their parents – who are today in independent schools. These schools want this government to close down. The Socialist minority government here shows its true colors. In an ideological zeal, and imposed by the Communist Party, the government is prepared to completely disregard the consequences for the individual citizen with a view to abolishing freedom of choice for the individual and for the family. That, Mr President, is directly shameful. Of a total of 1 392 individual independent schools now under threat of closure, the absolute majority is to be regarded as small operators, usually with only one head. Many of our absolutely best schools are very independent. The International English School has been mentioned earlier in the debate. They have over 160 000 students in line, where children with their parents have volunteered. Something they're doing right. Here in Stockholm, more than half of all high school students attend an independent school. In the whole kingdom, the corresponding figure is just over a quarter. One cannot even imagine the burden on the individual municipality if all these schools are forced to close down. But, Mr President, let us look a little forward in time and not just get stuck because this particular term of office happens to be coming to an end. The number of children and adolescents is expected to increase by 325 000 by 2027. So it is almost a ten-year period. These are children who are going to preschool, primary and secondary school. If this task for the municipality is to be solved at all, all reasonable forecasts indicate that the number of open school places needs to increase significantly; they do not need to decrease or disappear. Although the proportion of pupils in independent schools would decrease, the number will increase. This is what I think the debate should be about. This is what we should have focused on during the term of office – how to develop the school. We're not going to phase out much of it. What will the school look like in ten years' time, with a further 325 000 individuals aged 0 - 19? How do we meet that challenge? Everything, as you know, is called in political language. This bill does absolutely nothing to overcome this. On the contrary, it makes the problems even worse. When, in the next step, the proposal goes ahead and introduces the same principles also for health care, almost every other health centre will be forced to close down. How would our county councils cope with such a situation? The simple answer is that they wouldn't. This whole proposal is an extremely hard blow to the heart of Swedish welfare. Mr President, I would like to Is everything thus peace and joy in what the situation is today? No, it is not – not in all respects. Therefore, in connection with this report, the Swedish Democrats have put forward several proposals, all of which are aimed at improving the quality of welfare – for real. We identify genuine problems and present concrete solutions – for real. Throughout all the proposals for quality increases are that they apply equally to everyone, regardless of their mode of operation and whether the principal is a municipality, a limited liability company, a cooperative, a foundation or any other organisation or association. It is the same conditions and the same high standards. Mr President, I would like to We shall have clear rules on permits, which we have debated in this House in the past, to be able to open and run a school, a retirement home, a health centre or whatever it may be. Owners, board, management, business plan and financial plan shall be tested to ensure long-term and sustainable operations of high quality. Distributing profits shall not be possible unless economic stability exists. It's important. Unfortunately, it doesn't seem any better than the government screwing up this opportunity. I think I have stood here in the speaker's chair and said it probably ten times by now: you are in a minority. If you want to get your proposals through, you must seek support and gather a majority for them in this House. It's not very difficult to understand such a rather trivial thing. Mr President, I would like to We will greatly increase the supervision of welfare activities. From having mainly one or two pre-announced checks, we shall have several unannounced checks. We Swedish democrats are also increasing the funding for the School Inspectorate specifically for this purpose in our budget motion. There should, of course, be predictable and clear sanctions in the event that any operator, whether public or private, fails to carry out its mission. It can range from an obligation to address a detected deficiency to government coercive administration. I am not at all hesitant to resort to it if it is necessary, or indeed to withdraw the authorisation itself to carry on the business. Actually, it's very simple: The good actors we should keep and the bad ones should go away, point. And the remuneration that finances this should be more uniform and more linked to the performance over time. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats will not contribute to any initiatives aimed ultimately at abolishing the individual citizen's freedom of choice. It won't happen. On the other hand, we are prepared to discuss all initiatives aimed at improving the quality of welfare. The Government's proposal is aimed solely at abolishing freedom of choice. That is why on Thursday this week we will put an end to it. Mr President, I would like to I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-421	Mr President, I would like to We hear big words from the representatives of the Swedish Democrats that this is the least thought-out proposal – as I see it – throughout the parliamentary term that is being discussed in the Swedish Parliament and that absolutely nothing would be better if it were to go through. At the same time, I note that Jimmie Åkesson, party leader of the Swedish Democrats, in a debate in News and News last week agrees with Prime Minister Stefan Löfven that it is becoming grade inflation in Swedish school, and he thinks that as much as possible of each invested tax krona should be used for what it is intended. At the same time, I note that Jimmie Åkesson said as late as October 2014: We have gone to elections that we want limits on profit withdrawals in welfare. It is basically a good thing if you do a review. Richard Jomshof, party secretary, says the same year that Sweden should follow the line that applies in the rest of the Nordic countries, where free schools may not withdraw any profits from the business. Instead, these should be reinvested in the business. Björn Söder says that the Swedish Democrats want a ban on profits being collected from the business to be introduced for individual principals. Basically, school money is tax money that is added to the education system to educate students for the benefit of both themselves and society. The fact that tax funds are being taken out of the business, he says, with the risk of lower teacher density and lower teaching quality, we believe that Swedish democrats are unreasonable. And Paula Bieler says in the SD Curren the same year: It may seem strange that those who usually talk the most about the importance of reducing taxes at the same time are those who have the least problem with tax revenue being collected in profits. Reasonably, it should be those who are most upset that their hard-earned money does not go to the business that is expected but lands on other people's accounts. What happened, Oscar Sjöstedt?
i-74ae51410f0d616e-428	Mr President, I would like to What I am referring to now that we are clearly landing in the view of the Swedish Democrats on this whole issue is the decision that the Swedish Democrats took at the election conference that we had in March 2014. This is the contract we have concluded with the voters who voted for us in the elections. It is quite obvious and clear that this is the line I am setting out here. Perhaps we now have a somewhat more concrete line. But the line is the same; it has not changed in any way. So nothing has happened. I think that, when Mr Karlsson thinks of profit limitation, he sees the Ilmar Reepalu investigation before him, that it can only be done that way. After all, it is possible to achieve a limitation of actual profits in very many ways. This is probably the worst part. Introduce a profit ban that will phase out all private businesses is probably the worst way to achieve a limitation of the profits that may arise in private limited liability companies operating in the welfare sector. The best way, and what we propose, is to have very high demands on the content of the business. Then the winnings are limited. If you meet the high standards that we as politicians should set and yet make a profit, I have no problem with that. So the same thing can be achieved in slightly different ways. I did not say that this is the least thought-out proposal. I said that it is the least thought-out proposal except for the report that we are going to debate next, namely on the afgha-namesty for full-grown men. But it'll come later. I would also like to say a few words about grading inflation. But I don't think I have time for that, so I'll get back to you in the next line.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-433	Mr President, I would like to Now the Swedish Democrats say that the line is the same. I could read out the quotes that I read out in my previous speech one more time, and it had become clear once again that it is not at all the same opinion as the Swedish Democrats now. For time winning, I call on those who are watching this debate to look at the previous line in replay. You've changed your mind, and you admit it yourself. Oscar Sjöstedt himself says in Ekot on 26 May 2015: No, I do not deny that there are political tactics in our actions. Furthermore, Per Ramhorn, who is a health policy spokesman for the Swedish Democrats, says when the Swedish Democrats are courted by lobbyists in 2015: The interest was enormous. We received so many requests that we had to arrange a queue. Something's happened. The line isn't the same. What is sad about this is that the Swedish democrats are throwing their old politics all the way. Although there is a broad popular perception that the money that we spend on common affairs should be used for that very purpose, we change hands. It has a completely different view and talks about there being quality requirements to govern this. But it is not prepared to specify who it is. If what Oscar Sjöstedt is in Parliament's pulpit saying today is genuinely meant to find solutions on how to limit the benefits of welfare, I am the first to take advantage of Oscar Sjöstedt to introduce such a restriction. I am not locked up in this proposal, which I think is wise and resourceful. However, in the absence of other proposals, that is what we have to take a position on. Instead of just lowering the proposal, the Swedish Democrats should come up with their own proposals. Then we can find a majority in the Swedish Parliament to use the resources efficiently and ensure that the money goes to what it was intended.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-441	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Karlsson can read out just how many quotes he wants that are relevant – or totally irrelevant, what it seems. We had a long discussion at our election conference in March 2014 and landed in a line on this issue, and that is the line that applies. It hasn't changed. It's not like that. Most people have the Internet. Google is your friend – go nuts! Niklas Karlsson claims that we do not have the people with us on this issue. Yes, we do. According to the latest polls, a minority of voters support the government's bill. It also depends a little on how you ask the question. Asking what is more important, the government's proposal or maintaining freedom of choice? 中 responds to the sympathizers of all parties except the Communist Party that it is more important to retain freedom of choice. Is it reasonable that private companies in the welfare sector have a return on the services sector as a whole? A majority of our sympathizers and a majority of the entire electorate respond yes. That's it. Swedish people like freedom of choice. The Social Democrats and the government obviously do not. That is what this issue is about, freedom of choice versus monopoly. We safeguard freedom of choice, and we do so together with the alliance parties, for which we are grateful. The two government parties and the Left Party advocate monopoly. It's as simple as that.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-448	Mr President, I would like to I don't think there's any other party that would call an election promise irrelevant. I think many people remember how Ji mmie Åkesson stood in the big TV debates ahead of the elections and promised that the prize hunt would end. Profit distribution at school would even be banned. If we want to develop the school, the main responsibility of politics should be to ensure that tax money goes to the school itself and not to the school owner. Otherwise, the school is drained of money. Oscar Sjöstedt says that most people think it is reasonable for private welfare to have the same return as other privately funded service activities. Yes, that is exactly what this proposal proposes. Why, then, do Oscar Sjöstedt and the Swedish Democrats urge rejection of the bill? Profits in welfare are also about democracy. For every municipal activity that is privatised, democracy is restricted. We do not have transparency in the boards and cannot see how the tax funds are being used. Does Oscar Sjöstedt think that it is reasonable for tax money to be used for lobbying? I ask because the Swedish Democrats are probably experts on this issue. Was it not precisely in your corridors the venture capitalists ran in full swing to get you to change your mind on this issue? And now you stand here as an obedient servant to the venture capitalists and defend them with wool and hair to ensure their huge future profit draw.
i-UZhToTpejuwDS5sYDwitQS	Mr President, I would like to But please, Ulla Andersson, for God's sake! First of all: Don't become an entrepreneur, Ulla Andersson. It's not gonna go well. In practice, the bill proposes a profit ban, because it is designed in such a way. There is talk of operational capital. Of course, a service provider has low, almost non-existent operational capital. The value of a service company consists in having knowledgeable, committed and competent staff. The book-keeping operating capital is zero, because you do not book your staff. It is not included in the balance sheet. I haven't had a single meeting with a venture capitalist. But I'd be happy to let them know, because I have no problem meeting them. Venture capital is generally good, and many companies could not have started without access to venture capital. I have nothing against venture capitalists, but I haven't had a meeting with them yet. Just as I said in the previous line with Member Niklas Karlsson from the Social Democrats, profit limitation can be achieved in different ways, either in the bad way by banning or in the good way by setting high and clear demands on content, quality and so on. One thing I am curious about is the Left Party and the government parties. Private companies in the welfare sector are run twice as often by women as by men. What do the Left Party and government parties have against female entrepreneurs and female entrepreneurship?
i-74ae51410f0d616e-458	Mr President, I would like to If the owners have inserted capital into the company, it is reasonable for them to get a return on it. But if they have not put in any capital, they should not receive any return. However, they will be paid for their work. That is what this bill is about. I believe that most taxpayers think that this is a reasonable logic and that the tax money they have paid in after working and fighting goes to what they are intended for. It's about a lot of money. In 2015, over-profits amounted to 4.7 billion. This corresponds to 12,500 nurses, who could have taken care of Grandma's care, or about 9,000 teachers. This also corresponds to an increase in the guarantee pension of approximately SEK 1 000. It is much better to use tax funds to improve for schoolchildren, take care of grandmother or increase guarantee pensions. It is not reasonable for the lobbyists who run in your corridors to enrich themselves with tax revenue intended to go to welfare. I ask again, Oscar Sjöstedt: Is it reasonable for tax funds to be used for lobbying and advertising, for the purchase of various private companies and for the enrichment of the owners of companies that often have fewer employees, larger class sizes, lower working conditions and lower wages when tax revenues are so needed in every existing welfare business, for which they are actually intended? Is it not reasonable, then, that they too should go there? That is what taxpayers and voters want. I think you should stand up for your election promises and not call them irrelevant.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-463	Mr President, I would like to It's not like that. I've looked at it and picked up numbers from the Central Statistical Office and others. Is there a difference in these professions, namely nurses, doctors, nurses, teachers and others? No, there are no such pay differences. The fact that one would earn significantly less in a private company than in the public sector is not true. The same applies to staff turnover. Is staff turnover significantly higher in the private companies? It should be if private employers are so useless and municipalities and county councils are Shangri-La. But that's not the case. That is not true; it is completely wrong. In some cases, staff turnover is significantly lower with private employers. A question was asked among teachers in independent schools, that is, with private employers: Would you consider being a teacher in the municipal school? More than half said no. They couldn't imagine working in the municipal school. If you had succeeded in the intention of shutting down all private schools, which, fortunately, you will not succeed in, first and foremost, 340 000 children and young people would not have had a school to attend. Furthermore, a majority of these teachers had not gone to the municipal school. They had disappeared to something else in the public sector or business, I know. At least they had not continued as teachers in the municipal school. That is quite remarkable, and you should have thought of that before you tabled this proposal.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-467	Mr President, I would like to Earlier in the debate, we have heard references to what Fredrik Reinfeldt has said and has not said. I would like to start by remembering what another and soon former Prime Minister has said and done. Prior to the S-Congress in 2009, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven led a working group that then proposed to the party to skip a profit ban because it does not lead anywhere and instead invest in quality requirements, which is the way forward. Imagine how much better our country would have been if the Social Democrats had stuck to that wisdom. We could have done something much better by the time this debate takes us. Let us establish what we are talking about: 340 000 students today go to schools, preschools and high schools run by limited companies, 50 000 people have private home help services and about 240 000 employees are affected by what we are discussing. It is a large part of Swedish welfare, and it is part of this welfare that is here to stay. The Swedish model is constantly evolving. We are now a crushing majority of Swedes who assume that the Swedish model is based on common tax-based financing, which means that it is available to everyone and that everyone has the opportunity to choose, regardless of their wallet. Freedom of choice in Sweden is not something that only those who can afford it can take part in. On the contrary, it is something that everyone, at least those who are lucky enough to live in the right municipality, have the opportunity to take part in. Unfortunately, there are those who have the misfortune of living in social democraticly-governed municipalities – I myself am one of them – where welfare and freedom of choice are still severely limited. We shall, of course, do something about this. Mr President, I would like to Those who sit and listen to such a debate – on television or here in the Chamber – may ask themselves the question: Who should you really trust? I think that we have received a fairly well- summarised review of all the studies and research reports that have been produced in recent years regarding Swedish welfare and private actors within it. The truth is, it's pretty scattered showers. There are publications and other things that conclude that municipal activities over-perform on certain points, while there are those that conclude that the private ones over-perform on other points. It's a complex picture we have to deal with. This is an area which is poorly suited to simplification and black and white descriptions. Let us therefore deal with the issue as complex as it is. We simply have to put it on ourselves to move forward with policies that see reality in all its complexity and solve the real problems. With regard to the bill that has now been put on Parliament's table, it is unclear whether it solves any problems at all. It certainly does not lead to an increase in quality or choice. Many people talk about freedom of choice as having gone too far or that it would be too much. It is a huge metropolitan and Stockholm perspective. In large parts of the country there is nothing to choose from. It's a municipal monopoly when it comes to home care. There are very few free schools, whether in preschools or upper secondary schools, and there is too little choice in welfare. For example, we see at school that it is in those municipalities where there is the least choice – few things to choose from – that the results lag behind. This is bad, and Swedish welfare and choice in welfare must be increased and improved rather than anything else. Mr President, I would like to I can see that we are talking about the matter, but we must also talk about form. We were all able to see three years ago exactly what was going to happen today. It has been clear for a long time that this is a politically dead process. It has been clear for a long time that there will be none of this. What if, instead, one had tried to come up where it is actually possible to arrive and achieve results where it is actually possible to achieve results? Instead, we have had a term of office full of replays of the discussions of the previous electoral movement. I and Ardalan Shekarabi, who are not here right now but who are going up the speaker's chair a little later, met this morning for a debate on this in the CEO's E konomistudio. When we sat in the waiting room TV3 was on, and there was the sitcom The Nanny. It was old and boring when I was young, or at least younger. What I was thinking was, is it still running? I get about the same feeling when I hear this debate. Are these arguments still going? Haven't we moved on, and shouldn't we be moving on? The truth is, yes, it is high time to do so. Let us now vote down this ill-considered proposal, which we will do, and then move forward where there is actually a political breeding ground. We can agree on tougher quality requirements. For example, it may be a question of seeing the problems that are now under discussion and that need to be resolved. Rating inflation is worrying, no matter where it occurs. Some describe grading inflation as a problem only in private education but not in municipal education. The truth is, of course, that grade inflation should be combated wherever it occurs. One way that could lead in the right direction is what we are now discussing and on which we should decide, namely centrally corrected national tests, which could be a counter-force. Other problems that are now being discussed – of course they are problems – are when schools at very short notice disappear. This is an obvious problem, and perhaps more clear state guidelines are needed here. However, the closure and disappearance of schools – we have heard two examples in the course of the debate: John Bauer and something in Karlstad – cannot be a problem only when they are private. Where was the upset from the left when the then Social Democratically ruled Nordmalings municipality closed down a number of village schools during the Christmas holiday? The Christmas graduation was at the village school, but then when it was time to start again after the 13th weekend the school was gone. It's just as unreasonable, isn't it? If we buy that this is a problem, we must solve it, whether it is a private, non-profit or public actor who is responsible for the problem. The way forward is to let the ideological blinders go, sit down and agree on guidelines that guide us towards what we want, namely greater quality and freedom of choice throughout the country. Mr President, I would like to I think Ulla Andersson is quite right. I see many surprised glances in the hall. It's not often that it happens, but when it happens it should be lifted up. Ulla Andersson was quite right here earlier in the discussion when she said that this is thanks to the Left Party. This is obviously a concession to the Left Party. Let us now put an end to this unfortunate parenthesis in the Swedish welfare debate. We are now voting down this proposal, moving on in our lives and ensuring that the rules we put in place and the developments we want in the welfare sector lead to quality and choice, not to the whims of the Left Party.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-485	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking you for the praise. For the Left Party, election promises are important. We do not think they are irrelevant, as other parties, such as the Swedish Democrats, have done here in the pulpit before me. I have a question for Emil Källström : Has the Center Party considered how it will be when the Swedish Companies Act's goal to prepare the owner's profit is the overall goal, with the selection that this entails? Have you thought about why private free schools primarily establish themselves where children with parents with a long education live? Could it be that this is done because you think that these children have less need and that you can make more money? Has the Center Party considered why private health centres establish themselves where the healthiest people are expected to live? Could it be that that's where you think you're making the most money? Has the Center Party considered why the private free schools, for example here in Stockholm, give on average several thousand SEK less in salary to a teacher or why a nurse in the care of the elderly earns much less in the privatised care of the elderly than in the municipal care? Could it be just like the Companies Act, i.e. that the overall objective is to make profits for the owner? Or is the Center Party doing any other analysis of this?
i-74ae51410f0d616e-491	Mr President, I would like to I can assure Ulla Andersson that, on all relevant points, the Center Party is carrying out a different analysis from the Left Party. This is not just about this area. What Ulla Andersson is expressing is in fact the only reasonable position, apart from that of the Center Party and the Alliance. What you argue for, Ulla Andersson, is in fact a ban on public limited companies in the welfare sector. That is an attitude that I do not share, but which I would respect if that were what we were to vote on. Ulla Andersson is arguing against the very idea of having limited liability companies in the welfare sectors. She will then vote in favour of a proposal that allows them to continue to exist. I find that odd. Our line is to safeguard the freedom of choice that we have. We believe that the limited companies that have now existed for 20 years in Swedish welfare will continue to be there. We prepare after this situation and develop both choice and quality. That is what is at the heart of the policy of the Center Party. I have a counter-question to Ulla Andersson. The problems that we see in welfare are as bad no matter who stands for the problems? I was in on that in my speech. Is it as bad when Nordmaling municipality closes three village schools during Christmas holidays as when a private operator does the same? It was a Social Democratic majority, supported by the Left Party, that did this. I didn't see any outrage from Ulla Andersson. I think the problems are just as bad whether they are a private operator or a municipality. What does the Left Party think?
i-74ae51410f0d616e-496	Mr President, I would like to Emil Källström did not answer my questions at all. I asked if you have done any analysis of why these welfare companies are establishing themselves right where the healthiest people are expected to live. Why do private health centres establish themselves where the healthiest people are expected to live? Why are the private school companies setting up precisely where those students who are considered to have the easiest access to the knowledge objectives live? Why do they establish themselves there? Could it have anything to do with the fact that they want the money as their main goal? There will be consequences. Well-being is drained on resources. The investigation that you, Emil Källström, have criticized very hard shows how money goes to other things than they are actually intended for. This is about nearly SEK 5 billion in 2015. In 2017, the ten largest groups made more than SEK 3 billion in profits. Imagine how much this money would have been needed for health care and schools, not least to save village schools. I hope you can answer this, Emil Källström. Do you think that the profit and not the business is the goal? Could it be a reverse order when profit interests rule? Is it reasonable, Emil Källström, that it is three times as high a return in the privatised elderly care as it is to operate and own a bank? Is it reasonable that it is twice as high a return to run a private school as it is to own and run a bank? I do not think the voters think so. The Left Party definitely does not think so. That is why we want to regulate the benefits of welfare. The Center Party believes that there should be unregulated profit withdrawals in welfare for all eternity, it seems, regardless of the consequences.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-500	Mr President, I would like to Ulla Andersson began by criticising me for not answering the question. Then she spent her two minutes not nearly answering the question of whether the problems are equally bad whether they are municipal or private performers. I can only interpret this as having problems only in private welfare. When the same problems arise in the public sector, there is no danger. I think it's a strange posture. Ulla Andersson asked a number of new questions. But they all had the same theme, and it was that Ulla Andersson misinterprets, seemingly consciously, reality. Then I am expected to answer if I think Ulla Andersson's misinterpretations are reasonable or not. I could make it pretty easy for myself. I think it is quite unreasonable, like Ulla Andersson, to just serve out parts of reality and say that you describe the whole reality. As far as the example of village schools is concerned, it is clearly a way of saving village schools to now shut down opportunities for new players and for freedom of choice. I have news for Ulla Andersson. The single most important thing to save schools in rural areas in Sweden – in my part of the country and in Gävleborg from which Ulla Andersson comes – is precisely the opportunity for new actors to start operations when the municipality withdraws. It is the public sector that is pushing for centralisation in particular. Then it is great to be able to have this valve, i.e. that limited companies or parent or staff cooperatives actually care about the small units. Freedom of choice is a way for people to develop their own welfare and ensure that it is the way they want it. That is what choice is all about. If we put all power in the hands of politicians, there is no way for the individual to influence. I think that's bad.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-507	Mr President, I would like to Let me reason a little bit about profit and loss. The Left Party recently wrote an article in which they went after the online doctors, or video doctors, that we have seen pop up for the last two or three years. The Left Party accused them of all sorts of bad things. But an accusation shone with its absence, namely, over-profits. The Left Party did not accuse the net doctors of making excess profits or profits at all. Why don't they? Because the net doctors go with great loss. They are losing hundreds of millions, not because they run bad companies, but because they are building a new business. It is investors and lenders who take these losses to Kry, Mindokar.se, Doctor 24, Doctor.se and so on should be able to build up their businesses and later, hopefully, make profits. Of course, there is a great risk that they will never make a profit. It's a brand new business they're building up. The possibility that the company you have invested in will become one of the winners is quite small. If the possibility of making profits in the future does not exist at all or is a few tenths of turnover, very few, or rather none, will risk a few hundred million in order to achieve this. This development with net doctors has not taken place in the public domain, as the public has little tolerance for losses. The public does not invest hundreds of millions in such a development unless they are forced to do so precisely for reasons of competition. That is what we are seeing now when it comes to digital care. Entrepreneurs behind these companies have seen an opportunity to solve a problem in welfare, namely poor accessibility and long waiting times in healthcare. The article of the Left Party begins with something that could make any advertising agency beat its chest. You write: One click in your phone, and a few minutes later you have contact with a doctor who diagnoses and prescribes prescriptions. The reason why we today have the opportunity to get in touch with a doctor with one click of the phone is profit, or the possibility of profit. Without the possibility of making a profit, this would not have happened. Without the possibility of making a profit, these entrepreneurs, lenders and investors would never have risked years of losses. Of course, the net doctors are not different from other welfare companies. If you're going to start a school, you need a place to be. Almost never is that room adapted to be a school or fresh enough to be a school. You need money to renovate it. No one lends money to a renovation if the company will never be able to do anything but a minimal profit. Then you can't build a buffer for bad times. In this way, we cannot invest in innovation and the development of an activity which is at the outset loss-making but which, in the long term, can lead to better quality and greater efficiency, which is precisely a profit. That is why, I think, as I hear so much about the free schools being faster than the municipal schools in starting to use artificial intelligence as support in teaching. This can lead to higher quality and better efficiency, which can lead to higher profits. If someone can run a school with higher quality and lower costs, this is something we should reward, not ban. Of course, there are entrepreneurs who are trying to take a different path to profits, namely to reduce quality. Such things can pay off in a market with poor competition, poorly designed regulations and poor scrutiny by the media and politicians. We need a better regulatory framework in Sweden, which we have debated very recently and which we have proposed from the Alliance, but I think we are quite well on the other points. If it is the case that in an industry there are over-profits – how to define this exactly – it is often due to poorly functioning competition. However, in a functioning market with clear regulatory frameworks, clear scrutiny and transparency, over-profits or high profits increase the incentives for others to enter that industry. Incentives are increasing for other entrepreneurs to start up and operate better at lower cost. So profits are being squeezed down. Mr President, I would like to What, then, does the Left Party want to do when they cannot ban net doctors from making losses? They say that the county councils should be responsible for the development of digital care. This would be an effective way to significantly slow down the development of digital care in Sweden. We will allow freedom of choice for students, parents, patients, disabled people and others to remain in welfare. We will allow creativity, new approaches and entrepreneurship to remain in welfare. If we don't win, we'll slow this down. If we ban profits, we will lose those who dare to make losses to build something new. Mr President, I would like to Forbidden profit in welfare, loss in welfare is prohibited. It would be a great loss to welfare.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-520	Mr President, I would like to High quality in school, healthcare and care is a prerequisite for a cohesive Sweden where we can provide everyone with equal opportunities and support regardless of their background or place of residence. We all therefore have high ambitions for welfare. Swedish school, health care and care should be among the best in the world. That is why the debate and the desire for reform of Swedish welfare must be about how we can secure high-quality welfare and maintain freedom of choice. But another picture has faded forward in Sweden during the last term of office, a more problematic picture. I say we have a crisis in care for the elderly. More than 5 000 people have to wait more than three months from a positive decision until they have room for special accommodation. This figure is rising in the coming years, and municipalities would need all the help and support that can be mobilised to deliver to the needs. We have school operations where various results are reported. Some schools report very good results. Other schools should be focused on to help them achieve better results and quality. Freedom of choice has become natural. Students and parents use it to choose the school you think is best suited for the individual student. School activities where the competition incentive increases the quality of staff, pupils and parents' ability to influence. In this situation, the government is proposing a profit ceiling which de facto means that one in five retirement homes must be closed down in the long term and that almost 40% of the expected extension of care for the elderly, which has hitherto appeared to be private, should not occur. This decision would lead to a drastic increase in the deficit of places we have in care for the elderly. The government does not take the lack of space seriously. The profit ceiling proposed by the government will mean that the less independent schools will be allowed to close over time, as the possibility of buffering and security for students will not be guaranteed from an economic perspective. For me, the proposal to limit welfare gains is an attack on the functioning of our society as a whole. The state should go in and regulate how high the profits may be in a particular company. What can be the consequence in the long run? For which companies does the government feel obliged to regulate profits in the future? In principle, an incentive for quality development and choice is removed. This is for the Left Party to support the Social Democratic Government. Then it must do things that are worse for Sweden's older people and for the students. This must also be completely wrong for a social democrat. The government and the Left Party have a majority against them. You know that when you prepare the bill. Yet it is presented. They want welfare gains as a bat for the elections and turn their eyes away from the fact that welfare is in crisis and needs real reforms for the future. It would have been nice if the debate had instead been about the quality of school and care for the elderly, how we get more retirement homes or how we can cut queues in health care and increase accessibility in health care. The losers in this game are the elderly's care and about 340 000 students' school, which now finds itself in an uncertain position. The risk we take in this kind of debate is that 3 435 companies and economic associations will be uncertain about the future and will not feel the support of us here in this House. Corporate ownership is essentially about the right to influence and the possibility of receiving financial compensation through profit distribution. The possibility of a profit distribution creates incentives to develop the business towards high-quality services that others actually choose. There is no welfare company left unless there are those who choose it. The risks of starting up as an entrepreneur are high. Many do so despite the risks, but more and more are giving up because the rules of the game are tough and the conditions are constantly changing. We, as Christian Democrats, believe that entrepreneurship is good for competition, good for increased quality and quality development in care activities, and good for cost control. The alternative, to get the situation back that we only have municipal activities and no independent ones, would be to go back 50 years. Quality should be put first, we mean. With higher and better demands, we can maintain the wealth of ideas from all these entrepreneurs, while the profits cannot reach too high heights. In practice, a profit ceiling strangles this trend. It will be almost impossible to develop and invest in the activities. Many of the companies will disappear and users and pupils will be extradited to municipal facilities. We really don't want it that way. The proposal to set a ceiling of 7% of operational capital strikes with precision those whom we would like to see remain, that is to say those who have been employed in municipal activities but have an idea of working in other ways and perhaps have other ideas on how to increase quality. Those who are disadvantaged are these people, who want to take the step of becoming entrepreneurs but do not have any big money at the bank that allows them to buy a property or other. They have their knowledge, commitment and willingness to develop quality. Those who exist today will slowly disappear, as the buffer will slowly disappear. Those who manage with the Social Democrats' proposals are those who can buy real estate or otherwise increase operational capital. They can continue as before, but those whom we protect, the smaller entrepreneurs, who are mostly women, will be knocked out. The proposal is a slow death for welfare companies. This is a market with many female entrepreneurs and a market that feels very good from competition to increase quality and further develop activities. A funny equation that the government has done and which shows that it has done a thought-worship is that it is estimated that the billions you expect in excess profits could somehow strengthen municipal activities. The problem is that municipal activities are at the same or higher cost level than independent activities. This means that the addition will be zero SEK or a loss for the municipalities. Nevertheless, the activity must be carried out by someone else, and the cost is there anyway. The bottom line is that you should look forward instead of using a rhetoric I thought we left behind. Strengthen quality and find ways to better measure quality. Learn to make good procurements that focus on what we expect in quality rather than the sum of the last line being the most important. We as a party believe that we need welfare companies. They take risks, they create quality and they create competition. We are happy to protect the possibility of freedom of choice. We Christian Democrats support the committee's proposal and thus reject a profit cap.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-539	Madam President, I would like However, one problem has been that the bourgeoisie has dismissed all criticism of the school market as if it were a hidden attempt to restrict the individual's ability to choose a school. Even criticisms that have been justified as well as factual have been ignored. I believe that many leading politicians in the bourgeoisie have gone through the affairs of the school groups rather than working towards a school system as well as possible. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like These were not my words. These words were quotations from an article written by the Federal Chairman of the Moderate Youth League, a successor to Niklas Wykman and Ulf Kristersson. Madam President, I would like I have been politically active since 1993. When I became politically active, Speaker Urban Ahlin was a newly elected Member of Parliament who was considered talented. Not once in the years that I have been politically active have I experienced situations where moderate, liberal and Swedish-democratic voters have gone to Social Democrats to sign a political petition. But I've experienced that in the last few days and weeks when I've been out with name lists to get signatures to stop the profit hunt in welfare. People have come to me and told me that they voted for the Moderates in several elections but find it so difficult to understand the struggle to allow unlimited profit withdrawals from welfare. People have come forward and said that they may be thinking about voting for the Swedish Democrats but find it so difficult to understand that the Swedish Democrats as a party fail their own election promises and now defend the leak from Swedish welfare. It is strange that we have a situation in which a majority of bourgeois voters, a majority of the Swedish democratic voters, are fighting against their own parties and are demanding that the Swedish state regain control and ensure that we live up to the reasonable expectation that exists. It means that Swedish taxpayers' money is used for Swedish welfare and school and does not leave the welfare business. Why do bourgeois and Swedish democratic voters make that assessment? Why do they come into conflict with the parties with which they otherwise sympathise on other matters, Madam President? The answer can be found when traveling around the Nordic countries. I've been doing it over these years. I have met bourgeois ministerial colleagues in Denmark, Finland and Norway. I have asked them the question: my friends, you have a right-wing majority in your Parliament. You have the opportunity to push through a school reform in Denmark, Norway and Finland and do what Swedish bourgeoisie did here in the early 90s, to let the commercial profit interest in Norwegian, Danish and Finnish schools. Why don't you? The answer I have received, Madam President, makes me ashamed. The answer I have received on all occasions has been: We have seen how things have gone in Sweden. This is the background to why the Norwegian right-wing party Højre, the liberal conservative party in Denmark and the bourgeois parties in Finland are opposed to the pursuit of profit in the school systems. They've seen how things have gone in our country. Madam President, I would like We politicians have a duty to the citizens to continually evaluate the policies that have been pursued and, on a continuous, brutal basis, to adjust our own positions and to slaughter sacred cows. We have no right to pursue a policy of ideological blindings, but it is our duty to see the results of the policies pursued and see if things need to change. I have a few questions for the bourgeois friends who have participated in this debate and for the Swedish democrats who will now decide and continue to provide support for unlimited profit withdrawals from Swedish welfare. Has Swedish school improved since we let in professional actors in the early 90's? Have the results in Swedish schools improved? Has equality in Swedish schools improved after international venture capitalists entered and taken over a dominant position in the Swedish jointly funded school? Madam President, I would like I have visited many retirement homes in recent months. I've met a lot of nurses. There have been nurses working in the public sector and nurses working in private retirement homes. There is reason for this House, for the government and for Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils to carry out a self-critical analysis of how nurses have been treated in our country. Just look at the wage levels. When you have met the nurses and met the working conditions they have, regardless of whether it is public service or private direction we are talking about, it is completely incomprehensible that today there is a majority of the Swedish Democrats at the head defending a model where nurses earn an average of SEK 1 800 less per month if they happen to work in private homes and home care companies. That's $800 less! We can put an end to this. On Thursday we can have legislation in this House that limits the benefits of welfare on 1 January 2019. It creates legitimacy and popular support for the system we have in our welfare. It solves the ideological dispute that has existed in Swedish politics since the mid-80s. The responsibility is Parliament's. The government has left the proposal. Unlike Finland, Denmark and Norway and many countries on the European continent, we do not want to completely ban profit withdrawals from welfare and school. This is the order that applies in the rest of Europe. We're not going that far. We are prepared to have a system that allows a reasonable return on deposits, unlike in other countries. Is the Riksdag prepared to assume its responsibilities? Or has the Moderate Coalition Party, the Liberals, the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats decided to defend unlimited profit withdrawals from Swedish welfare? Then the voters' judgment will be harsh. Voters have no option not to pay taxes. This House is forcing voters, citizens and citizens of our country to pay taxes. Then it is reasonable for this House to ensure that taxpayers' money is also used for Swedish welfare – for what it is intended for. It is the Riksdag that has the ball on Thursday. I appeal to all Members of Parliament to assume their responsibilities and remember our obligations towards Swedish citizens and citizens of our country.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-555	Madam President, I would like We have heard a committed intervention from Ardalan Shekarabi. I would like to start by saying that it is good that the Government is here. When important and controversial issues are decided, it is valuable that the government, which puts forward the proposals, is present and participates in the debate. Of course, anything else would be irresponsible. It is perhaps particularly good given that the government, what it seems, will lose its vote after a rather poorly managed process that is also very politicised in an ideological way – far from the reality where teachers, students and others are. Ardalan Shekarabi has a high tone. It sounds almost like the theatre, you might say. But it may not be so well known in the grey and pragmatic everyday life where most people are. It is well known to most that the municipalisation of the school carried out by Göran Persson has not been good for the equivalence that Ardalan Shekarabi demands. It has been evaluated and clearly demonstrated that this is the case. Sure, you can certainly treat the Swedish people as if they were children and try to mix away the cards, fine and so on. But it won't be good. You lose legitimacy, and democracy gets hurt. If it is the case that the Conservatives are in line instead to vote for the Social Democrats, then that is the case, and then we will see how the elections are progressing. I think that political leadership and gaining people's trust is about not being a populist but daring to stand for something that can also be difficult sometimes when it's not so easy. Therefore, I wonder: Will you accept Parliament's decision and put it down now and move on?
i-74ae51410f0d616e-561	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Niklas Wykman, for the question! I'm accused of being a populist. I would like to remind you that I was deeply involved in the issue of regional reform in Sweden during this parliamentary term. Much can be said, but it is hardly populist to pursue such structural reforms. And it went as it went with that question. I would like to remind Niklas Wykman that, two years ago, the Moderate National Party announced to the Swedish people that it proposed a system that would impose a profit ban on schools that were failing because it saw a link between profit and quality. It was a play that was handled by the former moderate party leader Anna Kinberg Batra. Several articles were written in which the Moderates acknowledged that school and welfare cannot function as a market. I would also like to remind Niklas Wykman that Anders Borg and several other moderate and bourgeois ministers in the previous government in the run-up to the previous elections, 2014, said: In Swedish welfare there should not be venture capitalists. Was it an election promise? Was it a rhetorical grip after the Caremaskan Valley or the JB bankruptcy? Or was it an honest statement that it is still a little strange that Sweden, as the only country in the West, lets commercial actors in? And these are not just commercial operators, Madam President, but high-yield operators? Is it not reasonable to note now, after several decades, that we had a market-liberal experiment but that it did not work? It didn't really turn out the way we expected. You do not have to be left, and you do not have to be a socialist in order to oppose a leak from the jointly funded welfare.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-566	Madam President, I would like Ardalan Shekarabi delivers again a bunch of onelins, attacks and incorrect or possibly clipped quotes that have nothing to do with it. He argues as if he wanted to throw corporations and profit interests out of welfare. But he doesn't want that at all! On the contrary, Ardalan Shekarabi argues that it is important to retain profit interests, international groups and venture capitalists. It even says in the proposal that Ardalan Shekarabi has put on the table and perhaps even read for himself, let us assume. It will be very strange for the Swedish people to be treated in this way – low-skilled, unintelligent, uninitiated and populistic. If it were so popular to treat the Swedish people, it should rush in public opinion for the parties that do so, such as Ardalan Shekarabis's own party. But that is not the case, because politics is about standing up for things that are difficult. At home at the kitchen table and when you have your choice, you can certainly hope to be able to eat the chip bag without gaining weight. You could wish that were the case. But people are telling us as representatives of the people to see the whole picture. If you want choice and choice, if you want to solve problems and if you want to cope with demography and so on, there is also a need for entrepreneurship. Enterprise has a profit. You can choose to say: I just want one of these. I just want the upside, and I never want to take responsibility for the bottom. I am such a politician who says what is popular. But even this is what people see through in the end, and now they have seen through this and judge from it. They judge from the whole and not just from what sounds best. I repeat my question: can Ardalan Shekarabi now consider closing this? The proposal will be lost in Parliament. Can we then have a real welfare discussion, for example about the care queues you have caused?
i-74ae51410f0d616e-572	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question again, Niklas Wykman! We are not going to shut this down. The Swedish people expect us to continue to fight the profit hunt in Swedish welfare – because they pay taxes, Madam President. They pay high taxes in Sweden. This high tax is supposed to go to hiring more nurses and more teachers. It is supposed to go to improving the quality of welfare. We do not have the right to tax our population in order to allow profit payments to owners of publicly funded welfare. It is over-taxation, Madam President, and as far as I know, a liberal conservative politician should oppose over-taxation of the people. What people do with their private money and their private capital I do not interfere with. Now we are talking about tax money, which we are forced to take in to fund care for the elderly. We can see that in 2015 we had a leakage of at least SEK 4.7 billion. That is 10 000 nurses, Madam President. During these years, when I have visited many retirement homes, I have never met a nurse who rejects another colleague. If we are to improve the quality of care for the elderly, we must increase staffing. Then it is a reasonable start to ensure that taxpayers' money is spent on hiring nurses. This is not an extreme position. It is the current Swedish legislation that is extreme. It is this legislation that stands out in comparison with that of all other countries. Madam President, I would like Bourgeois politicians in Denmark, Norway and Finland are not against freedom of choice. They deliver freedom of choice. It is perfectly possible to combine choice with order in welfare and rules on how taxpayers' money should be spent.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-579	Madam President, I would like Ardalan Shekarabi recalled some of his previous processes that have landed in nothing. This is another example. Instead, this could have been a term of office when we tried to agree on a number of points on how to strengthen both quality and choice in welfare. But it is quite simply up to the next government to take the initiatives that should have been taken now. Maybe you're being pressured when you're facing a defeat. Maybe that's why it's a loud tone. Perhaps that's why my point that I made here in the speaker's chair – it was about the fact that schools sometimes disappear very quickly and that it's a problem and that in such cases we have to consider it as a problem no matter who it is who closes a school at short notice – interpreted by Ardalan Shekarabi on Twitter as having said that it's not a problem. I guess that's what you do when your pulse's high. To reinforce my point, I'm going to ask Ardalan Shekarabi the same question that I asked Ulla Andersson but I didn't get an answer to. This is a good symbol of the issue we are actually talking about, because if you think it is a problem, as I think we both do, that schools sometimes disappear at short notice and that there is no long-term perspective, then is it not a problem no matter who stands for this short-termness? I did not hear an upset tone in Ardalan Shekarabi when his social democratic colleagues in Nordmaling closed down a number of village schools over Christmas holidays. Is it a problem, Ardalan Shekarabi, that schools are sometimes short-sighted? And in such cases: Should we not find a solution that applies to all schools and all students regardless of their principal?
i-74ae51410f0d616e-582	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Emil Källström, for the question and for the debates during the last 24 hours! Of course, it is a problem if there is no continuity in school. That is why we have started work on the development of public sector governance. Within a few weeks, we will have the report on trust-based school governance, not least. We will have to work much more with continuity and trust in the professions, the teachers. I would like to remind Emil Källström that the bankruptcy we were talking about, the JB bankruptcy, was preceded by large-scale profit payments. The reason JB could not be pushed forward was that the owner took out money – not his own money, but taxpayers' money. It is perfectly legal to take tax money that would have gone to school activities, higher salaries for staff and more teachers and distribute it in profit. This is the only country in the world, as I know, Madam President, where it is legal to do so. Some of these companies even boast that they are taking this money to invest in schools and preschools in Norway and Saudi Arabia. As I know, Madam President, it is not the duty of Swedish citizens to finance investments in preschools and schools in Norway and Saudi Arabia. We have enough challenges in Sweden. We have enough to do with strengthening welfare. When you meet the nurses who testify to the understaffing in care for the elderly, you are reminded that we need to do so much, both privately and publicly, to give them an honest chance to give our elderly good quality. A start is to make sure that we have some rules on how to use the tax money so that we get a higher staffing. I looked at one of the groups in the elderly care business yesterday. They made a profit of over SEK 600 million last year. Is it not reasonable that there are rules for this 600 million to be reinvested in the business?
i-74ae51410f0d616e-586	Madam President, I would like Ardalan Shekarabi has not only forgotten to wear a tie today, but he also forgot to answer my question. This is a good symbol of what this debate is about. If we agree that there is a problem with the short-term nature of schools – perhaps the principal should have to guarantee a certain degree of continuity and long-termness – then my answer is: let's see if we can agree on rules that lead to that very thing, that is, long-term and continuity and that they apply equally regardless of the principal. Ardalan Shekarabis solution is to sit and fiddle and regulate in the profit and loss account and hope that it leads to what he says it will lead to. But it's going wrong. We're going to steer towards what we want. We're going to steer towards quality. We will steer towards innovation and long-termism. We will steer towards what we want directly and not take the detour through completely new innovations when it comes to detailed regulation of profit and loss accounts for different categories of companies. This is a term of office when we could have sat down and agreed on this. It would have been a way forward, and that would have meant that we now had rules in place that would have affected the welfare actors here today. It was one of the government's options. The second was to embark on a doomed political process that we already knew in advance would lead into a concrete wall and end up in a stomach pane. That is what we are now facing. Like a car accident, this is not something you want to see, but it is difficult to keep your eyes off when it happens. We must move on from this political game. We need to focus on those issues where there are ways forward and where something is actually happening. The Swedish people are tired of this discussion. Now we want results. Let's get there.
i-FfQ5mMHgMqSXCUHn59trC2	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Emil Källström! I am inclined to agree that the Swedish people are tired of this debate. It is time that we actually put our foot down and put in place a regulatory framework for the use of resources. The first time this debate started was in the mid-1990s, and then the issue has been debated and debated. In the face of every election, when scandals have come up, bourgeois and social democrat politicians have said: This is a problem. We must do something, because we should not have short-termism and venture capitalists in our welfare. On Thursday it is the first time that Parliament has taken a position on a legislative proposal. It is possible to resolve this issue, and we have a solution in place on 1 January. Emil Källström talks about the need for regulations and that we should sit down and talk about rules for long-term sustainability and financial stability. Then, unfortunately, I must be a death of joy and tell Emil Källström that the Riksdag has just found a majority in favour of such a regulatory framework with ownership and management testing. This means that for the first time we will have control over which owners are present in the welfare system. It is, of course, a minimum requirement that must be imposed on the state. The state must be in control. We cannot allow criminals and other types of inappropriate actors to enter welfare. We must demand, for example, financial stability. That is why we will have legislation in place on ownership and management testing. I regret that the Center Party is out of this legislation and does not support it. It is strange that the Center Party, together with the Swedish Democrats, chooses to take an extremely extreme position which gives the result that criminal actors can establish themselves within Swedish welfare. It is not acceptable that we currently have a regulatory framework that actually allows criminals to establish themselves in welfare. It is perfectly legal for criminals to get into welfare and access public funds with current legislation. That should not be the case, and thank God there is a majority in parliament for a change. It is nevertheless a good start, but we also need rules on how resources are to be used.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-591	Madam President, I would like Has Swedish school improved? That was the question of Minister Shekarabi, alluding to this whole debate. As far as I am aware, the Government is fairly highly educated and should reasonably be able to understand the difference between correlation and causality. Correlation does not implicate causality. The state we have in the Swedish school has quite different explanations, not least the misrule by the Social Democrats. A minority of the entire electorate supports this proposal. The majority of the electorate is generally opposed to the government's proposal. Our constituents are on our own side – I am not at all worried about this. When you ask the question about what we have been talking about for a few hours now, a little more nuanced and put it this way: Is it the most important thing to limit profits or is it the most important to maintain freedom of choice? responds a majority of the sympathizers of all parties – the Communist Party except because they ignore quality and just want to get rid of everything that is private – i.e. both the sympathizers of the Swedish Democrats and the Social Democrats, that it is most important to retain freedom of choice. That's it. We have 340 000 children and young people who will not have a school to attend in case the government gets through this. If we look ahead, there will be 400 000 more young people in the ages of 0 to 19 in ten years' time. There are more than twice as many women as men who run companies in the welfare sector. If you ask the teachers who work in independent schools, a majority of them say that they do not want to go back to the municipal school. So I have two questions: how will the municipalities manage this in ten years' time, with 400 000 more young people, if you start to phase out the welfare that the government wants? And – seriously – what do the Social Democrats have against female entrepreneurs and female entrepreneurship? I don't understand it.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-595	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Oscar Sjöstedt for the question. Oscar Sjöstedt's assumption that all these companies would disappear from the welfare business if there were a limitation of profits corresponding to the returns in the other services sector testifies to a rather frightening picture. If these companies are in welfare to make more money than the rest of the service sector, we definitely have the wrong type of owner in welfare. My picture is it's not always like that. We have lots of companies that behave and that have as a general rule that they reinvest the surplus in the business. But there are also those who are looking for big money, who make big money and who get large sums of money from Swedish welfare. Is it reasonable for us to put an end to unlimited profit withdrawals and to have some kind of reasonable limitation on profits in welfare? Yes, the Swedish people think so. The Swedish people have felt that for a very long time. One might also think that it is a reasonable position for this House. As regards causality and school development, we can take part in international research. If you are unable to read all the research reports, the OECD has helped us by compiling the research that has been done and that has analysed Swedish school development. Based on this compilation, one can definitely conclude that the commercialisation of Swedish schools has affected school results. Above all, the commercialisation of Swedish schools has affected the profession. And if we are to achieve the knowledge goals in the Swedish school, we must recognise professional autonomy for the teachers and move away from the attack on Swedish teachers that has been going on in recent decades. We must recognise that teachers must be given greater room for manoeuvre. Then we must have more trust-based governance. And there is a conflict between more trust-based governance and commercial ownership that has great profits as its goal.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-602	Madam President, I would like As far as commercialisation is concerned, I say: absolutely. What I think the Swedish school is still suffering from is the municipalisation of the school. It was a little ahead of my time really. But we should address that problem. Unfortunately, we do not yet have support for this in this House, but some parties may change their minds on this issue. As far as reasonable returns are concerned, you have in practice put forward a proposal, Ardalan Shekarabi, which sets a reasonable return at 0%. That effect will have this proposal in practice, because you have made such a strange proposal. When you talk about profits, it's normal to talk about operating margin. The normal thing is to put it in relation to turnover. But you have used a concept that almost no one uses when you talk about things like this: operational capital. However, operating capital in the service sector is very low, because there are no heavy and expensive equipment. What you have that's valuable is staff. And the operational capital of the staff is recorded as zero. In practice, the bill is a profit ban. The reasonable return is set at 0 percent. It is clear that no entrepreneur wants to invest time, energy and money if a minister says that the reasonable return you can expect is 0 percent or perhaps 0.2 percent. It is quite complex matter, but if we boil it down, the effect of your proposal is that the private elements disappear and you get a public monopoly. We prefer choice. It has its own value. If you are disappointed with the municipal-run retirement home or the municipal school, you can opt them out. It's not just about the students and the older ones. The same applies to employees. A majority of them think it is important that there are several employers to choose from.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-608	Madam President, I would like First of all, I must inform Oscar Sjöstedt that the proposal is not 0 % in return, but it is 7 %, plus the government loan rate on deposits. This corresponds to the yield in the other services sector. That's why the investigator and later the government have chosen this arrangement. Long before I became a minister, I looked at this and wrote a report on ways to limit the profits of publicly funded welfare. If you choose a different model and use turnover, you would admit that you should have a model where you simply accept that, for example, one in ten krona disappears from the business. Why should we have such a rule? The objective in this House must be to use every tax chandelier for what it is intended for. That must be the reasonable expectation of this congregation. Everything else is a loss to the taxpayer. If it is in that way that we have 4.7 billion that we can give up, we should have a debate if we are going to reduce the tax by 4.7 billion or use the 4.7 billion to something else, for example, to raise pensions or increase staffing in the care of the elderly. But now let's admit it's perfectly okay to accept that taxpayers' money is leaving the business. Why should we do that? We need to protect taxpayers' money. The Swedish Democrats are very clear in other policy areas, but it is important that taxpayers' money is used properly. Then it becomes strange that in this particular area it is perfectly okay to have a huge leakage, in addition to tax havens – which we have read about – or to invest in schools in Saudi Arabia or Norway. Swedish exports are good. But it is also a good thing that companies are responsible for these investments with their own resources and not with taxpayers' money.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-614	Madam President, I would like I met a welfare entrepreneur from Varberg and took the opportunity to ask her what she would like to say to the Minister if she was standing here. I'm going to read it out, right and up. She writes: We do a high-quality care for the elderly. And we do it with employees who love working in a private company. With us, each customer receives a tailor-made home service, and the staff can feel that they have the right conditions. We have just had a follow-up with us by the municipal officials. They said they didn't find anything to object to at all. This is what I fight for every day. I do not think that a politician, who has turned this issue into something that it is not, should be allowed to tell me or anyone else that what we do does not matter. The fact that we run our businesses just to get rich is so wrong. The fact that well-managed companies that make profits, so that staff and customers can feel secure, cannot remain in today's Sweden is unacceptable. It is our customers who choose us, and we live on only because our customers are satisfied. Madam President, I would like My question to Ardalan Shekarabi is: Why do you want to strangle the opportunity for a company, like this in Varberg, to work in Sweden? That is what you are doing with your proposal.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-620	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Larry Söder for this question. It is important that it be answered. I have nothing against the existence of private actors in public welfare activities. If this proposal were to go through, we would still have the most market-liberal school system in Europe, in other words, with the proposal known as the Reepalus proposal. We have chosen a pragmatic line and said: Okay, there should be commercial actors in the welfare. However, there must be a reasonable limitation of the possibilities of making profits, so that, as a general rule, we ensure that taxpayers' money is reinvested in the business in the event of surpluses. If the entrepreneur Larry Söder has talked to has invested her own funds and built up a business, she should also be entitled to a reasonable return. And it should be a yield equivalent to that of the other services. Nevertheless, it is reasonable for us to discuss this openly. One could represent another line and say that Sweden should do like Norway, Finland, Denmark or all other European countries and introduce a ban on profit payments from the school, for example. We have chosen not to propose such a thing, because we are a pragmatic government based on today's reality and who would like to see a variety of different actors in public activities. But we also listen to the will of the people to ensure that tax money is used properly. Given the major challenges and understaffing that we have in Swedish welfare, it is reasonable that we also have better rules for how resources should be used, so that we get more teachers and nurses. Remember, too, that nurses in the private sector generally have worse conditions. Rules are therefore also needed to ensure that these conditions are improved.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-626	Madam President, I would like The situation of a welfare entrepreneur – just like the one I met – is that they normally do not have operational capital in their company. With your proposal, that means they're going with zero crowns in profit. It is the operating profit that is the figure at the bottom. To this you should pay a tax and you should also be able to make an investment in the company in one way or another. That is why I claim that this means a slow death for the welfare companies that look just like the company I'm talking about. There is no way to build a buffer and offer security to the staff. A company in this situation may have 20 to 30 employees who want the security to have a job to go to in a year's time and that the company survives. But your proposal actually means pulling their legs away from them. That's what worries me. You can say that you want to keep welfare companies and small companies, but that is exactly the opposite. Your proposal means that the large welfare companies with many different units and with a large operational capital will survive while the small ones will be knocked out. I find that unfortunate. That is why we are opposed to your proposal. We agreed to the proposal that we discussed earlier because we think there is a need for a little more control. But this is completely up the walls, if we want the welfare companies to stay.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-630	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Larry Söder, for the question! It may be that the Christian Democrats have misunderstood the whole arrangement. We have chosen to adjust the proposal from the investigation in order to ensure that all companies, regardless of how little operational capital they have, will be entitled to a certain surplus in order to build up a buffer. We have referred such a proposal and we have said that we will come back with such a legislative proposal in order for that law to enter into force at the same time as the legislative proposal under discussion at the moment. Of course, we must take into account the conditions imposed by the smallest companies. We must always ensure that the welfare regulatory framework embraces diversity, which the current regulatory framework does not do because we have a situation where some groups take over basically the entire school market and the elderly care market. That must not be the case. That is why we have adjusted the proposal. Finally, I would like to thank the Christian Democrats and other parties who, despite the conflicts that we have in this matter, have worked constructively to at least take a few steps during this parliamentary term in order to bring order to the welfare and, above all, to create better conditions for the ideas-driven actors. They are not heard very often in the debate. They do not have millions invested in lobbying, but they do represent important values in welfare. With the decision that will be taken on Thursday, the ideas-driven actors will have a little better conditions. It also means increasing the diversity and quality of welfare. There we agree, and there we will continue to work together.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-634	Madam President, I would like I'm sorry to extend the debate, but I got so nostalgic when Ardalan Shekarabi talked about when he entered politics and that he has now gone around with lists of the city and got some bourgeois voters to sign. It made me think about when I myself a little later than Shekarabi entered politics. Then we also went around with name lists, it was in Norrköping, and there were many, especially Social Democrats, who signed these lists. The social democrats in the county council were planning to close the emergency room in Norrköping. Then the Social Democrats in Norrköping and in the rest of Östergötland signed the lists against this stupid and short-term proposal. Emil Källström said several times that stupid and short-term decisions can be made by private companies but also by politicians, by Social Democrats, by Moderates and also, of course, by one or another liberal, even if it is exceptional. But I hear nothing from either Ardalan Shekarabi or Ulla Andersson that bad short-term decisions in the municipal and public sector should be dealt with in exactly the same way as private companies. You're supposed to raise the quality floor. In the previous case, we proposed raising the quality floor both for private companies and for municipal operators. Why this focus only on private companies? Why not also on the municipal doers?
i-No6AmD4pUntMGGSoTjnm25	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mathias Sundin, for the question! We are talking about the private actors in welfare, because this debate concerns a bill on the legislation for private operators in welfare. We have had other debates in this House that have been about, among other things, the Local Government Act. It has concerned the legislation for our municipalities and county councils. Of course, we will work on the issues relating to the entities and activities carried out in our own right, but the legislation that we have to deal with concerns private actors. These activities are governed by different principles. In municipal activities, there are a number of principles laid down in the Local Government Act. This applies, for example, to the ban on benefiting individual operators, but these principles do not apply to private operators. Therefore, there is a difference in regulation that makes the question of welfare gains relevant. That is also why we are having this debate at all. If it has not been heard that the Government has an interest in ensuring that municipal activities also develop and that resources are used effectively in municipal activities, I apologise. Then we must speak much louder about New Karolinska and about what we are looking at about that procurement. This is a very interesting case, not least given that it is one of the few examples of OPS solutions in Sweden. Then we can analyse and evaluate this OPS solution and see if we can use more such solutions in connection with investments in health care or if we have reason to believe that this particular approach in this particular procurement has damaged the reputation of Swedish administration and also wasted taxpayers' money.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-642	Madam President, I would like I would like to pay tribute to Ardalan Shekarabi because he managed to include New Karolinska in this. If you shake the life of a social democrat, regardless of the time of day, the first thing he says is: New Karolinska. It's not bad. But that's not really what I meant, and I think Ardalan Shekarabi understood that. The fact that we are talking about private companies today is, of course, because you have put forward such a proposal. The question is why you do not put forward proposals that deal with subterfuge within the municipal, public and private sectors. Madam President, I would like I'd like to satisfy another curiosity that I have. I am from Norrköping and there are many sensible Social Democrats who we have ruled during the last parliamentary term together with under the leadership of Lars Stjernkvist. After all, he is one of those who oppose this proposal. In the general debate on your proposal for various forms of profit bans and restrictions, it has been said that this is really only a concession to the Left Party. It has also been mentioned here in the debate today. But at some point you have to realize that it is not that way. One cannot only believe that political parties are doing something for reasons of power policy, although it can of course play a role. But you believe this and think it is a perfectly reasonable policy that these companies should not exist in welfare. You're saying something else here, but the Left Party had never agreed to a proposal that means it's rolling on just like it is now. My curiosity is as follows: What does this v widowgy come from? I agree that it is not a power political concession to the Left Party, but an ideological view. Where does it come from?
i-74ae51410f0d616e-646	Madam President, I would like Mathias Sundin is right, of course, that we should not discuss building a house in Solna, but we should discuss the regulations for private operators. It is interesting that Mathias Sundin calls this proposal and the government's approach a kind of left-wing twist, given that these are principles supported by between 70 and 80 per cent of the Swedish population. These are principles defended by the Liberal sister parties in all Nordic countries. They go far beyond what this proposal does in terms of school profits. If Mathias Sundin makes the assessment that liberals, conservative forces and right-wing populist forces in other Nordic countries are some kind of hidden socialists with a hidden left-wing agenda, it may be worth evaluating this issue in political science research. Nevertheless, I would like to insist that this is a proposal which corresponds to the approach of all other countries in the world, at least in the field of education. We are the exception and, as I said, it would have been a fantastic trip within the school after this experiment was introduced, then perhaps we would have had no reason to stand here and debate. But there are demonstrably some challenges in school. We also see a lot of negative consequences of commercialisation – most recently it was about grade inflation. Then it is reasonable to discuss how we can ensure a limitation of the negative consequences of the profit incentive in Swedish welfare and school.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-651	Madam President, I would like This year it is 100 years since the Swedish Parliament clubbed through the introduction of universal and equal voting rights. Democracy was introduced in our country after the right after decades gave up their resistance. We got a new time and another agenda. Democracy was gradually expanding. What was previously reserved for the few was now conquered by the welfare of the many. It was democracy that brought this about. The market was unable. So we conquered social assurances that provided security in the inevitable events of life. Thus was conquered a common society, not only reserved for the few, but also the many. The old parallel with the best possibility for the biggest wallet melted down. The common with good quality and with everyone involved became something huge. The development of welfare has given people in our country enormous freedom. Just look at all the children who today follow a parent to preschool and are attracted to stimulation, joy and care while the parents are safe in their workplaces! Look at the school where talent is not held back by money, but stimulated! Look at the care where it's the cream, not the credit card, that determines! Look at the warmth of the elderly care that covers everyone! It meant great democratic progress when we built this together with solidarity financing. The distribution was tested as needed, not title, wallet or provenance. We created, Madam President, in the real and real sense of the word, a social democracy in our country. During the 1980s, an extremely neoliberal policy was pursued worldwide. The guiding principles were privatising, and in the run-up to the market, and making citizens customers, and, are implementing contemporary tax cuts. Leading representatives of neoliberalism, as Thatcher said: There is no society. It's just you, you and you. We're individuals. Reagan said: It is not the government that is the solution but the problem. Politics and democracy were a problem. The common thing deteriorated. There was fierce propaganda for so-called alternative – that is, private capitalist – interests' access to the common. Madam President, I would like I believe that today's debate is about the vision of democracy, about society and citizens, or about the market and customers. Not everyone in the bourgeoisie, but a hard neo-liberal core has a plan of invasion. First, you have to introduce a school grant. Then comes an old money. You want to turn the citizen into a customer. It then introduces a market with private operators. The next step is to add your own resources to improve quality. It could be Silver Life or something else. Once again, it's the wallet, not the need, to decide. Democracy is being emptied of its content, and many people are being left out. We're establishing a new class society. Madam President, I would like The government bill and the reservations of the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party are not about taking out alternatives. The profit constraint reduces the interest of venture capital and multinationals. The proposed level of profit limitation is such that many subcontractors in our country would exult if they could win such a profit. Madam President, I would like I'm in favour of the reservation. I would argue that this week we are taking a decision on the scope and content of democracy. Everyone in our country has the right to the best welfare.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-660	Madam President, I would like We are not consumers in relation to welfare, we are citizens. This is at the heart of the very important and sometimes rather clarifying debate that we are having today. What should we be in relation to welfare? Are we to be consumers, whose demands are limited by economic purchasing power and social position, and who, at best, are allowed to starve on an already decorated display window? Or should we be citizens with rights and responsibilities and with the assurance that we can get the best available help based on our needs and, not least, with the ability to influence the supply itself? We are not consumers in relation to welfare, we are citizens. This sentence begins the agreement between the Left Party, the Social Democrats and the Green Party, which on the initiative of the Left Party was concluded shortly after the 2014 elections. That agreement has been the prerequisite for budgetary cooperation between the Left Party and the government. It has also been the platform for the extensive investigative work and political craft that has led to a bill that will make the jointly funded welfare of our country better and stronger by eliminating the pursuit of profit as a driving force in its activities. Madam President, I would like The jointly funded welfare, which at best enables us to offer each other the best we can at the moment in our society, has very strong support in our country. It's no wonder. This is not just about a magnificent and warming thought, but about something concrete and very everyday. We have all experienced the importance of welfare when we have left our most precious to preschool, when we are suddenly forced to go to the emergency room after a vurpa or when an old parent has received his daily help in a retirement home. We also know what it means when that welfare works badly for one reason or another. But the fact that we can actually have access to preschool, school, care for the elderly, social services, primary care and emergency care, especially support for disability with more free or at a low cost understands most of us make life safer and richer. That is why the support for it also goes far into the bourgeois electorate. Of course, the representatives of the right-wing parties in the Riksdag know this. They know that when they cry out hoarse and blue on behalf of the few capital owners who want to continue to put the straws in the welfare billions, they hardly even represent their own electorates. That is why they are trying to mix the cards away by talking about anything but the core issue: Should we be citizens in relation to welfare or only consumers? At the Swedish Democrats, that becomes even more embarrassingly clear. Here we have a party that even promised its voters to do the opposite. They pretended to be involved, if necessary, in stopping the money-swolling from welfare to venture capitalists. But then it became more fun to be offered fine cognac by the businesslobbyists and more important to make their economic policy appetizing to the Moderates. For those of us who have known all along that the Swedish Democrats are a right-wing party with fascist roots, this pirouette is no surprise. For some SD voters, it is still said to be, hence the remarkable breast tones of SD representative here today. But let us leave for a moment the parliamentary gambling activity that the right-wing parties are engaged in and return to the core political issue, that is, how best to organise the welfare that most people claim to safeguard. The common welfare has emerged through the labors of many people. At most steps it has been opposed by reactionary forces on the right. However, the guiding principles behind welfare not only have support in broad layers of the population, but these principles have also been lowered in the laws that govern welfare activities. There are laws that also apply today but that in practice the hunting of profits puts the hookbones in place. For example, the Health Act states that the goal of health care is good health and care on equal terms for the entire population. [...] Anyone with the greatest need for healthcare should be given priority to care. ..................................................... This is therefore not a party programme but a law, passed by the Swedish Parliament. The Social Services Act states that the social services of society must promote, on the basis of democracy and solidarity, people's economic and social security and equality in living conditions. ..................................................... In the school law, it says, among other things, this: aspiration should be to compensate for differences in the children's and students' ability to assimilate the education. ..................................................... This is something completely different from what governs commercial trade in a market – and that's the point! The unheard-of important question that the 850-page Reepalus investigation has supported and wet is whether it will be easier or more difficult to comply with these laws if there are welfare actors who put the profit motive first and who have the right to make any over-profits of the funds to go to welfare activities. And it's so obvious that it's getting harder. The obvious thing for a responsible political leadership in the service of the people and welfare must then be how we change this which was so wrong. That is what this bill is basically about, and that is what the representatives of the Right are dismissing and obstrusing in this debate. Madam President, I would like It is well established, both in the preparation process for this bill and in other reports, that the profit motive affects the possibility of equivalence and to needs management in welfare, in conflict with what is expressed in the laws governing the operations. Instead, we hear from profit defenders about innovation and dynamism. And enough, innovative things are being done to secure the profits. We have school groups that make sure to replace students with working backgrounds or with the need for language support with students who, thanks to their parents' background and social position, have less need for help. It's called freedom of choice. It's not. But it's lucrative. We also know more and more clearly how privately owned schools set so-called joy certificates, grades that do not reflect students' level of knowledge. Why? Because it is an important part of marketing and therefore an important part of being able to gain profit. The fact that this in a well-documented and very far-reaching way leads to the opposite of making up for differences in the situation of children and students is not a matter for these companies. But that is something for which we must take responsibility in this Chamber. We see the same in the area by area of welfare. When private health centres establish themselves where the population is at its best or prefer more visits by patients with easier conditions than longer visits by patients with complex problems, then it is of course not something that promotes good health and care on equal terms for the entire population. Of course, this leads to a certain kind of innovation, but hardly one who has support in the population, who pays taxes to welfare services. The profit drive goes out over the organization of welfare, and it also goes out on those who make the welfare, that is, the staff. It is in the private sector that we find less staff density, less qualified and trained staff and more insecure jobs. Everywhere in Swedish welfare there are people who are working hard for us to get a functioning elderly care, preschool and healthcare, regardless of their form of ownership of course. But in commercial operation, these people, in addition to this, will also scrape together profits to the owners. Of course it affects the conditions. Of course, profit also affects municipal operations. In this debate we have heard anecdotal evidence from the right: Here is a thing that works badly in the municipality! Of course, there are a lot of things that work better and worse everywhere, but that's the point: It's the whole system that is being put to the test. Schools that do not give a job or do not spend resources on attractive advertising risk getting too few pupils and losing school money. The retirement homes where the staff have more secure jobs and take more time for the residents risk being painted as ineffective in the struggle for pressured municipal budgets. It is very unclear how it would have worked better in all these examples of municipalities where things could have gotten better if Academedia had received an additional few hundred million or a billion out of the same pot. Madam President, I would like This isn't how we're supposed to be. This is not the way to treat the price of welfare. Decennials of neoliberal market experiments in welfare must begin to roll back in order for staff to do their job and for us citizens to be able to rely on the jointly funded school, elderly care, health care and LSS operations. This bill offers a model, carefully thought out and well worked out, to sift out the activities in some of the welfare areas where owners put commercial returns and over-profits first. It is a model that provides greater scope for non-profit activities that are now being pressured by the commercial ones – a change that would ensure that as much as possible of the money devoted to welfare also goes to welfare. Now we have put this bill on the table of the Riksdag, and it is up to the representatives of the right-wing parties to explain why they prefer welfare money to go to venture capitalists rather than to staff and activities in welfare. So far, they have certainly not succeeded so well. If, at the time of the vote on Thursday, they were to betray the welfare and condemn the proposal, it is at least a promise from us in the Left Party that this will be an important issue in the electoral movement. Then you who want to keep the straws down in the treasury for the commercial groups will have to explain, even outside this hall, to those who need the welfare and to those who create the welfare. Good luck!
i-74ae51410f0d616e-687	Madam President, I would like From the right, there is a great deal of complaint about public welfare. It is blacked out daily, and it is being worked, at least I think, clearly in undermining the credibility of the public. It's crystal clear. It happens hand in hand with the business community and with Peje Emilsson as the main guru, the Peje Emilsson who will invest in building exclusive retirement homes with a golden edge for wealthy people – Silver Life with all inclusive for some who pay services. The foundation, however, is the municipality's old-age money, i.e. our tax money. This is how the well-known visions and innovations appear from the welfare companies: both for those who are in the best position. You can go in there and watch this online. It's not something I'm making up, it's real life- Silver Life. The Swedish democrats, who I see have moved out of the hall, were against profits in welfare during the 2014 elections. I guess it is precisely Mr Emilsson who has fixed and trixed so that the Swedish Democrats are now sitting in the business community's nice sofa with the other right parties. The healthcare company Attendo has more than doubled its profits for 2016. Attendo is Sweden's largest private welfare company and made a profit of SEK 649 million in 2016. The rich became even richer when the listed Attendo distributed nearly $200 million to its owners. Five executives in Group Management are said to have cashed in SEK 40 million. That's the way it's done. It's profitable to live off our tax dollars. You think it's okay for the private companies to make this huge profit in the care of the elderly. The return on equity in private care companies is 41 per cent, compared with 11.6 per cent in the banks. It's extremely profitable. We could have used that money to develop the retirement homes and the staffing efforts that are so extremely necessary. In February 2017, researchers at the Department of Social Work at Stockholm University published a new report on working conditions for the elderly. They have been measured between 2005 and 2015, which coincides with bourgeois government ownership. The study is based on questionnaire responses from a great many – 1,200 nurses – and compared Swedish elderly care with elderly care in Denmark, Finland and Norway. The report shows extremely significant changes in Swedish care for the elderly. The number of helpers that a home worker meets during a working day has increased significantly. The room for manoeuvre of staff has been reduced. You experience your work as much more psychologically and physically heavy and also much more time-pressed. This has happened during the period when, so to speak, it has been a boost in opening up private care for the elderly. That's it. Stockholm County Council is still the window, so to speak, but it may not be anyone who wants to look into it anymore. However, Stockholm Municipality was also one of the right's large store windows, and in Stockholm there were 135 private performers to choose from in 2014. You can see the freedom of choice of all the elderly! There were also 25 municipal home care units. It was a big catalog for the older ones to browse. Many of the companies chose to name something on A, for it was thought that older people and relatives might not be able to read through the whole catalogue. They called something on A, Aa or Aaa. It is for real; it can be seen by the viewer in the directory. The catalogue is now scrapped, because we have a new majority in the City of Stockholm. We're very happy about that. Let's take a look at how great this was. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has made open comparisons in 2014, and one can imagine that with this amazing development in Stockholm City, Stockholm's elderly care would have gone like a train – wouldn't it? But here's the thing: You can look for green plums, which show who was good. Stockholm had no such green plow. That's strange, isn't it? Stockholm belonged to some kind of middle category and got a yellow plop. It was 50 percent that got yellow plums, which was in between. And 25 percent got red plums, which was really bad. This was the case at the time, when the city of Stockholm was raised to the skies because privatisation was so extreme here. Does competition benefit quality development? Well, let's look at these numbers and see that maybe it's not always like that. This does not directly highlight quality differences, but we can still see that this is a clear trend. I am absolutely convinced of that. Many people have mentioned the employees in care for the elderly, and I intend to do the same. I think the following is worth mentioning. It is often said that this is an amazing business for women. Then you can look at who has paid for this, and it turns out that it is the private employees who have had to do so. They have significantly lower wages than municipal employees. You could ask yourself if that's the case. But it's on the staff the private operators pull in the profit – what else? It's obvious. This has also become a feminist issue; even the Swedish Democrats, who really are not a party that stands up for feminism, have claimed that this with profit-driven companies is largely a success – a feminist success. When you talk to the staff, you're told it's really not like that. It is certainly not a feminist success. For example, one can look straight into Attendos's group management, which is not a success either – there are five men and two women. That's not so good, is it? Sooner or later, this robbery against welfare will end; I am absolutely convinced of that. I say like Ulf Lundell: But it is the people who build the country The people are the only ones who can I still refer to the major studies that I trust, that is, Sifos, SCB's and so on. There's 70% on the train. I take the self-produced research of industry very lightly, I must say, after four years of being bombarded with their propaganda. Some politicians from the right who have pushed the issue of the market's gold diggery in welfare – because it's really gold digging – have since actually gained positions on these boards. This is true and true, and one can discuss it. It is not a myth, and it is not a spreading of lies; this is for real. If you take the market's business, you can do a short turn, but I think the issue will have a greater impact. We will continue to work for it, because this is a super important issue. Someone mentioned online doctors, and no, they're not profit-making. But this was about how to organise health care, and then you can't have private online doctors. Who's calling the net doctors? It's about how to control health care money. You might think that people from Pajala and Västernorrland are calling online doctors, but that's not the case at all – 43% of those who called were from Stockholm, where we have extreme accessibility, specifically in the inner city. You can think about that. I am not going to go into health care, but this is about the organisation of health care and how the private sectors of health care are loaded to beat the whole welfare around health care.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-706	Madam President, I would like Knowledge is power. A school for a modern and democratic society is not only about training for working life – it is also about everyone's right to education and knowledge. The Left built a school for everyone in the 20th century, contrary to a right that wanted knowledge to be a privilege for a few. Not in any other country were the differences in performance between schools as small as they were here in Sweden. Today, progress is going in the wrong direction. The background of students plays an increasingly important role, and how much students learn depends more and more on which school they end up in and what parents they have. Nearly seven out of ten 15-year-olds in the district of Bergsjön in Gothenburg completed the ninth grade last year without being qualified for upper secondary school. The pattern is similar in many other areas suffering from class segregation. Or, as researcher Anders Thunberg said to Expressen this morning: We are approaching the bottom when it comes to inequality in the Swedish school. A review carried out by the SR programme P1 Caliber together with the Ministry of Education of the UR in 2013 showed how these school groups pressure their staff and teachers to score higher ratings. Eva Jorendahl, teacher of Swedish and religion, was fired when she refused higher grades than she thought the students deserved from the results. In 2016, teachers around the country testified about the pressure to just put higher grades on their students in order to get better pay. You didn't get paid if you had too many failed students," said Gunilla Persson, retired science teacher. Over the past week, we have again received reports on how these joy certificates are put into systems simply to attract what you see as customers but like the rest of us, democrats and people who somehow see welfare as an important function of society, calling students and children. Göran and Magnus are two teachers who were fired and suspended last November. The accusations that Academedia, their employer, directed against them were that they should have been disloyal to the company. They must have refused work and been a threat to the working environment. Academedia has not once backed up its accusations with any concrete documentation of the errors these teachers should have committed. Göran and Magnus had worked at the same school for 9 and 16 years, and not a single remark against these teachers had come in during those years. A couple of months ago, Academedia backed off and demanded that they both be relocated to other schools, as was done. They were also suspended from all types of teaching. Academedia has still not presented any evidence whatsoever against Göran and Magnus. In addition, just before the debate, I was told that there is currently a pre-trial investigation against Academedia for breaches of the protection of the information, and I very much hope that they will go there once and for all on this point. Or why not take up the JB bankruptcy, which has been mentioned earlier in the speaker's chair. From one day to another, children, students, parents and staff were announced: Now we've made our profits—we've made about 1 billion in profits just this year—and now we're disappearing. Now the council will take care of you. Is that how we want to build our welfare? New statistics from the National Agency for Education show that teachers in free schools also have on average significantly lower salaries than the municipal employees of teachers, both in primary and upper secondary schools. You have less access to special education, school libraries, student health and other important functions that it can be saved on. But put all this aside. Let us say that, ideologically speaking, we do not agree with the Left Party on the question of profits in welfare. Worse teacher density-- no, it's ideological. It is left-wing politics to think so. Worse access to student health – it's dictatorship; it's communism. Worse access to libraries – it's not important for anyone other than the left. But what happens when our tax money is also used to advertise and propaganda for the profit hunt in welfare and to send emails to employees saying that a vote on the red-green would mean that you are laid off? Our common tax money is used to, as Academedia did on 19 January this year, send a message to its employees and scare them about this proposal. Whatever the ideology, I believe that a sensible, democratic citizen should think that this is wrong. An equal and good school and preschool is good for all of us. Moreover, when students of different backgrounds and outlooks meet, not only the results, but also the cohesion and democracy, improve. To all of you who work at Academedia, International English School or Knowledge School, I would like to say that it should have been the following in the letters that have gone out to you: Thank you for your efforts and for being involved in creating a better society! Thank you for giving our children every day the tools to grow up and become democratic and build our country! Thank you for training tomorrow's nurses, teachers, doctors and construction workers! Without you, this community building would not have been possible. That is what should have been in the letter from these school owners, but as long as the pursuit of profit takes precedence over everything else for the bourgeois parties, their friends in the Swedish Democrats and venture capital companies, this will not happen. So if you want a coherent and equal school, you vote in favour of this proposal. I would also urge everyone who is watching this debate at home to participate on Thursday at three o'clock in demonstrating in Coins Square against the impact of the Alliance and bourgeois venture capitalists on the proposal. Supporting the organization Students interest before profit interests, because that's exactly what this should be about.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-722	Madam President, I would like We are debating profit in welfare, but really it is loss in welfare we are debating – loss of resources from school pupils to venture capitalists and loss of security in knowing that when I go to the doctor it is only my health care needs that are at the heart of the business. A doctor tries at every point to uphold his oath, but it takes the joy of work to come home and know that you may have been disloyal to the company you work for when you helped the patient and the profit dropped. Already over 100 years ago came George Bernard Shaws's play Doctor's dilemma. Why continue with this dilemma? Why not abolish the profit motive and put the patient at the centre? The Alliance is right when they say that this will not solve all the problems in healthcare. We must abolish the idea of new public management, where every person and every student becomes a customer and there should be a price for everything, no matter what you do. Every person is forced to follow detailed directives instead of using his education as a teacher or doctor to make the most of it. What happens to the teacher who has succeeded well, got some resources over and is happy to make an excursion to the nearest Naturum or perhaps to the historical museum to learn more about ancient times? Then you get into a conflict of loyalty with the owner, and instead of making a meaningful trip, you might get to watch a video about ancient times. Instead of smelling and hearing the birds, you may get to watch a video about nature. It is the wrong driving force if the one who is passionate about the students' development will instead run school for profit's sake. I wish the bourgeois actually believed more in the market. After all, profits are just a huge subsidy policy to help entrepreneurs who are not good enough to earn their own money from ordinary consumers, but instead have to use the law's schooling requirements to make money. Those who have ideas about how children can get better education and those who are passionate about a good old age want to work for pay, whether you can pick out profit or not. And to be honest, we are extreme in Sweden. In Norway you get less money per student if you run free school, and there is no profit leak. In Denmark there are plenty of free schools but no profit opportunities. The Netherlands has a record share of free schools but no profit distributions. Even in the United States an average of 19 percent less money is given per student in free schools if you want it. Or why not mention England, where 7 percent of students attend independent schools. But these private schools are funded from private funds. You can see class gaps and other problems with this, but at least there the money comes into education, not from it to venture capitalists. Even this is actually a way of ensuring that more money goes into than out of the system. Furthermore, 82 percent of American students who attend free schools go to schools without profit. Stanfords's research has shown that they're getting better at math without profit. And hear and be amazed: Even in the United States there was no profit to be made from health care, school and care before 1973. So it is we who are an extreme country. Let's get normal! Diversity will remain, but those who only operate for profit will be lost.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-731	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the rejection of the proposal and for the approval of reservation 1. During the day, we have debated several proposals in the Committee on Finance. Most recently, we debated a bill which the government knew in advance would not be heard here. Yet human resources and time have been spent developing the bill. We also had ministers here, who were eagerly debating the matter. Now that we are going to debate one of the most prominent political proposals of the parliamentary term, the Government Minister is shining with his absence. The Minister of Migration, who is responsible for the matter in substance, is not here, what I can see. The Minister of Finance, who has presented the bill to the Riksdag and the Finance Committee, remains out of the question. Madam President, I would like I think this is weak, but unfortunately it reflects the government's lack of principle. Indeed, having fundamental principles, even when it is blowing, is the proposal on which we are now going to debate. It is not a simple proposal to take a position on, but it is important to know what the basic values are. For us Moderates, the basic values that our asylum system rests on are important to protect. We have criticism of this proposal on three points, which I would like to summarise. Firstly, it makes the right of asylum and the asylum system more legally insecure and undermines the legitimacy of the system and of the entire migration policy. Secondly, it is a deeply unfair proposal, with a high degree of arbitrariness. Thirdly, it is a legislative proposal which, in principle, has no impact assessment. All these points of criticism are linked in different ways. I would like to give some of the Moderates' reasons why we will vote against the Government's proposal on Thursday. If Sweden is to be a country that helps people who are in need of protection – and we should be – then those who do not have protection reasons and have been turned down on their asylum application must return. That is the basis, or rather: it should be the foundation of the Swedish asylum system. A yes must be a yes, and a no should be a no. Tummed the rule of law to this end, Sweden has a legally insecure asylum system in which legitimacy is undermined. I have heard Prime Minister Stefan Löfven say on several occasions that a yes should be a yes and a no should be a no. And yet here we are. Now the Social Democrats want to deviate from the individual asylum examination and grant residence permits to 9 000 young adults, all of whom, each of them, have been tried and rejected. All the legitimate trials and decisions taken by civil servants in the administration concerning these individuals are now to be annulled. A no does not mean a no but instead has become a yes or at least a maybe, contrary to what Stefan Löfven, Magdalena Andersson and Heléne Fritzon have said before. It does not strengthen the credibility of the Social Democrats' migration policy. Madam President, I would like This proposal is really bad legislation. I would like to quote some of the consultative bodies that have spoken about the government's legislative proposals. Let me start with the Administrative Court in Malmö, which says: ..................................................... The Administrative Court of Appeal in Stockholm, which is the Migration Court, writes: ..................................................... And the Law Council writes, and I've never heard of the husband: ..................................................... What the Social Democrats and the Green Party are now presenting in the Riksdag is politics when it is at its worst. Whether we, as Moderates, want a tighter migration policy or, as the government, obviously want a more generous migration policy, it is crucial that the legislation is thought through, consistent and predictable with individual asylum trials. That is the very opposite of what is being presented to Parliament now. And everyone who votes for this proposal on Thursday must take responsibility for this very thing. Madam President, I would like The proposal is also deeply unfair. I hear Social Democrats and others say that one reason for the decision is that the handling of these cases has taken so long. There has been a long processing time at the Migration Agency. I can understand how it feels for all those who have had to wait during that time. I have met people and know that this is an incredibly complex situation. But many have had to wait far too long to have their case tried. It's families and single women with children. They don't get a second chance. This makes this legislation even worse. The proposal is also deeply unfair to the unaccompanied young people who have been telling the truth about their age and who have been refused their asylum application and gone home. They've been following the rules. It's not fair. Madam President, I would like There is another important aspect of this bill. These are impact assessments, or rather the lack of impact assessment. At the end of last year, the Swedish National Audit Office presented a report reviewing previous migration policy decisions. They note that in only a few cases the impact assessments were sufficient. In particular, analyses of the impact on the finances of central and local government were lacking. In this bill, which comes as an additional budget to the Committee on Finance, all forms of impact assessment shine with their absence. The expenditure for the state described is about short-term budgetary costs for the Migration Agency, municipal allowances for refugee reception, etc., but that is not the whole picture. According to the Government's estimates, the cost will amount to approximately 3 billion over a three-year period. This is the financial cost of the state, i.e. what can be read in the budget in various areas of expenditure. But it goes without saying – and that understands every person in Parliament – that there will be additional costs for these 9 000 people, as many referrals have pointed out. But the Ministry of Finance simply doesn't take them into account. Magdalena Andersson speaks very quietly about this very thing. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I would like to quote the Prime Minister: The person who has received yes should enter society as quickly as possible, and the person who has been refused must leave the country. Otherwise, we have no credibility in the reception of refugees. That is what the Prime Minister said. A 'no' should be a 'no', otherwise we have no credibility. This very reasonable and absolutely decisive line has now been abandoned by the Social Democrats. It is weak, and it is worrying for the future. Social democrats take in from the toes of rhetoric and even hold a press conference and talk about the importance of tight migration. But at the same time they give an amnesty for unaccompanied young men who have all been tried by the Migration Board. What really happened to the credibility of the reception of refugees?
i-74ae51410f0d616e-756	Madam President, I would like I, too, intend to begin by making my two requests. The first is, of course, that we support the reservation and call for its approval in the event that a decision is to be taken after this debate. However, on behalf of the Swedish Democrats, I would also like to urge that the matter be referred back to the Committee on Finance because it is extremely ill prepared. It was badly prepared in the first turn when it was sent out to the referral bodies. Furthermore, it was badly prepared when it was sent to the Law Council. It has continued to be ill-prepared after, among other things, the Law Council has pointed out such things as that it has changed things in the bill after the consultation bodies have spoken out. More specifically, there we are talking about identity requirements. After the first round of consultation, the legislative proposal has been amended so that the people concerned will not even have to make their identity likely anymore. I have noted that the committee feels that it has actually complied with the preparation requirements in this respect because it has requested opinions from the committee during the preparation of the dossier. However, the opinions that have been requested have not come from, for example, the Committee on Justice or from authorities and activities that have expertise in security assessments and identity checks. Instead, they have requested opinions from Sweden's municipalities and county councils and the Migration Agency, which have indeed also pointed out that there are problems but do not have an overall view of, for example, safety assessments. The Law Council has pointed out that the changes to the bill that have been made both in the past and now do not lead to any change in the position of the Law Council. Just as we heard in the previous speech, the Law Council believes that the limit on how to make laws is now reached. Madam President, I would like From the Moderates, we mainly heard three reasons for opposing the proposal. I'll be honest and say that I don't know how many reasons I've found– it's hard to know where to start, and it's very possible that my speech will be something crazy for that reason, because there's so much that's wrong. As I have just mentioned, it is no longer a matter of concern that the identity of those covered should even be likely. We have no idea who these people are. This is particularly interesting because what you refer to when you make this change is, among other things, that many have had their age written down. It is believed that this makes it difficult to assess their identity, for age is part of the identity they have stated. So, precisely because it turns out that many have deliberately stated an age that is false and deliberately propounded false information about their identity, we should ignore demanding that they make their identity probable. It is completely incomprehensible to me how such priorities can be set. Madam President, I would like It is a fact that all those covered by this bill are adults. It is a fact that all those covered by the proposal have not been deemed to be in need of protection. It is a fact that this will cost a great deal of money. It's a fact in my world that this doesn't make any sense at all. Among other things, we have been able to read a number of reports in the Express on the situation in Iran, the country from which very many of those covered by this have actually come, even if they happen to be Afghan citizens. Most of them are stable there. Those with refugee status are allowed to go to school and work. It's limited. It's not good. It's really not good. But they're stable. Even the children of undocumented, as they are called, who have come to Iran from Afghanistan are allowed to attend school. Madam President, I would like I noted quite quickly that the money that the red-green parties, all the red-green parties in this House, want to spend on the 9 000 adult men without protection reasons who have chosen to go to Sweden to improve their life situation would very much cover the costs of all Afghan refugees crossing the border with Iran as regards their applications for refugee status and to join the social security systems in Iran. Madam President, I would like Then it is not a question of 9 000 people. It is about 2 000 people a day who make their way from Afghanistan across the border and into Iran. These are the people who would continue to need our help in a much better way. Madam President, I would like It is clear that this proposal was motivated by the actions of activists. I mean not just those activists who have been campaigning for months to get to the bill. I am also thinking of those who have for years given the image of Sweden as a country where laws are not complied with and who have attracted people to come here. Although it has not been our law, in practice they have been promised that they in Sweden will receive subsidies and will get it well and that they will be able to bring their family here. Yes, I fully understand that many have made that choice. Of course you have a limited life situation and are told about a country where you can get gold and green forests, you take a chance and get here. But, Madam President, they have also known what you are doing when you say a false identity. They have also known that this is not a regular migration. The fact that there are people who have ignored the rules that have been in place here and thus have allowed this image to be set cannot mean that we in the country's highest decision-making body, which makes our laws, can allow individual activists to do so that we then have to change our laws. It's not sustainable. It doesn't make sense. I understand that it hurts and that it is hard on the individual who only wants a better life. But I also understand that country with law should be built, and rules must be followed. No matter how you turn it around, in the case you anna declared a false age in order to be able to declare a false age. If you have come here because you have heard that you can get asylum even if you have no grounds for protection, you have applied for asylum even though you have no grounds for protection. It is not a system that we can allow to continue. Madam President, I would like A number of parties, including the Center Party, have pointed out that they support this proposal because the human consequences would be far too great if they did not support it. I would argue that the human consequences are far too great if we support them. It will continue to send out signals that whatever Sweden says and whatever rules we set up, it is enough for a small loud crowd to say: No, you don't have to worry about that. Search here anyway! That is enough for the Riksdag to follow it. It will risk an enormous number of more lives. People choose to take dangerous roads, choose to turn to criminals and choose to lie about their identity in order to come here. It will also mean that we continue to devote considerable resources to this particular group of individuals rather than, for example, investing in enabling better conditions where most refugees are located. Madam President, I would like As I said, there are a great many errors here. One technical point is that it has been stated, among other things, that it would be about people who were children when they came here and who have now grown up because of the long processing times. But you can read the opinion of the Migration Agency that actually came to the Finance Committee. And we in the Social Security Committee invited the Migration Agency and asked them questions, because we took the preparation at least a little more seriously. It appears that it is not the 15 months – or longer – that have gone through the handling of the cases that have led to these people being judged to be adults and having made them unable to stay in the country. The same assessment had taken place in the vast majority of cases. The reason why it has taken a long time is that there is no evidence of their age. Madam President, I would like Referring to the age assessments, which we are now doing better than before because we are actually making them medically, we have a good margin in terms of age. So this argument is not holding anything. Madam President, I would like I could go on forever. I note that I have already exceeded my speaking time. I've made my pleas. To conclude, I just want to be clear: this proposal is not even humane for those to whom it applies. It's almost a choice. I am absolutely convinced that, as far as possible, hopefully at the end of this year, otherwise soon thereafter, we will have a government which knows that laws, rules and signals are important. Madam President, I would like Residence permits granted on the basis of this kind of ludicrous legislation or other errors will not be long-term in our country.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-777	Madam President, I would like This day is the day of the movement. It is a day when it is clear that it pays to stick together, organize and demand change – demand security for the unaccompanied persons who have sought protection in Sweden. I would like to send a special thank-you to all of you who have fought for each other, to those of you who are sitting in the gallery today, to those who follow the debate in the country, to all of you in Young Sweden who have been on strike so that even the Riksdag has started to listen, to all of you in We cannot stand as campaigning and pushing public opinion every day and to everyone around the country who has been peping, comforting and making each other able to cope. This is your day and your partial victory. Real change has never occurred by itself in here. It is always the result of movements in streets, squares and workplaces – so also this time. I thank you for that.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-780	It is not often that we vote in favour of a proposal that we know from the outset is unfair and legally insecure, but this is a partial victory, an important step along the way. Since the government announced its shameful turnaround in refugee policy on November 24, 2015, they have been forced to patch and cook several times because reality comes up and because children and young people not only disappear but are here and live their lives among teachers, good men, classmates, football teams and staff on accommodation. It is a reality that must be met with political responsibility. The government's sudden reversal of the temporary law was distinguished by being both unfair and legally insecure – a retroactive legislation that asylum seekers could not foresee, suspended on a date for the government press conference. It divides families, withdraws protection grounds and creates insecurity through temporary residence permits. Since then, the government has implemented the First High School Act, which was so widely acknowledged that very few people could stay – and today it has presented another law building on the same rather complex thorny and partly unjust. When the government presented the temporary law, it was said that children would be exempted and continued to receive permanent residence permits. That's not what happened. Instead, the Finnish Immigration Service changed its practice and granted temporary residence permits, which means that the unaccompanied persons can get expulsion decisions as soon as they become adults. Moreover, it is clear that the use of the very date of the government press conference in further legislation has created legal uncertainty. The main argument against the proposal we are debating today is that it would go against the principle of individual protection assessments and thus undermine the principles of the legal order that we have. However, this argument presupposes that the safety assessments have been carried out in a legally secure manner, and there are, unfortunately, several reasons for strongly questioning this. The more uncertain a country is, the stronger the need for access to social networks for protection and survival. Field researchers in Afghanistan have been able to show that the only people able to return to the country and integrate are those who have a strong network, family and financial resources in the country. A large proportion, barely 10 000, of the Afghan-origin unaccompanied minors who have come to Sweden have stayed in a country other than Afghanistan before their flight to Sweden, not infrequently Iran. This means that they have no real connection with Afghanistan or, therefore, the social safety net needed to survive. Despite their lack of network, they are still seen by the Migration Agency as average Afghans. This is a serious error in the assessment of protection, as has also been noted by the Migration Court of Appeal, which in March 2017 issued a judgment that allowed most young people under 18 without a safety net in Afghanistan to be granted a residence permit. Madam President, I would like Age assessments are a separate chapter of legal uncertainty that I could talk about for a long time. I would just like to point out that medical age assessments, which have led to young people being aged and there being reduced residence permits, are highly questionable by the medical expertise and, more recently, also the statistical expertise. As many as 50% of the estimates can be completely incorrect. In this there is a clear government responsibility because the government has given clear instructions to the National Board of Forensics that the most important thing is that no adult takes part in resources intended for children. Elias Palm of the National Board of Forensic Medicine has repeatedly repeated that the methods have been chosen on the basis of this government directive. If you wanted to make sure that no child is judged as an adult, you would have chosen a different method," says Palm. One of the most common lies in the debate about unaccompanied minors is that the majority lie about their age. Several parties in this House are happy to contribute to this lie. But the thing is, time has passed. The 16-year-old in December 2015 is not today. It's not the kid who's lied. It's the time that's passed. In the same way, we know that a number of young people are registered in age only on the basis of an assessment made by administrators before medical age assessments were made. Others have been recorded in age based on the highly contested methods of age assessment. The waiting times of the Finnish Immigration Service have been very long. Meanwhile, children and young people have lived several years in Sweden. Up here in the gallery are some of them. With them are friends, good men and people from family homes. Everyone has come to be a family. The unaccompanied have attached strong ties to families, teachers and contact persons they have had. Young people experience adults in families they have lived with as their parents, and foster families feel that the state should take away their children from them. This is deeply traumatic for all involved and creates deep wounds that are difficult to heal in our society. The large number of suicides and self - injury in recent years speaks clearly. Reports from Karolinska Institutet and the professional network We cannot bear to show that at least twelve young unaccompanied minors took their lives in 2017. This means that suicide is nine times as common in the group of unaccompanied minors as in comparable age groups of young people born in Sweden. This is terribly serious. It's a dangerous epidemic. Sweden has for a long time had a zero vision of suicide. We also know a great deal about what is crucial for preventing suicide, namely security and predictability. Safe and stable housing, schooling and a strong social network are directly preventive of depression. But the reality of young people is anything but secure and predictable. The legislation, the asylum process, sudden relocations and losing part of your social safety net overnight when you turn 18 is just the opposite of that. The planned large-scale expulsions to Afghanistan are unrealistic. They are difficult to implement, not least because of the security situation in Afghanistan, which is constantly deteriorating. Putting so many young people and people around them in limbo while awaiting expulsion is unethical and destructive to society. Young people may end up in closed custody or on the street with a risk of crime, prostitution and drug abuse. At the same time, homeless young people on the street in Europe are associated with high costs and harmful effects on society, which in turn becomes the breeding ground for further growth of right-wing and discontent parties. An amnesty, on the other hand, may allow these young people to build a home in Sweden. Furthermore, there is a great deal of agreement among organisations dealing with human rights issues and knowledgeable about Afghanistan that expulsions to the country should be stopped. This is the reality. For all these reasons, the unaccompanied minors affected by legislative changes, legal uncertainty and long waiting periods must be given the opportunity to stay in Sweden. Madam President, I would like The Left Party does not normally believe that amnesty is the best way forward to create a humane and legally secure asylum process, but in certain specific cases and emergency situations it is necessary. We are in such a position. Therefore, it is no secret that the Left Party would have preferred to have seen an amnesty for unaccompanied minors who had waited more than a year. Amnesty and permanent residence permits are the best and most comprehensive solution to ensure young people's protection and a secure future. But we in the Left Party have always been open to finding other solutions. Time and again we have appealed to the government and other parties to sit with us in order to create peace and security for the unaccompanied. When the government presented this latest proposal, we were clear – we were prepared to go in and negotiate with the government and others who wanted to take responsibility for improving the proposal. Unfortunately, the government chose to keep the door closed. Pending an amnesty, the Left Party has chosen to table a number of amendments which could significantly improve the proposal. In order not to hold back the implementation of the Government's proposal, we propose that the Riksdag approve the proposal and at the same time decide on some improvements. Since it may take time before a new bill can be submitted to the Riksdag with our amendments, we want the Riksdag to authorise the Government to decide on a temporary exemption from the expulsion provisions of the Aliens Act. In this way, the Government's proposal can enter into force, and the young people who are able to obtain a residence permit as proposed by the Government, while the group of young people who may be affected by our proposals will not be expelled while the amendments are being discussed in the Riksdag. Moreover, such an exception would have been important even when the government presented its proposal. By then a large number of young people would not have ended up on the street without accommodation and compensation. Our improvements are essentially about two things. The date limit is 24 November 2015. This means that only those whose first application for a residence permit has been registered with the Finnish Immigration Service on or before 24 November 2015 and who have received a decision at the earliest at the 15-month time limit have the possibility to be granted a residence permit. These two requirements mean that many young people will still be excluded. In addition, because of this date, the bill means that two people in exactly the same situation who have arrived in Sweden at just day intervals may be treated differently only depending on when the Migration Agency registered their application. Friends who may have arrived on the same day but by chance had to wait different lengths of time for the decisions will have completely different opportunities to stay. All these effects are unfair. They're not legally sure. The Left Party therefore, like many referrals, wants the date limit to be removed. That is why we also think that the 15-month deadline should be replaced by a six-month deadline, which is better in line with the general rule of the EU Directive on common procedures for granting and withdrawing international protection, for how long unaccompanied minors should wait for decisions. The changes I have just described would mean that young people who have applied for a residence permit and had to wait more than six months for an expulsion decision would be granted a residence permit if the other conditions for a residence permit were met. The proposal also means that one condition for being covered by the new residence permit is that the refusal decision has been or should have been taken when it is 18 years old or older. No assessment of whether the young person would have received a residence permit or not if the application had been examined before the 18th anniversary will be made. This means that a person who has had his application examined at the age of 17 and was rejected may end up in a worse situation than the one who applied for a residence permit at the age of 17 but has his application examined only after he has reached the age of 18. Both the Chancellor of Justice and the Finnish Immigration Service have pointed to this problem and the inconsistency of the proposal in their referrals. The Finnish Immigration Service itself points to the difficulty for the asylum seeker to show or make his age likely. Therefore, there will be no possibility of granting a residence permit to a majority of the applicants covered by the proposal. The persons covered by the new residence permit have three months to submit an application and the application may be made on one occasion. The restrictions mean that a formal application must be made in all cases, i.e. even when the applicant has appealed his expulsion order to a court. As a reason for limiting the application period to three months, it is stated that it is important that the application is made in close connection with the entry into force of the Act in order for the time until a decision on a residence permit to be as short as possible. This may seem good. However, although many of those eligible for a residence permit under the new provisions are likely to have a final removal decision when the law comes into force, it is very unclear how much of the persons concerned will actually have had time to have a final removal decision when the law comes into force. The Finnish Immigration Service has had and still has major problems with long processing times. In addition, most of the decisions of the Finnish Immigration Service are appealed in court, which means that there may be an uncertain number of young people who still have an open case before the authority or the court when the proposal comes into force. It is a matter of fact that a person who has not yet received a final decision rejecting his application should know or understand the importance of having to make a new application on a different basis in order to obtain the new residence permit, even if the individual has legal representation. Even for those who have actually had time to get a final decision on removal, three months is a very short time if the intention is to give those concerned a real opportunity for a new trial. All these parts – the age limit, the requirement that the young person has received or should have received an expulsion decision and the short application period – we consider that they are poorly investigated and designed. We therefore believe that these elements should be examined and clarified in new legislation. I would like to conclude by saying that this is the day of the movement. The partial victory for which everyone has fought so hard has now arrived. However, we will not be satisfied. We will not leave the children and young people who are still living their lives in uncertainty and insecurity. Instead, we will use today's partial victory as power and fuel to push forward new steps for security for all unaccompanied minors. We are sure that we will succeed side by side. It shows this day, too. Madam President, I would like I am in favour of reservation 2 and I also refer to the special opinion of the Left Party.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-807	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the rejection of the proposal and for the approval of reservation 1. Today's debate is about the proposal for a de facto amnesty for upper secondary education that the government has presented. Let me make it clear at the outset that the Liberals are not in favour of this bill. We will vote against it. Like the Law Council and a number of other consultation bodies, we are highly critical. The Government's legislative proposal means that 9 000 people who have been refused their asylum applications should be able to obtain a residence permit in Sweden – in any case if they register in upper secondary school, in Komvux or in vocational education and training. All the persons covered by the proposal are of age, almost all are men, a large majority have not managed to make their identity likely and many have unfortunately refused to cooperate with Swedish authorities and have gone underground after a rejection decision. This group wants the Red-Green parties and the Center Party collectively to be given special treatment over all other asylum seekers. From the Liberals' point of view, this is not reasonable. Mr President, I would like to We in the Liberals have always stood up for the right of asylum and a humane refugee policy. This means that we protect individual redress and the right to appeal in court. Sweden cannot accept everyone who wants to live here. It can't take our society. This means that priority must be given to those in need of protection. It can be very difficult. We are talking about people who may have travelled very far, paid large sums of money to get here and who see no future in a return. But this is a conflict of interests that we in Parliament must manage to deal with. We will make great efforts to help refugees and invest more in integration. Sweden will also receive quota refugees from war zones. Today we receive 5,000 a year. That is something we in the Liberals are working hard for. However, people who are repeatedly refused asylum applications and who do not have sufficient protection needs according to our authorities and courts must also return. Unfortunately, we now see that the Red-Green parties and the Center Party are unable to stand up for that order. Individual examination is protected as long as people are allowed to accept their applications. But when people are rejected, they want to legislate on amnesties and run over our authorities and courts. In the end, this means that Sweden gets a migration policy with temporary laws on special treatment in an increasingly complicated regulatory framework where organised campaigns run and those who can mobilize the largest supporters for their cause can stay. Losers are all those who do not have the same strong voice and those who have not been able to get journalists to write about their situation. It is all those who have followed the rules, have accepted Swedish government decisions and returned when they have been rejected. They don't get amnesties. Sweden is today expelling women to Iraq. I haven't seen any campaigns to keep them here. Mr President, I would like to As a Liberal, I believe that such a migration policy is deeply unfair. It departs from the principle of individual examination, equivalence and legal certainty. It places groups against groups, and it drains Swedish asylum policy on legitimacy. If political winds blow in the other direction in the future, the gods will know what demands can then be made to do the opposite and deport entire collectives from Sweden instead of giving amnesties. Mr President, I would like to In this context, we must also mention the criticism that the Law Council has made against the bill. In its statement on the Council's referral earlier this spring, the Council of Law stated that the limit here has been reached for what is acceptable in terms of how legislation can be drawn up. That is extremely serious criticism. Swedish Television's internal political commentator Mats Knutson in his analysis of the Swedish Law Council's response stated that it reminds us of a Swedish legal version of the chainsaw massager. He went on to say, "Never before have I read an opinion of the Council of Law with equally devastating criticism." I'm willing to agree. Mr President, I would like to Let me now also mention another part of the criticism that we in the Liberals have against the bill. It concerns the consequences this has for the Swedish school, not least for principals and teachers. Today we have major challenges when it comes to meeting knowledge goals and equivalence in Swedish schools. From the Liberals' side, we are critical of the Swedish upper secondary school becoming a tool for migration policy. It is not reasonable that either processing times or, for example, language introduction studies in upper secondary school should be considered as grounds for obtaining a residence permit in Sweden. It is the need for protection to determine this. The number of 9,000 people may not sound very much in a country with 10 million inhabitants. But that corresponds to well over 300 school classes. This corresponds to approximately eight or nine large upper secondary schools in Sweden in the order of Norra Real in Stockholm or Schillerska high school in Gothenburg. Both the High School Act adopted by Parliament last year – we also voted against it by the Liberals – and the report of the Committee on Finance we are debating today means that the student should demonstrate study activity, as it is said, in order for the residence permit to be extended. This means, Mr President, that teachers and principals should determine whether the student has conducted his or her studies. However, if a person has not shown sufficient study activity, the residence permit shall not be extended. There is, of course, an obvious risk that teachers and principals will have to make decisions that will determine whether a person can stay in the country. From the Liberals' point of view, it is unreasonable to place such a moral and ethical burden on school staff in Sweden. It is the Finnish Immigration Service that is to decide who can stay or not in Sweden. In addition, teachers and principals can of course be subjected to external pressure to approve pupils in order to avoid expulsion. Mr President, I would like to Even if the demands are low – that is to say, to report study activity – we do not escape the fact that students are in a class, that they have teachers, that they are to attend the classes and that they are to behave. Thus, teachers and principals, no matter how you twist it and turn it around, ultimately become part of the decision on whether or not people receive a renewed residence permit and whether they have to be expelled. There are a number of further objections to the bill. The government wants to remove all demands that this group of 9 000 people have to prove their identity or even make it likely. It is proposed that the legal text should be exactly as follows: Residence permits may be granted even if the identity of the foreigner is unclear and he or she has not been able to make his or her declared identity likely. This means that the Riksdag must legislate for Sweden to waive the right to know the identity of persons who are granted the right of residence in our country. I believe that this must be balanced against the interest of Sweden as a state, as the rule of law, in the fact that people who are given the right to live here can also prove their identity or make it likely. In addition, a person may be granted a temporary residence permit if he or she is studying or intending, as it is said, to study in upper secondary school, komvux or a vocational education or training. This means that a person only needs to state that he/she intends to study and not that he/she actually does or will actually do so. The Legislative Council also makes clear criticism of this part of the bill. Mr President, I would like to There is also a risk that the law will not give some of the unaccompanied persons the opportunity to remain in Sweden. If people fail to meet study activity requirements, they will still have to return. Since an overwhelming majority of those who today study or have done language introduction have not previously reached upper secondary school degrees, their chances of getting jobs will be worse than most others. And without a job, there will be no extension of the residence permit. For some, the law can rather become a patch that is slowly pulled off. The question is how humane it is for a country like Sweden to give people, despite their refusal, hope to stay in the country and then after perhaps five, six or seven years force them to return. Mr President, I would like to Finally, from the Liberals' side, we are critical of several tightenings that were made in the temporary asylum law that the government pushed through in 2016. We voted against the demands of the Social Democrats and the Green Party for a sharp deterioration in the right to family reunification and the asylum grounds, particularly and extremely distressing circumstances. We believe that Sweden must have a long-term sustainable asylum policy based on legal certainty and equivalence. But the government now wants to make the forest of temporary laws and complicated regulations even more difficult. And now on the table of the Riksdag is a proposal that threatens the rule of law, which eliminates equivalence, which over-examines court decisions and puts groups against each other. Mr President, I would like to Such legislation cannot be supported by the Liberals.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-836	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the proposal to be rejected and therefore for reservation 1 in the report. I would also like to refer to our specific opinion in the report, which summarises our argument on this issue. For a long time, Sweden has been one of the countries in Europe and the Western world where the most people have sought asylum. In 2013, 2014 and early 2015, this number gradually increased to culminate during the so-called refugee crisis in the autumn of 2015. In total, in 2013-2015, almost 300 000 people came to Sweden to apply for asylum. Of these, more than 46 000 were unaccompanied children and young people. Thanks to a fundamentally stable and well-functioning asylum system, but also because we have had a civil society that has taken a very large responsibility in several different areas, Sweden has long been able to manage the initial reception reasonably well. The fact that a reception of the stork order we had in 2013– 2015, for a very limited time, poses difficulties for a small country like Sweden, however, is not strange. In the short term, it is important, among other things, that asylum applications can be registered and processed within a reasonable period of time and that there should be sufficient housing to move into. In the longer term, it is then important that the new residents can receive the support they need to be able to establish themselves in the labour market and in Swedish society at large. Mr President, I would like to The fact that these short- and long-term difficulties, as well as the costs of Sweden's reception of asylum, increased in scope was the background to the presentation of several new proposals by the Christian Democrats in autumn 2014. Among other things, it was that the person who is granted asylum in Sweden should as a general rule be given a temporary residence permit rather than a permanent one and that the establishment allowance for new arrivals should be reduced while reducing the tax on labour. The reception of these proposals in the Swedish social debate was tough, not least from the government parties. This is quite the wrong entrance, for example, was Prime Minister Stefan Lövven's comment. However, in autumn 2015, the government had also realised that changes needed to be made to the Swedish regulations. A migration policy agreement was reached between the government parties and the Alliance containing several proposals similar to those presented a year earlier by the Christian Democrats. But, Mr President, it turned out to be too late, why the Christian Democrats drew up a large number of additional proposals to improve reception and, in general, to deal with the migration situation. In November 2015, we pointed out, among other things, the need to introduce border controls and that asylum application areas should be established near our major border crossings. The reaction from the government was still rejection, and then the immigration minister Morgan Johansson was one of several who expressed criticism. But just a few weeks later, the well-known press conference was held where the government did a complete overhaul of migration policy. This press conference presented the foundations of the so-called temporary law. Sweden would now go at a stroke from having the EU's perhaps most generous migration policy to laying down itself at the Union's minimum level. Mr President, I would like to At this point the Christian Democrats welcomed the fact that the government finally reacted but felt that the reaction was far too late and that it was therefore more powerful than it should have been. When the Government's concrete legislative proposals were presented in spring 2016, the Christian Democrats' response was to stand by the balanced policy in this area that we ourselves outlined in the previous years. We thought it was a good thing that the government now proposed that temporary residence permits should be used as a general rule, but that the 13-month residence permits proposed by the government for, among other things, alternative protection needs were too short. We also opposed both the restrictions imposed by the government on the possibility of family reunification for certain categories of protection and the removal of the provisions on exceptional and particularly distressing circumstances as a basis for residence permits. At the same time, we felt that several changes that should have been made were missing from the government proposal, which was also hastily developed and strongly criticised by, among others, the Law Council. Consequently, when the temporary law was discussed here in the Riksdag in June 2016, we voted on our own proposals rather than on those presented by the Government. Mr President, I would like to A year later, in spring 2017, the government came with a supplement to the temporary migration legislation, now with a proposal to introduce a residence permit for studies at upper secondary level. The government had discovered that, among other things, the removal of the provisions on particularly distressing circumstances as the basis for a residence permit was unreasonably harsh on persons arriving in Sweden as unaccompanied minors, and it therefore proposed certain special rules for this group. On the part of the Christian Democrats, we pointed out that the government itself, through its hasty and thus ill-prepared and over-restrictive legislation, was involved in creating the situation that they were now trying to resolve with a new temporary legislation. However, we were not the only ones to criticise the proposal, but both the majority of referrals and the Council of Law had significant comments. In the parliamentary process, we, the Christian Democrats, once again put forward our own proposals and voted in favour of them at the vote. Mr President, I would like to Now, another year later, we are in a similar situation where the government wants to supplement the already supplemented, temporary migration legislation. The present proposal is yet another example of, as is the consequence of, a poorly prepared and arbitrary migration policy. It is not surprising, therefore, that this time too, the Government's proposal has suffered very severe criticism in the consultation round. One of the Council's opinions, for example, was that the limit here has been reached for what is acceptable in terms of how legislation can be drafted. As in 2016 and 2017, the Christian Democrats choose to highlight in the parliamentary treatment the policy in this area that we have been running for almost the entire term of office. At the same time, we have several reasons to vote in the vote this time, unlike the votes in June 2016 and June 2017, strongly reject the Government's proposal. The reasons on which our position is based are to be read in full in our follow-up motion, but I intend to go through our three main arguments in this House. Firstly, the Government's proposal is arbitrary and contributes to a deterioration of legal certainty in the asylum system. Swedish legislation, and in particular our asylum legislation, must be characterised by legal certainty, predictability and logic. It must also reward those who follow the rules and tell the truth. However, these central concerns are not achieved with the government's proposal, but rather the opposite. For example, the person who falsely stated on arrival a lower age than the actual age will end up in a better situation than the person should end up in. The same applies to those who have infringed the rules in force and who have not returned to their country of origin on their own initiative when they have obtained a final decision on expulsion. At the same time, some of those who indicated a correct age at the time of application and those who have actually returned home when a final rejection decision has been obtained in a worse situation. The Christian Democrats believe that it is very unfortunate that the processing times in recent years have been as long as they have been, which has affected individuals. However, in a world where 65 million people are on the run, it is an unfair and arbitrary principle that it is the length of the Finnish Immigration Service's and Swedish courts' processing times and not the individual's circumstances and asylum reasons that should determine the possibility of a residence permit. Just as the Swedish Law Council states in its opinion, the Government's proposal would imply a new and untested principle of Swedish law, and just as the Chancellor of Justice does, it is reasonable to ask whether the proposal does not violate the principle of equality before the law. Mr President, I would like to Our second main reason for voting against the Government's proposal is that it undermines the right of asylum. The Christian Democrats' starting point is to protect the right of asylum and that Sweden has a moral responsibility to help fellow people in need. Like 144 other countries, Sweden has signed the UN Refugee Convention. This means a number of obligations, including that the foreigner who is in Sweden and who considers himself in need of protection has the right to apply for asylum here but also that each person's application for asylum should be examined individually. At the same time, the Christian Democrats believe that Sweden's migration policy should be regulated. One consequence of this is that those persons who, in the asylum process, are not deemed to be refugees or have other security reasons, nor on any other basis do they meet the residence permit criteria, must return to their home country. It is also part of safeguarding the right of asylum. However, the Government's proposal departs from this principle. A prerequisite for the persons who have received a final expulsion decision to be covered by the bill is that they are still in Sweden, i.e. that they have actively defied decisions taken by Swedish authorities and courts. Priming such behaviour would have a very negative effect on the legitimacy of Swedish migration policy. The incentives to return to Sweden on their own after a final expulsion decision was obtained would be reduced, and an unfortunate signal would also be sent outside the country's borders that those who make their way to Sweden, often via dangerous roads and smugglers of human beings, and stay long enough can eventually be expected to obtain a residence permit regardless of whether they need international protection or not. Mr President, I would like to Our third main reason for voting against the government proposal is that the proposal creates false hopes in an already vulnerable group. It is important to remember that the Government's proposal does not give these people, who have come to Sweden as an unaccompanied minor, any right to stay in Sweden long-term. What this means is the possibility of a short, time-limited residence permit, which in the long term can be converted into a permanent residence permit for those who can manage their studies and get a job that can support themselves. However, the vast majority of the approximately 9 000 people to whom the proposal is addressed lack, for quite natural reasons, upper secondary school qualifications in Sweden. The form of education available to them is thus vocational education and training in adult education. Today, however, there are no places for new young people in this form of education or, at least what I know, any plan for how to create them or money for it. This, together with the fact that young people who have come to Sweden of a relatively old age have documented difficulties in getting through Swedish education with approved grades, suggests that the government's proposal, to a very large extent, will only give false hopes to an already vulnerable group and postpone the return to the future. The Christian Democrats believe that this is not a worthy way of dealing with the situation. Mr President, I would like to Finally, what needs to be done forward in the area of migration policy? As we Christian Democrats see it, there are essentially three things: A parliamentary inquiry should be set up with a view to achieving a long-term and transparent migration policy. There must be an end to the big steps back and forth in migration policy. The conditions for those who have been granted a residence permit in Sweden to establish themselves in our society and in our labour market must be strengthened properly. A time of reform must follow this very poor term of reform. 中 Return work must be improved among those who are refused asylum applications. Mr President, I would like to I regret that there seems to be support for the government's proposal to give people who have already been refused their asylum applications a new opportunity to obtain a residence permit. At the same time, I note that there will be elections soon. And in the next parliamentary term, migration policy must be dealt with differently from what has been the case in recent years.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-862	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the government proposal for a new residence permit. It is an issue that has been involved for a long time, and the views are many and different. At that point I think it's good to back up the band and look at what this debate is really about. As a country, we have taken a great deal of responsibility in the area of migration for a long time. We have combated the causes of people fleeing, ensuring help in the neighbourhood and pushing for joint responsibility in Europe. And at home we have improved our reception, not least by ensuring that all Swedish municipalities share responsibility. We have dealt with difficulties and challenges and taken advantage of people and opportunities. I'm proud of that. We all know that autumn 2015 came to be special. Never before have so many people been on the run in the world, and 163 000 sought asylum here in Sweden. Most of them did it for a few months in late autumn. Of these, 35 000 were unaccompanied. We would never have met that challenge if the whole of society hadn't merged. Mr President, I would like to Today's debate is largely about that autumn. The Government announced on 24 November 2015 that it would implement the Temporary Act, which will apply until next summer. It was a tightening up of migration policy with a clear aim: that more people should apply for asylum in other countries and that fewer should apply here. If we had there and then, in the autumn of 2015, passed a normal trial of these unaccompanied minors, we would not be standing here today. By then, the 35 000 unaccompanied minors had been tried as children and had their decisions based on that legislation. But today we have another reality to deal with. I think it is responsible to tell you clearly how we Social Democrats view migration policy in the coming years. The tightening up that we did then should remain in place until a common European asylum policy is in place. In the same way, it is perfectly natural for me to relate to the reality of unaccompanied minors. Long processing times have led to many of those who came on their own that autumn having, or will have, grown up before the Migration Agency has made decisions on their asylum matters. As a result, their ability to be granted a residence permit in our country has deteriorated considerably. In this debate or other debates one can easily get the impression that it is about some who had their trials in spring 2016, that it is only about that we did not make it in autumn 2015. But the truth is that when we stand in this Chamber today – almost three years later – a few hundred of them still have not got their decisions. This is a proposal for a temporary measure aimed at a limited group of unaccompanied young people who came here but who have had to wait a long time to have their applications examined. After a very long waiting period, over 15 months and sometimes up to two three years, they have been rejected. They are still in the country and have in many different ways linked to Sweden. I think it is perfectly reasonable to take as a starting point that the people who may be covered by this proposal for new legislation should not end up in a worse position than they would have been if the procedure had not been delayed. I therefore call for the proposal of the Committee on Finance to be approved in report 49. Mr President, I would like to These are difficult questions. It is about people in vulnerable situations, and it is about a responsibility that society has. With this proposal, we can relate to people who are in a vulnerable situation and who have had to wait a very long time. The background is the exceptionally large reception Sweden had in 2015 and 2016. The basic principle in Sweden is that the people who arrived should not end up in a worse position because the legislation we have changed does not meet it. I also think that it is appropriate to be clear on some points that come up in the debate. This is not a change in either the right of asylum or the principle of regulated immigration in Sweden. It is a question of how policy should react to reality and take responsibility for a situation arising from the situation in 2015. Now we are giving these young people an opportunity to have an individual examination at one point, if they meet the criteria that have been set for obtaining residence permits linked to studies. It is proposed that the application for such a residence permit be made only for a limited period of time and on one occasion. As under the current legal framework on residence permits for upper secondary school studies, a security and vandelstest must also be carried out. A foreigner granted such a residence permit shall be subject to the existing legal framework on residence permits for upper secondary level studies and permanent residence permits for subsistence purposes. It's good for them, it's good for our country and it's something we can handle. At the same time, we continue in every way to protect both order and justice and the right to asylum in Swedish politics. Finally, I would like to touch briefly on the other legislative proposals included here. They include the professional package and make the secondary legislation we have clear in a good way. But they also change the automatic enforcement barrier that existed before. With the bill on which we have the opportunity to vote in favour on Thursday, we will have a very clear provision on inhibition. That is a good thing, and it is something that both authorities and consultation bodies welcome. So do we.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-877	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Fredrik Lundh Sammeli! First, I would just like to comment on the challenges we faced in 2015. I share that picture and that there were many around Sweden who made fantastic contributions. I would also like to remind you that, in several parties together, we managed to agree on a regime that tightened up migration. There are still quite so many who come to Sweden, but we solved the situation together. What still surprises me is that the chairman of the Social Security Committee, who is nevertheless responsible for these issues, really believes in his own motivation for this legislation. Reality has changed. Reality changes all the time, that's how it works. I have some questions for Fredrik Lundh Sammeli that I want to be clarified. Have the Social Democrats abandoned the individual test? It is civil servants who have made 9 000 decisions. It has not been done in haste; it has been taken by officials. What does the chairman of the Social Security Committee have to say to them? Have the Social Democrats abandoned the individual test? Will it be done more times when reality changes? My second question is: which path does the Social Democrats intend to take? I hope very much that the press conference that Stefan Löfven had about the focus will apply. But you get very perplexed when we are now discussing and going to make a decision on this matter. I am also perplexed when the Social Democrats and the government announced on Friday at the European Council whether they intend to pursue the issue of permanent residence permits at European level. There are three different, disparate orientations that Swedish Social Democracy is now trying to stick to at the same time. My still wondering is: Why should one have confidence in social democratic migration policy in the future? What exactly is the line?
i-74ae51410f0d616e-883	Mr President, I would like to Elisabeth Svantesson also highlighted some of these points in her speech. What surprises me is that a candidate for finance in this House gives the impression that the Government proposal calls into question and departs from the right of asylum, that it should no longer be an individual examination. First of all, the right of asylum is something that we uphold. There, the Moderates may themselves develop the question of whether you share that view – that the right of asylum is something that we should protect. But the unaccompanied have had a trial. With the new legislation, they will have an individual examination for residence permits linked to studies, not linked to asylum. The second question was why you should trust the Social Democrats. Yes, I think that is very clear. The exceptional situation in 2015 means that we as a party clearly take responsibility for creating order and order. We are tightening up migration policy, we are ensuring a system that works and we are also pushing for more countries to take their share of the responsibility. Then it surprises me more that Elisabeth Svantesson does not think that permanent residence permits are basically the best thing for establishment and integration. I believe that the broad Swedish approach has this as a starting point.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-888	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting when responsible politics do not want to take responsibility, when they claim that they do not leave the individual trial and yet do just that. So there are 9 000 people, and government representatives claim that they were minors when they came here. I wonder how you can know that. Many were in all likelihood minors, but others were not. But they have had an individual test. What the legislator is now doing is telling all the officials who have complied with the law that has been in force for a long time about individual trials to change this now. It's a collective management of a group. You say that they receive individual trials and that it will go fairly quickly because you issue the law in this way. But collective management of a group is a departure from the individual trial. It is a departure from the principle that has been in force in Sweden for a long time and that I hoped we agreed on. Mr President, I would like to Finally, many of us were involved in taking responsibility in 2015. We Moderates reviewed our entire migration and integration policy in spring 2015. It was a work that I myself led, and I know that Fredrik Lundh Sammeli knows that we were driving. Perhaps we helped the Social Democrats in relation to the Green Party; what do I know? That doesn't matter to me, because we helped Sweden to get things right in migration policy. During the previous parliamentary term, I and we have said and taken responsibility for the fact that many governments have not managed migration and integration policies in a manageable way. I know that the Social Democrats sometimes claim that they now have to take responsibility for the migration policy we conducted. I can see that there were no Social Democrats who ever opposed that policy. Well, sometimes the Social Democrats felt that the Alliance was pursuing a too harsh migration policy. Total sum: I hope and believe deep down that the Social Democrats want to take long-term responsibility. But do not say that this is not a departure from the asylum procedure that is so important and also legally secure!
i-74ae51410f0d616e-893	Mr President, I would like to The Social Democrats welcome all parties that want to be involved in taking responsibility for a long-term and sustainable migration policy. We have dealt with the exceptional situation in 2015. We have also given very clear information on how we view politics in the coming years. There are some major challenges. One is about fighting the cause of people fleeing. It is about getting better support in the world to help in the neighbourhood. But it is also a question of Europe taking greater joint responsibility. We will continue to push this forward. We believe that the temporary law should remain in place until the date on which Europe has a common asylum policy. Then I find it surprising that the Moderates are so hard on this bill. These are unaccompanied minors who have had their asylum reasons examined. For a long time, they have grown up and are hit worse by the temporary law and thus end up in a much worse position. But basically there is a very clear similarity to the change of track that the Moderates themselves represent, that asylum seekers can be rejected but still have the opportunity to be tested linked to the labour market. Here, unaccompanied minors are given the opportunity to be tested in connection with studies. It's a good policy.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-896	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for the last change of line which showed the holes in the policy of the alliance parties, too, although in many ways this policy makes more sense. My question is linked to what Elisabeth Svantesson was into as hastily, and it concerns the fact that they say that these unaccompanied minors were children when they arrived. It is because of the long processing time that you are no longer a child. The only one from the Finance Committee who has been involved in dealing with this matter is Elisabeth Svantesson. Fredrik Lundh Sammeli was a member of the Social Security Committee when we visited the Migration Board. At that time, it was made clear once again what was stated in the opinion that was submitted to the Committee on Finance, namely that the age registered does not need to be based on an assessment of the actual age of the applicants. That's how the procedures have been with the Migration Agency. The age to which they referred, that they were children, there are no grounds whatsoever for. There are no grounds for assessing an actual age. The Finnish Immigration Service also says: The proposal therefore means that persons who may be several years older than the registered birth data will be covered by the proposal, granted a residence permit and may therefore study at upper secondary level. Over the years we have seen countless examples that people have declared wrong age. A few years ago we could read about Sia in Expressen. She said: Yes, I am 22, but in Sweden I am 17 years old. The other day we could read that a person who stabbed a cop was 25 years old. There are exam papers from high school that it is the age that applies. Why do the Social Democrats claim that this should be about children?
i-74ae51410f0d616e-901	Mr President, I would like to In autumn 2015, 35 000 came to our country and applied for asylum as an unaccompanied minor. It is a problem that we did not then have a system of clear age assessments and that they were early in the process. We have ensured this now and changed the legislation so that we have a better model in the future. However, this is a limited group, which has been put in a much worse position precisely because of long waiting times and the temporary law that today makes them tested under tougher conditions than if we had managed to do it all autumn 2015. I therefore think it is perfectly reasonable to relate to reality and to the unaccompanied and to meet them with an opportunity for a new residence permit linked to studies. I think you will always be able to find examples where facts or age can be questioned. Someone may appear in a different way from what has appeared in the application. This is true in all areas of migration policy. It is therefore important to return to a situation with a clear trial with short periods of time. More countries must also take responsibility. What surprises me is that Paula Bieler here in the debate and in her speech chooses to line up an enormous number of arguments. Basically, it's just that you don't want those who are here to come.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-904	Mr President, I would like to As I said, I would have been able to recite even more arguments. This is, for a number of reasons, a bad piece of legislation. The reason I am focusing on these things is that I still hope that somewhere there are parties that want to take responsibility for proposals that are obviously bad, even with their own arguments. There is no evidence that these were children when they came here. I, for my part, find it absurd to give adults the opportunity to stay here at all if they have used the asylum acquis to come here and seek a life here even though they have no grounds for protection. That's not how it's supposed to be. But I know that most other parties do not listen to such arguments. That is why I am trying to focus on what you yourself suggest. And it won't last. There is no evidence that these were children when they came here, even according to the Migration Board itself. On a straight question whether it is likely that they would have been rejected even if the assessment had been made earlier, Anna Lindblad, who works there, answers as follows: and yes, it is probably a high probability that this would have been the case. ..................................................... Like many others, these residence permits are probably not to give a long-term life in Sweden. Most will not meet further conditions to stay here. This is all about deceiving people and keeping life alive in strange signals sent out that regulations do not apply. You may think that hopefully you will get some extra votes in the elections. I hope and believe that the Swedish people see through this game and vote better and wiser than that. However, I still want answers to my question. How have the Social Democrats the nerve to assert with determination that it is about people who had been allowed to stay in Sweden if the assessment had only taken place faster? The Finnish Immigration Service says this is not the case. There is nothing at all to prove that they were children when they arrived.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-909	Mr President, I would like to We have a system of legislation for unaccompanied minors. This is about children who come here and have more opportunity to stay. We have a further test because we think they are in a very vulnerable situation. The fact that we have not had age assessments early in the process is bad, and that is something that we have addressed. We would have been in a completely different position if that possibility had existed. At the same time, I think it is very strong to give the impression in this House that these 35 000 unaccompanied minors were not children or young people. I know that Paula Bieler, just as I have visited a lot of accommodations and activities for these people. Those who wanted to seek as unaccompanied and explicitly appeared as adults are not included in this group. Young people who are not children have also been judged accordingly. There is a reality with a defined group that needs to be dealt with. I think it is responsible to be able to both point to a tighter migration policy that ensures order and order while managing the group of children and young people who came in 2015 and who have been waiting for several years for decisions to be taken. Now that they are over 18, they are being tried against tougher legislation that forces them to leave the country. It is reasonable to call for approval of the proposal.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-912	Mr President, I would like to It has been expressed in the first two lines following Fredrik Lundh Sammeli's speech, and above all in his reply, very much astonishment over various things. One thing I have been surprised by in today's debate – by the way, probably this year's most important debate on migration policy in Parliament – is that there is no representative of the government here. I am, of course, fully aware that the JHA Council is meeting today, and it is perfectly reasonable that Heléne Fritzon and Morgan Johansson should be present there and represent Sweden's cause in this. However, many ministers have been involved in this bill. When the first version of the proposal was presented last autumn, Ylva Johansson, Gustav Fridolin and Isabella Lövin were also on the podium. It is therefore a little strange that the government is not present at such an important debate as this. I would like to put a first question to Lundh Sammeli concerning the various tours back and forth on the issue among the representatives of the Social Democrats. I found an article in Expressen from the end of May 2017. There, the Prime Minister was asked about possible legislative changes regarding unaccompanied minors. The Prime Minister then answered the question of whether the laws need to be changed: We have the laws we have. ..................................................... Nevertheless, we are debating such a proposal today. I would like to ask Fredrik Lundh Sammeli about the different stages back and forth. In what way does this promote long-term credibility for Swedish migration policy?
i-74ae51410f0d616e-915	Mr President, I would like to As Aron Modig knows, the government is in Brussels negotiating. There's nothing weird about that. In reality, ministers are not present at most of the proposals and reports here in Parliament. There is talk of different tours back and forth. Some are briefly that it was thought that the unaccompanied people would be included and be able to survive on the high school team we already have. It's part of the explanation. When we announced on 24 November 2015 that we would introduce a temporary law with a much stricter and tighter migration policy, we also gave a clear message that children would not end up in a worse position just because they could not have a longer residence permit linked to work. Based on this, we have therefore developed the Upper Secondary Education Act. Unfortunately, the trials have not gone as fast as I and many with me would have liked. That is why three years later we are in a position with a limited group of young people who have ended up in a very tough situation. It is then natural to present today's proposal and hope that it will gain a majority on Thursday.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-919	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Fredrik Lundh Sammeli, for your answer! As I said, I am fully aware that the responsible ministers are in place and are negotiating at the JHA Council. I'm glad they do. But what is remarkable about this proposal is that there have been a great many ministers involved in the process. When the proposal was presented, Ylva Johansson, Gustav Fridolin and Isabella Lövin were involved, and now that this is the most important migration policy debate we have here in Parliament during the year, it would not have been strange if any of these interested parties had been present. Earlier today, in this House, the issue of welfare gains was debated, and then Ardalan Shekarabi was in place from the government. It was clearly a sufficiently important debate to be in place. I was going to ask my second question to the Social Democrats and Fredrik Lundh Sammeli. It is not really a political issue, but rather a matter of assessment. As I said in my speech, one of the reasons why we Christian Democrats are very sceptical about this bill is that it runs the risk of giving false hopes to a vulnerable group. We base this on the fact that we see big questions about the fact that these people will actually have the opportunity to study and then get a job, and that when one looks at the study results historically, a number of questions are whether a particularly large proportion will be able to do this according to the conditions. A very large proportion of these people are still in language introduction and so on after several years. My specific question is therefore: how much of this group of 9 000 people estimates Fredrik Lundh Sammeli will be able to stay long-term with this proposal?
i-74ae51410f0d616e-923	Mr President, I would like to I will disappoint Aron Courage. I will not guess in this Chamber. What I think is important is that we relate to reality and ensure that these people have the right to a residence permit linked to studies. An important part of the proposal to highlight is also the professional package, which provides a broader opportunity for studies. I think that false hopes can also be linked to the Christian Democrats, who have been out saying that the important thing is to introduce extraordinary or particularly painful reasons. It gives the impression that it would change the conditions for these young people, that this would be another model for giving them an opportunity to stay. We both know that that choice would not lead to a solution for these young people. The reasonable thing is to provide an opportunity to link up with studies and to change the secondary school teams in a good way so that we can meet those who are in a worse position. I think that is a responsible policy.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-927	Mr President, I would like to This bill means that people will have an opportunity to stay in Sweden if they sign up for upper secondary school. They will then be granted a temporary residence permit. There are rules for this residence permit to be extended. The report says this: anyone who has been granted a temporary residence permit for studies should be able to obtain a new residence permit under the existing legal framework when the grace period expires after 13 months. A prerequisite then is that the person is studying. A few lines down it says: However, the government does not propose any requirement for the presentation of study activity. This is a little messy. In my world, it's the same thing-- if you're studying, you have to be able to reasonably account for it. This is my first question to Fredrik Lundh Sammeli : How can you prove that you are studying if you do not have to report this? If you do not have any requirements to achieve specific results but will show that you are going to study, I assume that what remains is that students' presence in the lessons is recorded. Then the next question will be to Fredrik Lundh Sammeli : Is there anyone other than a teacher and a school who will register the student's presence? The third question is a supplementary question: how much presence do you need to study with this proposal? If you have 20 percent absence, are you studying or not? Fredrik Lundh Sammeli will be happy to answer that. If you have 50 percent absence, are you considered to be a student or not?
i-74ae51410f0d616e-932	Mr President, I would like to What we have to consider is a legislative proposal to be able to have new residence permits linked to studies on the basis of the Upper Secondary Education Act. The natural thing is that these young people are studying. That's what this opportunity is about. Then there is an opportunity to combine studies with jobs. How the proportion or percentage falls out is not something that I am going to respond to here or give me a picture of, but it is clear in the legal product that one should be able to make that combination. Nevertheless, I think it would be more honest if you said that you are voting against this product because you do not want these young people to have a new residence permit. Nevertheless, as I said in a previous change of line, I can be surprised at the position of the bourgeoisie and the Liberals on the issue. How can this be so incredibly controversial when, at the same time, you have been introducing track changes for many years? As far as the Liberals are concerned, perhaps the most important thing is that less than a year ago Fredrik Malm's party leader thundered in the Swedish media to stop the expulsions to Afghanistan. There, the leader of the party seized into a model where we know that politics should not govern government.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-936	Mr President, I would like to This is amazing. I asked a simple question, but I didn't get an answer. I didn't ask about a change of track or the one that combines study with work. I asked a very simple question: How can a person report that he or she is studying if he or she clearly writes that it does not need to be reported? That's my first question. My second question is: If this is to be reported by presence, does Fredrik Lundh Sammeli see that there is someone other than the Vice-Chancellor and teacher who will register this presence? The third question is reasonable: How much absenteeism can one have? It is reasonable that Fredrik Lundh Sammeli, who was chairman of the committee dealing with migration issues and who represents the party and government that has tabled the bill, can answer these questions. In the end, Mr President, this means that in practice the government transfers and delegates decisions on asylum matters to teachers and principals. Regardless of how low the requirements are, one must ultimately study in order to get a renewed residence permit, and this must ultimately be approved by teachers and principals. This means that you are moving over what the Migration Board is going to decide on and place an ethical and moral burden on teachers and principals that they are neither trained to handle nor that I think they want to handle. I think they want to teach and not end up in moral dilemmas, which means that if they state that a person has not reached the requirements now for studying – Fredrik Lundh Sammeli should know – they will contribute to the person perhaps being deported from Sweden. I would like answers to my questions and not answers to a lot of questions that I have not asked.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-943	Mr President, I would like to This is a development of the Upper Secondary Education Act. My picture is that it works very well. Teachers and principals have no mission other than what they basically have, that is, to teach children and young people what they should learn at school. Here we give a limited group new opportunities for residence permits linked to studies, and then studies are the focus of what to do. Then there is an opportunity to combine studies with jobs, and that is because there is a reality where some are already in work. But studies are the reason for residence permits, and that is what should be the focus. This is a situation that we already have today, linked to the High School Act, and which works. I do not therefore see the danger that Fredrik Malm sees. Nor do I think that the fate of these young people should be determined by the protection of teachers and principals. Here, instead, we have legislation that we propose and that provides the opportunity for studies. That's the focus, and that's what this group needs. Then Malm will be happy to come back on another occasion and explain Björklund's position, because it is completely unserious to play solo on one issue and say that this needs to be resolved but then, when we come to a concrete solution, say no. I can only say that there are more liberals on the list of speakers and that I look forward to perhaps hearing something other than a repetition of this attitude from the Liberals. I do not believe that this is the only line that prevails.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-947	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the Government's proposal Extra amending budget for 2018 – New residence permit. It contains a temporary amendment of the law to deal with a great injustice that has affected unaccompanied minors who have fled to Sweden. The law can give up to 9 000 unaccompanied young people a new chance to stay in Sweden. It is very important to all those concerned who are now very concerned about the future. I am very grateful that it also seems to have a majority in Parliament. In 2015, an enormous number of people escaped to Sweden. 163 000 people applied for asylum, of which some 35 000 were unaccompanied minors. Many had fled the Eritrean dictatorship and from wars and conflicts in Somalia, Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan. At all times, children have been forced to flee war alone – during the Second World War, for example, Sweden received 70 000 Finnish refugee children. Many of the children who came to Sweden in 2015 have Afghan citizenship but have grown up as undocumented in Iran. Afghanistan has been a war-torn country for over 30 years. The Taliban control large parts of the country, and IS and other military groups increase their presence. The security situation is very difficult. Constant suicide attacks are a constant concern. Iran has also tightened its policy against Afghan refugees living there, and many are forced to return to Afghanistan from there as well. Young men can have the choice to either return to Afghanistan or fight in the Iranian army against IS in Syria. Not least because of the tough situation in Iran and the threat of being forced to return to war Afghanistan, many young unaccompanied Afghans came to Sweden in 2015. When Sweden temporarily tightened migration policy, the Green Party negotiated an exception to the legislation: Those who came by 24 November 2015 and were children or families with children would not be tried against the new, temporarily more restrictive, migration legislation but would continue to be tried against the ordinary Aliens Act. This meant that they would continue to receive a permanent residence permit and would have a full right to family reunification. We saw this as particularly important for the group of unaccompanied minors, who are often allowed to stay because they are deemed to be more than adults to be dependent on protection or because they are children who do not have an orderly reception in their home country. If they were not to receive permanent residence without a temporary residence permit, they would be at risk of being over 18 years old in an extension application after 13 months and therefore no longer be considered to be in need of protection – and could therefore be forced to leave Sweden. To avoid such a situation, we saw the exception for children as absolutely necessary. In the summer following, the Migration Board made a change of practice that meant that this exception was eliminated for this particular group. Those children between the ages of 16 and 18 who lacked an orderly reception in their home country were now to be granted temporary residence permits and then expelled on the 18th anniversary. Instead, we began to negotiate the so - called high school law. It means that, instead of being expelled on the 18th anniversary, this group would be granted a residence permit to complete high school and then have six months to establish itself on the labour market and, if so, stay permanently. This law came into force a year ago, but unfortunately it did not solve the whole issue. The processing hours ran and became extremely long. Many youths have had to wait years to get their first decision on whether or not to stay. Many also got their decisions after they became 18 and were therefore not covered by the Upper Secondary Education Act. Since so many were 16 - 17 years old when they arrived, many were over 18 years old during the long waiting period, and then they were in a much worse position when their asylum applications were settled. Medical age assessments were also made several years after they arrived in Sweden, when they were several years older. We have now changed this order, and that is a good thing. Today, age assessments are made at the beginning and not at the end of an asylum process. As a result, many thousands of young people were rejected. It was young people who lived in Sweden for several years and made friends, lived in family homes, became part of Swedish families, went to school here for several years, learned Swedish and engaged in associations and sports. In addition, they were not allowed to stay in their accommodations when they turned 18, but they were uprooted and sent to the Finnish Immigration Service's housing facilities in some other part of the country, where they might not know anyone, and were allowed to go to a completely new school. When we noticed that this development was underway, we needed to act. We negotiated efforts in the state budget to stop the relocations and to give municipalities the opportunity to allow young people to stay where they have rooted, as well as efforts to enable young people to start a national programme even though they were over 18 years old and were still in the asylum process. We saw the risk of widespread mental illness and homelessness and made the changes we could already make in the autumn budget to make it easier for young people during this time. We also began to fight for a change of law that would also give them a new residence permit. In November last year, the government was finally able to present the agreement on the new Unilever Act. Up to 9 000 young people are covered by the bill. Those who
i-74ae51410f0d616e-956	中 has been waiting for 15 months or more for its first decision, i.e. longer than the EU's maximum limit 中 has been 18 years of age during the extremely long processing period 中 has studied and wants to continue to study will be granted a residence permit to complete upper secondary school, either a national programme or a shorter professional package that does not require upper secondary school qualifications. They will also be able to continue for a total of 26 months on introductory programmes if they do not currently have upper secondary school qualifications. After completion of the studies, they will have six months to establish themselves in the labour market. If they get a job, they also get a permanent residence permit, and during their studies they will be able to work in parallel with their studies. The legislation means a great deal to those concerned. They go from feeling a constant fear of being expelled to one of the world's most dangerous countries, which, at regular intervals – most recently today – suffer new suicide attacks involving many civilian victims, to being able to focus on the future here. They can focus on school and seriously start their life here in security and freedom. Not all parties support this proposal. The Liberals are against, despite the fact that Jan Björklund only last summer went out and demanded that all expulsions to Afghanistan be stopped. The Christian Democrats, who have a long history of protecting society's most vulnerable, also do not want to vote in favour. The Moderates repeat the mantra that a no is a no but have no answer as to how these mass demonstrations would take place in practice, should this group not be allowed to stay. How can you say no to letting these young people, who have already entered our society, go to school, learn Swedish and many times have been able to create strong networks in Sweden and become part of Swedish families, a new chance to stay? Why do you say no to counteract the emergence of a shadow society, in which young people are left in the hands of criminals and forced into homelessness and vulnerability? Why do you say no to instead let them study and get the chance to get a job, stay in Sweden and contribute to our society? This proposal is about humanity. But it is also a proposal about taking political responsibility. What we are doing now is taking responsibility for keeping our promises. The political intention has been clear: this is a group we want to protect and provide security for. When the Parliament decided on the Temporary Limitations Act in 2016, the children and families with children who came last when the Act was presented were excluded. The Moderates, Liberals and Christian Democrats also supported this. Because of the long processing times, we now need to take political responsibility to ensure that what Parliament promised these young people is also implemented. They shall not be affected by the fact that Swedish authorities have not had the ability to process their applications in time. Mr President, I would like to Letting young people stay is the right thing to do. It is an important step for a more humane society and a decisive step for young people's right to a life of freedom. I support the report.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-966	Mr President, I would like to We are debating today the proposal which is essentially the result of the government's building up in recent years an incalculable and poorly worked-out legal framework in the area of migration. During the autumn of 2015, up to 10,000 asylum seekers came to Sweden every week. Our systems are not designed to accommodate so many people in such a short time. The situation needed to be addressed, and there was a strong political will to find solutions. Therefore, the Alliance and the Government agreed on several major changes in migration and integration policy. However, just a few weeks after we did so, the government chose to go much further in a restrictive direction by presenting a new temporary asylum law at the minimum level of the European Union. The law was strongly criticised by almost all consultation bodies, including the Law Council, and imposed restrictions on migration policy which has had major consequences for people on the run. In addition, the law has hit many unaccompanied youths severely. Long processing times combined with a change in legislation have resulted in many having received an expulsion decision instead of a residence permit. If their cases had been dealt with while they were still underage and on the basis of the conditions in which they came, the situation would have been different. This is about young people who have been here for years now. They have learned Swedish and become part of our society. In many cases they have received great support from individuals, schools, churches and sports associations, who have set up to give them a new community and a safer life here in Sweden. We in the Center Party have been putting forward various proposals for a long time to resolve the situation of the young people affected. We have pointed out that the unaccompanied minors who were minors when they arrived and who have been affected by lengthy processing times should be given a new chance. The legislative proposal that the government finally chose to put forward and which we are debating today is complex and ill-designed. It contains a wide range of shortcomings and will lead to several negative consequences. We do not deny this. This is not basically the path that we in the Center Party would have chosen. At the same time, this is the only option now on the table. In the choice between this proposal and no solution at all, we in the Center Party choose to stand by what we have said and protect those who were actually minors when they arrived. We will therefore let the Government's proposals go through. These people are now given a chance to study and work for a few years, provided that they have not committed crimes and that they are going through the security clearance that will be carried out. If they find permanent jobs, they can stay. At the same time, we in the Center Party have made it clear that there is a need for a proper shift in migration policy. This is the fourth temporary law in this area in just two years. All parties in the Riksdag have at some point chosen to depart from the principle of predictable legislation in the area of migration, but now temporary laws must be brought to an end. We cannot continue to vote with hopeful majorities here in Parliament. It is important that we achieve a long-term approach to migration policy. When the temporary law expires as early as next year, we must have a new cross-block agreement in place. For us, a few things are particularly important. One is that we must continue to protect the right of asylum. Sweden will give people the opportunity to apply for asylum according to the international conventions we have signed. Starting to renegotiate conventions in this situation is very risky. This does not mean that all people seeking asylum in Sweden should be allowed to stay here, but those who are deemed to have protection reasons must be protected somewhere. At the same time, we need to find ways to switch to legal routes and prioritise the most vulnerable via the quota refugee system. We think it's important to keep families together. Children should not be separated from their parents. And we think it is important to have valves in the system – such as special and particularly distressing circumstances and otherwise needing protection. We also need to speed up the asylum process. The long waiting periods of recent years have brought great human suffering, while at the same time reducing integration and costing extremely much money. If an initial assessment for asylum reasons is carried out at an earlier stage, it is possible either to start establishment more quickly or to prepare for return. Language education and compulsory social inclusion need to start from day one for those people who, after a first assessment for asylum reasons, are considered to have a good chance of staying. It is about an introduction to the language, how Swedish society works and what laws and rules apply in Sweden. In addition, experience and skills need to be mapped out earlier, so that the labour market can enter more quickly and municipalities have better opportunities to contribute to integration. We also need to show more clearly that we believe in the ability of people who come here, but also that we have expectations of making an effort to learn the language and find ways to support ourselves. At the same time, it is high time for us politicians to implement the major reforms needed to make it easier to enter the labour market. These things are closely linked. A new migration agreement based on these principles is necessary both for Swedish society and for the people fleeing here. Here we all have a shared responsibility to find sustainable and long-term solutions. However, we in the Center Party also believe that we currently have a responsibility to find a solution for the unaccompanied young people who have been put at risk because of the fluctuations in migration policy in recent years. To do nothing at all is, in our view, a far worse option. Having said that, I am in favour of the committee's proposal and refer to the Centre Party's special opinion in this area.
i-JGfHmgMcMSA4ZaFfQKj1Np	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Johanna Jönsson, for your speech. I find this very interesting. Ever since autumn, at least, and throughout this process, it has been clear from the Center Party that the only thing you really want, although you talk about taking responsibility, is not to take responsibility. It would like to point out that it is a bad proposal, and it highlights its shortcomings. At the same time, they have not wanted to negotiate with the government or present a clear alternative proposal – a clear follow-up motion that presents what they themselves wanted to do for change. I therefore have a very brief and simple question for Johanna Jönsson and the Center Party: If you had had the power to decide, what would the law look like? You think the proposal is bad, but you still want to support it. What would you like on the table?
i-74ae51410f0d616e-984	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Paula Bieler, for the question! We already presented our proposal for a solution this summer. In this situation, when the trials of these people were not yet completed, it was primarily a matter of re-establishing the concept of, particularly distressing circumstances. It had solved the situation for several of them. However, in the situation where we are now, where they have already been tried, it is not that that can solve the situation. We were out early demanding broad discussions on this issue on the basis that the trials were still open. We also received signals from the government that this would happen, but then nothing happened. Instead, it was just before Christmas that a proposal was made, which did not seem very ready, but which still locked itself in a clear position. This has meant that the scope for us to come up with an alternative proposal has been very small. Instead, what we did was to talk about what parts of the proposal were then on the table that we felt needed to be changed. It was about seeing a problem with people who were obviously over 18 years old but said they were younger to be included in the proposal. The proposal has been slightly adjusted since then. We also said that it was very bad that they would have no opportunity to work. There too, the proposal has been adjusted so that they now have an opportunity to work and can also take part in vocational training. In addition, we pointed out that the deadlines that were set were unfair in several ways, for example, that people who have come together but have received their applications registered on different days should not be assessed in the same way. There too an adjustment has been made. We have therefore been chosen to meet in parts of the proposal. However, we have tried to be constructive in order to come up with a solution that a majority can support.
i-QPKj3dev4FsqmnBSKibUnW	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Johanna Jönsson, for your answer. I note that what we really wanted to do was to open up to even more, as many people as possible, to stay. Johanna Jönsson mentioned that it was previously a problem that those who were obviously over 18 years old were included. Yes, this has been adjusted, but only barely. I've done a quick search and checked what the Center Party said in December when the bill came. Rather, then, emphasis was placed on being judged according to the age you had when you arrived or as you stated when you arrived. It is stated on your website to this day that this was the first point. No clear counter-proposals have yet been put forward with regard to what is considered to be bad and should be addressed. It is recognised that this is a poor piece of legislation, but it is nevertheless supported. It is referred, like the other parties – now we got into this anyway – that it would be about people who were children when they came although it does not. I can also tell Fredrik Lundh Sammeli that I am not talking about the whole group of 35 000, but about the 7 000 of the 9 000 who have had their age written down. It is not that they are deemed to have grown older in the past, but that they are actually adults. They would not have been given a different assessment if decisions had been taken more quickly. The Migration Agency has been clear about this, even though Fredrik Lundh Sammeli shakes his head. There are clear quotes from the Migration Board that can be cited. Had they been assessed within the 15 months, very few of these 7 000 who have had their age recorded would have received a different assessment. If the Centre Party thinks that this is a bad proposal but has not negotiated it or expressed more criticism than some contributions to the media, and now it believes that it can, after all, agree to it, how do it intend to work then? What reasons are there for supporting a party that does not want to take responsibility but just wants to blame others?
i-74ae51410f0d616e-994	Mr President, I would like to I would say that it is we who take responsibility in this situation. I have still not seen anything from the Swedish Democrats showing how to deal with these thousands of people who are in this country and have built their networks here. They'll stay here whether you like it or not. Very few expulsions to Afghanistan are carried out. How do you want to deal with this situation? You have not come up with any concrete solutions to this. I have had several debates with your representatives, and no one has been able to tell us how to do so. Instead, you want to see a growing shadow society, where this vulture does not get a chance to enter society at all but is referred to exclusion with a risk of crime and the like. We are the ones who take responsibility for the reality here, the situation we find ourselves in. Let me mention this with the fact that people were not minors when they arrived. We both know that some were minors, but others were not. What we need to decide on here is whether we protect those who were actually minors, as we do, or rather, at the expense of those who were minors, we want to punish those who stated a wrong age. There we have different positions, quite simply. There's nothing else to say. I believe that we have landed correctly. I think that society has a special responsibility for children and minors, although long processing times have made them older. That this will allow some who have lied to come along with it is unfortunate to me, but there is no way to clearly distinguish these two groups. We have taken a stand to give these people a new opportunity to stay, study and work and thus also pay back to society for the years they have now been here and have already begun to establish themselves. We also think it is important that all the Swedish citizens and others who have supported them have been there and given a community to these young people now get some peace in their lives and can continue to provide support. That is our position. Paula Bieler and I disagree on this issue.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-999	Mr President, I would like to Hey, hey, hey, I've held my 16-year-old daughter today while she inconsolably cries. She trembles in her body and her voice hacks when she tells me about the horrible things she's heard her boyfriend say. My daughter's boyfriend is from Afghanistan, and my daughter is inconsolable because she has helped him to write an application for enforcement obstacles, a final attempt to stay in Sweden and get covered by the new law. She weeps because she has learned in detail about the atrocities he has suffered. All Saturday night he's been lying in her arms and crying, and then she's come to my house and she's cried. I have never felt as powerless as I am now, and so I turn to you. You are one of those who will vote in favour of or against the bill on new residence permits for certain unaccompanied young people. What kind of society would we be if our politicians didn't help the weak? Individuals will always be able to be selfish, but it is politicians who have to stand for morally right decisions. I therefore ask you to vote in favour of the proposal, which is his only hope. ..................................................... This quote comes from an email that came last night from a desperate father and that I have been allowed to quote. It is only the latest in the series of emails that has come during the three years I have been sitting here in the fine room of democracy, the Swedish Parliament, and which has been about the young people who are affected by what we are debating today. The whole time I have been a Member, this has also been an issue that has been constantly on the agenda. Mr President, I would like to I shall be voting in favour of the Government's proposal, and I am in favour of the follow-up motion I have written, together with two of my fellow Members, motion 4173. Nina Lundström will talk more about this exercise in her speech. In other words, I do not support the policy of the Liberals on this issue. My commitment to migration issues is long lasting. I have not supported the migration laws from 2016 or the ID requirements. However, I accepted the migration agreement that six parties entered into in autumn 2015 and that the government soon afterwards, at a press conference, abandoned. I voted in favour of the amnesty which was on the table recently, not because it was the best solution, but because it was a solution. As legislators in the Riksdag, you have a personal responsibility when you sit in front of the buttons and have to vote. Being elected means taking personal responsibility for the decisions you make that affect people's lives. I have full respect for the fact that you can land in different conclusions and act accordingly. This is my way, not because it's easy, but because I think it's right. I joined what was then called the People's Party because it was the party I agreed with most and because it was the party that obviously stood up for human rights. It was a party that proudly displayed a election poster from 1936, when they stood up to both Nazism and Communism. It was a party that was at the forefront of an amnesty earlier. We Liberals are rightly proud of our 1936 popular party poster. But I cannot help but wonder what we will be proud of in the future when we look back at what we are doing today. Extreme times lead to extreme decisions. We saw it in the 90s, when boat refugees came to Gotland via Russia and the Balkans. The alarm clocks went off, just like now. There would be 2 million refugees. How would Sweden manage this? No one knows, because the borders were closed. No one knows, because of course 2 million refugees did not come to Sweden. Nor did we have an invasion of social tourism when the EU was enlarged, as the then Prime Minister, Göran Persson, warned against. Unfortunately, this debate often lacks perspective on human suffering. The debate has been vulgarized by the painting of collective characteristics and a "we-and-de-think", where groups have been set against groups. I have heard the expression 9 000 Afghans or 9 000 men without asylum reasons far too many times now. Each of these is an individual, and they deserve to be spoken about as individuals. The 16-year-old girl's boyfriend is one of them. And I can list the names of several of those who were here in Parliament about a year ago and played a performance that very many Members were watching. It was a performance that was about exactly what it was called: We have walked a long way... We have dared everything... It was a performance that touched deeply, and there were few eyes that were dry afterwards. Mr President, I would like to Let me make a few points that are constantly coming back to the debate, as is the case today. Firstly, what is proposed is not a decision on asylum after rejection. The asylum trial is still in place. Secondly, it is a question of a 'no' being a 'no'. Rethinking the refusal of asylum application and granting residence permits on a different basis is already taking place today. This applies, on the one hand, to those who find work and, on the other, to those who form a family during the processing period. And all parties – it should be said – do not actually think that a yes should always be a yes, but it can be conditional. Even a citizenship should be able to be withdrawn. At the same time, you're hard on a no being a no. Furthermore, laws are for people, not the other way around. Retrospectively changing legislation when existing rules strike in a way that politicians have not wanted is not uncommon in other areas, provided it is to the greater benefit of the individual. To change laws retroactively for the worse is not done, except in June almost exactly two years ago when a press conference also arbitrarily became a date to relate to. Then there is the injustice that some should be allowed to remain. The fact that a situation is better for some individuals while the situation is the same for others can certainly be perceived as unfair. But it's not better for everyone to be in bad shape than for some to be better off. It is a liberal basic principle. It's the same argument that we don't think it's a problem that some people are rich. The problem is that some people are poor. Asylum is also not the only basis for residence permits. The best way to maintain respect for the right to asylum is to be clear that this proposal is not about asylum, nor is it about amnesty. Then there are the reasons for asylum. I stand up for the right of asylum – it has almost become a mantra for many when they say why they want to vote against this proposal. However, it is not so simple that the unaccompanied minors from Afghanistan lack asylum reasons. On the other hand, in the absence of evidence, it is assessed that the asylum seeker is not believed. The asylum reasons are not proven. It's not the same as there aren't any. This is where rhetoric leads wrong. My criticism has always been about the legal process: slow handling, age assessments, shortcomings in interpreters and so on. This proposal is definitely flawed. But in the absence of a better proposal, this is better than the current situation. The Law Council has made criticisms of the bill. This is what the Law Council has done in other contexts, even under the alliance government, and then the criticism of the Law Council has not hindered legislation. Some examples in the near future are the consent legislation, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which we hopefully clubs through next week, and, not to forget, the temporary migration laws of 2016. Mr President, I would like to The removal of extreme and particularly distressing circumstances and the need for protection of other persons hit individuals hard, for these were reasons to be applied when expulsion involves a direct or serious risk to life and health, not least for children with severe diseases. But the provision was also used when children for a very long time have been legal in Sweden and adapted. At least that was the intention when this was extended in 2014. I rejoiced then, because I thought that many of the children born and raised in Sweden would finally be granted a residence permit. That's not what happened. The demands for ID documents hit the children who come alone to Sweden because they often lack ID documents. The fact that adults claim to be under 18 in order to obtain asylum goes without saying, but it is not to the extent that the debate makes reference at times. The fact that many people have turned 18 after three years in Sweden is not surprising. But there is also more to this, because from the perspective of children's rights, it is important that children are not at risk of being treated as adults. Nevertheless, it has rather been the opposite: that adults should not be treated as children. There is a difference between assuming that children should not be placed with adults and assuming that adults should not be placed with children. The medical age assessments used have rightly been criticised for being insecure. Yet age has become so incredibly important and crucial in the decision-making process. It was said that we would create a breathing room, and that is why we adopted new laws. We'd be better equipped. We would take a break to better meet the challenges we faced. I was skeptical then. I'm skeptical now-- critical might be a better word. Those who need a break are those who are on the run. That's what a refugee break should mean. What, then, have the closed borders and tough rules produced? Have we prepared ourselves? Do we have a system that would now withstand new pressures? No, we do not, because it is not such proposals that are put forward. The proposals put forward are all about continuing to ensure that people do not come here. There's a need for more teachers. Yes, but then take advantage of the expertise that comes to Sweden! Make it possible to validate at workplaces! Connect SFI with internships in schools! Use the academics who come here after all! We should never defend a system for the sake of the system or put it in front of people. For many years we have been talking about a doctor's deficiency, while we have almost the most doctors per capita in the world. And the fact that social services are on their knees is more about the great demands for documentation than about the actual number of people you help. Today, a social security secretary spends about 15 minutes a day talking to clients. Is it really the right priority? Strong action is needed to cope with the situation of the world, Europe and Sweden. The war in Syria must, of course, be brought to an end. IS has to be stopped. The European Union must function in the way it was intended, with a shared responsibility. And Sweden needs to review rigid regulations to cope with being a humanitarian superpower even when we are being put to the test. It is not for politicians to make assessments for protection reasons, but it is the responsibility of politicians to pass laws that make expulsion decisions in line with international law. Afghanistan is more dangerous now than it has been for many years. It's not just Afghanistan. But when it comes to Afghanistan, the state itself and the UN say that civilians can no longer be guaranteed protection. The Swedish Ministry of Foreign Affairs describes torture, imprisonment and perpetrators who rely on impunity. Contrary to what many believe, young men are a group that is particularly exposed to risks. It is precisely young men who are seen as a threat in conflicts or who are recruited to fight and who are killed if they refuse to be recruited. We have also seen several suicides as a result of the policy being pursued – a policy that has openly aimed at making life so difficult for asylum seekers here that it discourages others from coming here. And it is a policy that you actually want to tighten up even more. We can look back on the refugee amnesty in 2005 and remember how restrictive policies then created apathy among children and how politicians finally realised the seriousness. Twelve years later, youths choose to take their lives before the risk of expulsion. But the political reaction has been non-existent. And when a proposal finally comes, many choose to say no. In the Social Affairs Committee of the Riksdag, we have been informed several times, often on my own initiative, about how mental illness is spreading among refugees in general and children in particular – and most of all among those who have come alone. It's self-harm behavior. It's anxiety. It's suicide. That's worry. It's suicide attempt. Yeah, it's a long list. That should call for reflection. In addition to the concern about the asylum process itself and of course the uncertain age assessments, which have almost been likened to a lottery, there are many who talk about persistent break-ups and insecurity in the housing situation. The situation we have now is mainly about those who have turned 18 or who have been written up in age and then get rid of housing, good man and other support efforts, many times at extremely short notice. Every day when I go online, I am greeted by posts where beds are sought for young people around Sweden. Many people have made heroic efforts and opened up their homes. I am absolutely convinced that it has played a crucial role in preventing an even larger shadow society with homeless young people whose only chance of survival is to commit crimes or prostitute themselves. At the same time, this needs to be problematized. If it had been about just as many young girls, I think society would have looked at this differently. I find it hard to believe that, for example, the municipalities had acted in the same way and moved young girls to an adult home or just let them fend for themselves. They had seen the vulnerability in a different way. The fact that young men and boys can be just as vulnerable is not so many who think about it. The policy should not make assessments for protection reasons, but it is the policy's responsibility to give the relevant authorities the right task and the right conditions. For example, the Liberals have fought for LSS and assistance and questioned both Försäkringskassan's assessments and the mission of the government. Even when it comes to Transportstyrelsen was severely criticized. But for some reason, those who question the Migration Agency are told that it would mean that they want the system back where politicians decided on asylum. Then why isn't the same thing said about LSS and assistance? Is the answer as simple as it is about picking simple political points? I sincerely hope that is not the case. Many people are now putting their hopes in today's debate and the decision that we are going to take on Thursday. No, it's not a great suggestion. That's not even a good idea. It's got a lot of holes. But it's a suggestion. However, my concern is that, given how bad many people have the measure of getting a residence permit themselves while others have not received it, those who will now be covered will crash when they see their friends being rejected for having come a day too late or being told a day too soon. In order not to give up more, I would have preferred to have seen another solution. It would have been easier to simply grant a residence permit both from a socio-economic and a human perspective. However, this is the proposal we have to take a position on, and I will vote in favour of it. At the same time, however, we must build up a system that will last, and that is why I and my fellow Members have been exercising. Mr President, I would like to I chose to engage politically in 2005, the same year as the waves in the discussion on refugee policy and amnesty last went high. The Foreigners' Board was to be closed, for example because a united parliament had seen that there were major shortcomings in the examination of asylum matters. Now we write 2018, and the waves have been high for several years – in the social debate, here in Parliament and not least on the Mediterranean. The email last night from a miserable father is one of thousands of descriptions of what reality looks like. He and many others around these youths also suffer terribly badly. It is family homes and good men, teachers and coaches, boyfriends, girlfriends and friends and all those who voluntarily and without compensation have opened the door to give shelter to a fellow human being. Many of them are in the gallery today. The question is how long they will last and what happens when they no longer do. To all of you, I would like to express my sincere and sincere thanks. I would like to express my sincere thanks to all those who have engaged themselves in various ways – all those I have listed and many others. The unaccompanied youth have been deprived of their hope of security. Many now see only three options: to return to your worst nightmare, to live paperless in yet another country or to take your own life. This is what the proposal is about. I have said it before, and I say it again: When the systems fall, it is the human being we should protect, the individual – not the systems.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-1039	Mr President, I would like to When we talked about the refugee crisis in the summer of 2015, we talked about the refugee crisis, about the children washed up on the shores of the Mediterranean. In October 2015, it was still the perspective of the fugitives that aroused empathy and commitment. Food, blankets, and clothing were collected for those who walked barefoot over mountains and slept on the ground when the first early snow fell over the Balkans. Then the perspective was reversed. More and more often, the situation in Sweden marked the debate. For those forced to flee from war, persecution or poverty, the crisis continues unabated. Every three seconds another person is forced to leave his home. Tick tock, tick tock, tick tock. Each other is a child. Sweden cannot accept everyone. It has never been a question of that either. But instead of asking ourselves what we can't, we should ask ourselves what we can. Ulf Nilsson tells in a book about his son Anders, who on the holiday beach becomes seated and throws back flushed shells into the sea. He writes: There were a hundred shells on a metre, and the beach was a mile, so I wanted to make him realize the futility. I said: It's nice, but what do you think it matters that you throw back a seashell or two? At first, he just looked at me. He had a seashell in his hand. Slowly he reached up to me and said, "For this one." For this one, it matters. Mr President, I would like to Sweden alone cannot give hope for the future to every one of the women, men and children who have been forced to leave their home, all those who feel the years run away as they trample around in the mud of the refugee camp, all those who struggle for jobs and drinking water in overpopulated shantytowns or all those who in desperation and despair in the hope of a future have been tricked into sending their children away. If we are to save everyone, we must stop wars, stop persecution, stop poverty and stop environmental disasters. And we have to take help from each other. In the Christian Democrats' principle programme, we put it this way: a generous and humane refugee policy can best be promoted in Sweden by working with other states. Therefore, the EU Member States should have a common and generous refugee policy, which takes into account people's protection needs and where humanitarian reasons weigh heavily. ... The child perspective should always be included in migration matters. For those seeking asylum in Sweden, the whole process must be designed in such a way that legal certainty is guaranteed to the individual. Resources for the reception of refugees and for the investigation of their situation shall be sufficient to ensure short processing times, legal certainty and effective management. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to Those words seem to remove the reality that exists both in the world and in Sweden today. We were not prepared for the large number of people who came via the Mediterranean in 2015 – over 1 million. At the end of October 2015, 8 800 refugees a day arrived in Greece via the Mediterranean Sea. Among them were the people who are the subject of the debate today. They had left their mother and father, or the parents had been taken away from them. They had survived walking through the mountain massif and sought comfort from others who were in the same situation. They had tried to protect each other from abuse and to defend themselves against the exploitation of the smugglers. They were among those who managed to get up through Europe via the Balkan route before the barbed wire was rolled out and the borders closed. They met people along the way who made the journey a little bit further and kept the hope up. But they also met people who taught them to be on guard and not trust anyone. For what else is there to learn from the police who plunder or the representatives of the power who skim on the powerless? They are among the 35,369 unaccompanied asylum seekers registered in Sweden that year. They believed that they had reached the end of the journey and could build a hope for a future. But every day their hope has been dashed by despair, which, for some, after months and years of waiting, has been lost in hopelessness. We cannot know that each of the young people who came and whom these proposals deal with were children on the day they came here. But we can be sure that each of them has been deprived of their childhood. Almost everyone has it in common that they risk being deported to a country they do not even know, because they have grown up on the run. In two weeks' time, we will be taking a decision here in Parliament to make the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law. We shall do so in order to strengthen the legal position of children and to improve our ability as a State to live up to the commitments we have towards each of the children in the territory of our State and whose rights we are obliged to defend. But the rights are already in force. The responsibility is already ours, and we have broken. We have not managed to live up to our own high ambitions to give a legal test to everyone within a reasonable time. For those who were children the day the escape took them to our country, it may have made the whole difference. It is not reasonable for young people whose childhood has been spent on the run to pay the price for our shortcomings. In the bill submitted by the government, the individual date plays a role. Opportunities are given to those who managed to have their asylum application registered before 24 November, but not for those who moved the same route, met the same dangers, but got the stamp on 25. It does not create legal certainty. The criticism from the Law Council has been strong, and it is not difficult to understand that criticism. The way in which the government has dealt with the refugee issue throughout this parliamentary term certainly deserves criticism. The Council's criticism is not new either. In December 2015, when the government decided on ID controls on almost non-existent basis, it was rejected by the Law Council, which also called the procedure extremely serious. In April 2016, the Swedish Law Council was to issue an opinion on the Temporary Act aimed at reducing the number of asylum seekers to Sweden. It was one month after the EU's agreement with Turkey had entered into force, the escape route via Greece almost stopped and the number of asylum seekers decreased from well over 1 000 a day to 500 a week. There, the Law Council strongly criticised the lack of analysis of the legislative proposal and the fact that it was not possible to assess whether the legislative amendments could even fulfil the objective. When legislation is handled recklessly and in violation of fundamental principles, the consequences are then. Instead of ill-prepared decisions and panic attacks, we should have used haste and determination to strengthen our institutions even more, equipped schools and social services even more, and given the Migration Agency and municipalities even better conditions. We should have taken even more advantage of all the voluntary forces that have made and are still making efforts every day to enable those who have come to our country to become part of us. When so many people arrive in such a short time, it costs. It pushes our powers to the limit. Mistakes happen. People get hurt. The systems are cracking. But we'll rebuild them. We learn and try to do better. We patch and cook. At least that should be our ambition. Sweden is under strain. It is about welcoming new people from other cultures who carry wounds and traumas, with values that sometimes clash and with needs that have to be met. It will continue to require its effort. It will not be smooth. But it's not for our sake that we do it. It's not for the mayor. It's for our neighbor. When Parliament votes on the Government proposal on Thursday, I will support it. The Christian Democrats' proposal contains important elements that the government's proposal lacks to reintroduce the possibility of residence permits for special or exceptional reasons and on the right to family reunification. However, voting on that proposal against the government's proposal would not change the law in those parts. We will continue to stand up for the right of asylum but also the right to grant protection on other grounds, which has long been the cornerstone of Swedish migration legislation. This concerns the right of those seeking protection from armed conflict and internal contradictions. We have not been able to give a fair trial in a reasonable time. It is we who have failed, not the right of asylum. It will stand firm even if we give a new chance to the young people who have suffered from our inability. The choice therefore stands between voting on a proposal that contains elements that are absolutely crucial for people if they are implemented but which, with the vote, do not become a reality and voting on a proposal that is directly crucial for individuals whether they have a chance of a future in our country or not. I choose to vote in favour of what will make a difference. The same explanation of vote applies to Annika Eclund, who is unable to take part in the debate today. We can't save everyone, but we have a choice. Right now it is the election of the young people who began their flight as boys and who are right here and now in our country. We can choose to give them a future, or we can choose not to. Madam President, I would like I can't choose not to.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-1066	Madam President, I would like My post will be somewhat longer than announced. The Parliament is a place of democracy in Sweden. We are quite few allowed to be here in the service of democracy for some time, always giving our maiden speeches and then our last speech in this House, perhaps a point number such as my speech is today. I will say a few words about asylum and migration policy, which is complex, important, difficult and charged, and where there are different views on the substance in the vast majority of parties. This is also very clear from today's debate. My own party, the Center Party, is very much gathered on these issues. I differ on a few points as one of the very few elected representatives, perhaps the only one. I shall explain why, in this difficult decision of today's debate, amnesty for a large isolated group of unaccompanied asylum seekers who have been rejected, I will abstain. My speech will, of course, be short and concentrated. Anyone who wants to see my reasoning more developed, as well as what I have been involved in during my parliamentary period since 2004, I refer to my blog started about 2006. Just google my name, Staffan Danielsson, and you'll be there. I have worked mainly in Parliament on defence issues, where I am delighted by my party's clear position on the NATO issue. I have also worked a lot on rural, agricultural and food issues as well as on ethical issues, especially on the right to euthanasia in the event of severe suffering in the final stages of life, and of course with much more! I am a warm humanist and share the vision of a world in peace and without borders. At the same time, however, I am a realist who realises that, with today's huge divides and widespread poverty in the world, terrible civil wars and large flows of refugees and labour migration, a regulated migration policy is inevitable. Sweden, as a small country in northern Europe, cannot deviate significantly from the other EU countries when we have Schengen cooperation with free movement. That has been my point of view and opinion. My first serious contact with migration issues was in 2011, when the Centre Party's meeting launched the concept of "New builder's country" Sweden, in which there was a lot. Then it was 2012, when a working group of my party proposed that the Center Party should stand up for free immigration. This triggered a major debate on ideas that landed well; we agreed on visions and practical policies and the difference between them. I wrote in April 2012 at the DN Debate on the legal scandal that Sweden already then, and then until 2015, as the only country in the EU, and perhaps in the world, did not make medical age assessments, but in practice accepted the age that the asylum seeker himself stated. I was accused of being xenophobic, and nothing could be more wrong. Today, what I then wrote and demanded was a broad political consensus through decisions in the Swedish Parliament. In the autumn of 2013 I opposed that the Centre's meeting would take a stand for Sweden as the only country to open its embassies to those in the world who want to apply for asylum in Sweden. I wanted this to be pursued at European level. Today, I believe that Sweden is facing a choice in migration policy. Today, Sweden has in practice a fairly unregulated immigration policy. Those who have the courage, the power and the resources to get to Sweden and can endure some difficult years by illegally staying, as undocumented, even if they have been refused their asylum or work application, succeed to a large extent in eventually obtaining a residence permit and citizenship. Either this can be acknowledged and continued as a fact that cannot be changed or the asylum and labour tests can be carried out more quickly and followed by expulsion decisions that are carried out if one receives no. In my opinion, this is the path that Sweden is facing in migration policy. Today, we are discussing the Government's proposal for an amnesty to some 9 000 people who in 2015 applied for asylum in Sweden as unaccompanied minors under the age of 18 but who have all been repeatedly refused their asylum applications. I know that the proposal gives them the right to study at upper secondary school for three or four years without any requirement for results or attendance. Although they would not then get a job – there are quite few who have so far passed their studies – it is my view that these people's connection to Sweden after six seven years in our country is so strong that no one will actually be expelled to Afghanistan, for example. That is why I am using the word amnesty, and I regret that the government has not had the courage to tell us what this is really about. Then the debate would have been easier. I have been discussing age assessment since 2012, and my view is that more than 30% of those who applied for and most often received asylum as children under the age of 18 have actually been adult men between the ages of 20 and 30. Of course, no one knows exactly what the percentage is, but I believe that the indications for what I say are very strong, which I have developed on my blog and in articles. I do not blame those who have listened to their refugee smugglers and given the wrong age. I place the responsibility on our Swedish authorities, who have failed their responsibility to control age. This means that, I believe, more than 3 000 of those who are today given the opportunity to study in upper secondary school are adult men of between 20 and 30 years of age who have claimed to be under 18 years of age. For me, this is deeply problematic and one of the main reasons why I will abstain. If the Government's proposal had concerned those who were actually children under the age of 18, with a safety margin of one to two years, when they applied for asylum, there is, in my opinion, reason for Sweden to grant them an amnesty, a residence permit and later citizenship, despite the fact that according to Sweden's migration legislation they have been rejected in several instances according to our current regulations. When 40 per cent of all unaccompanied minors in 18 years of age declared to the EU in 2015 chose to go to Sweden, with 2 per cent of the EU population, the main reason was that Sweden, in addition to being a rich country, had the most generous asylum rules and favourable conditions in general, for example when it comes to determining its own age. Sweden actually attracted many of the people we are discussing here and can therefore – I agree – be said to have some responsibility for coming here. When so many suddenly arrived, Sweden was unable to process asylum applications in a reasonable time. The reception was prolonged and stressful despite worthy efforts by both public and civil Sweden. It is therefore my view that it is not unreasonable to consider that Sweden can have a responsibility to discuss a unique amnesty – a special treatment – for those who, under our migration rules, have been refused their asylum applications and are to be expelled. An argument put forward to grant amnesty is what I mentioned earlier and which many suggest: fewer and fewer people are actually being expelled from Sweden today. Very few are expelled. More and more people who are to be expelled choose to go underground to seek a residence permit after a few years as undocumented. Therefore, Sweden today, whatever we say, has in practice a fairly unregulated migration that also has a major disadvantage and involves human suffering in several ways. So a 'no' to the government's proposal today would only lead to expulsion in a few cases. The vast majority would still be here as undocumented under difficult circumstances. For those of us who are about to decide, it is therefore a very difficult decision that awaits. I fully agree with the devastating criticism that has been made of the preparation and proposals of the government. I have respect for our spokesperson Johanna Jönsson and for my colleagues in the Centre Party's parliamentary group who have landed in supporting the Government's proposal. I also respect the fact that other parties have landed in voting 'no'. For my part, therefore, following this explanation of vote, I will not vote 'no', but I will not vote 'yes' either. My decision to abstain is a strong criticism of how Sweden's migration policy and our acceptance of abandoned age were designed in 2015 and earlier. It is also a strong criticism of how the government has designed the amnesty that this is actually about. Again: Anyone who wants to see my deeper reasoning in this I refer to many posts on my blog. Google my name, and search for example under the label immigration or age control and asylum! With this, Madam President, I thank you for 13 extremely rewarding years in the Swedish Parliament, where I have really tried to do my very best – like everyone else here. I would like to do so by symbolically saying goodbye to and shaking hands with the people's main representatives in this House, with one of the Speakers of Parliament.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-1093	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of our individual motion 2017/ 18:4173, and I would also like to make an explanation of vote as I will support the bill in its forthcoming vote. Madam President, I would like The child sat at the front of the bow of the great ship on a sun lounger in the dark. The seasickness was severe. The wind and the salty splashes softened. The sea tasted salty. The blanket was wrapped around the body so the wind wouldn't grab it. The child was not alone but had her mother on the long journey to another country. A country with a different language, far from family and the beloved grandparents. The grandfather, the veteran of war, and the warm, strong grandmother who took great responsibility during the war years would be deeply lacking. A long journey and a large sea would separate them for a long time. Madam President, I would like Sweden has met migrant children and families for all years and centuries. Swedes have also migrated. The large exodus from the mid 1800s and until the 1930s left deep traces in Sweden's development and in people's memory. Many families in Sweden still have family ties to the United States, Canada, South America or Australia. Over the course of a hundred years, there were about 1.3 million Swedes, and what drove them was the opportunity to avoid poverty, religious persecution, lack of faith in the future and political freedom. Some migration has been self-chosen and positive for people. The opportunity to contribute with professional skills and education has led people to seek happiness in other countries at all times. It has also applied to Sweden historically. The need for labour has been great during different periods, which meant that many went to Sweden in the 1960s and 1970s. They arrived on Friday and went to work on Monday. The language was learned at work. Other parts of migration are about escape. It is about large flows of refugees, about fleeing from war and misery and about trying to save their children. During the war in Finland, 70 000 unaccompanied minors aged between 0 and 17 came to Sweden. Swedish families and society made great efforts by offering accommodation and care. Many had a good time in Sweden and a good future, but not all. There is much to be learned from the history of how children and young people were affected by this. During the crisis in the 1990s, many refugees came from the Balkans. We know that for many of the children who came it has gone really well. Madam President, I would like We can hope that war, misery and poverty will be counteracted so that fewer are forced to flee. Unfortunately, however, there is much evidence that refugee waves are something we need to be prepared for in the future. At the same time, we need to remember that it is a small part that ends up outside the immediate vicinity of war. The large refugee camps in the immediate vicinity of war make it clear that most never reach beyond that. It is a matter of humanity and humanity to want to help. There is reason to feel great gratitude for Sweden's being spared from war and its horrors and to be able to hold the banner of humanity high and feel solidarity with those affected. Sweden can't help everyone on the run, but we can help some. Madam President, I would like The large refugee wave in autumn 2015 shows how important the preparedness is to cope with refugee flows. The numbers of lonely children and youths on the run put pressure on the authorities. The temporary laws were an emergency measure, but the temporary laws also became a patchwork of measures that had unreasonable consequences. The principle that children's applications should be dealt with promptly because they concern children fallen. The Finnish Immigration Service did not manage all matters within a reasonable time, and for some children there were major consequences. There was a waiting in hope and despair. Swedish families did everything to try to support in a difficult situation that also affected the whole family. These were families who wanted nothing but to support, and there were teachers who saw consequences for their students. To all these families, organisations and staff at school, I would like to say the following: Thank you for all your outstanding efforts and commitment! The humanity and humanity that you have shown and show inspire hope. Madam President, I would like The proposal we are debating today has obvious shortcomings, which many in the debate have already touched upon. Weaknesses have been pointed out by the Law Council. The Legislative Council has also previously criticized legislative referrals on other issues regardless of government. This has been explained, among other things, in the opinion of the Constitutional Committee. There are consultative bodies that are positive, and there are those that are negative. The bill is trying to remedy some of the consequences that have arisen, and that is better than doing nothing at all. In the debate and the report there are many criticisms from some but few suggestions on how to deal with the situation. The proposals in the bill will not last long-term. Children and young people have rights under the Convention on the Rights of the Child. They have rights that we have to consider and monitor. Mental ill-health is a reality for some because of the mental pressure and long waiting for a response. Long processing times change the conditions for decisions negatively. Criticized age determinations determine the future of individuals, and the benefit of the double is completely lacking. We are three liberals who have written a separate motion on the reform needs for the future and how to improve the system. These include management, age determinations, valves in the process, processes themselves, safety assessments of countries, interpreters and good men. Swedish handling has been highlighted by the Commissioner for Human Rights Nils Muižnieks. He addresses the shortcomings that have been encountered and makes recommendations that the Swedish Government and the Riksdag should take advantage of. Sweden needs legally secure processes that are predictable, long-term and transparent. It is for individual protection reasons to determine, and it is for authorities to decide the individual cases. But it is politicians who decide on rules and laws. Politics provides the conditions, and politicians must assume their responsibility for creating the conditions for legal certainty. My colleague Christina Örnebjär has put it this way: when the systems fail, it is man, the individual, who should be protected – not the systems. Madam President, I would like The little child on the ship did not cross the Mediterranean. The trip crossed the Baltic Sea. The child did not travel alone, but with his mother. It is not possible to compare the journey or the child's hardships with those of today's unaccompanied minors. But for the child, it was a frightening experience. The child quickly learned the new language, and the family had a good life. But I can still feel how difficult it was not to understand, the uncertainty, the concern about existence and the lack of relatives and the safe grandparents. And today I am a member of the Swedish Parliament. Madam President, I would like I know what it's like to be different, but want to be like everyone else – a tt meet prejudices, to change languages, to lose one language, but get a new one. But I also know how much it meant to nice, good people that I met during childhood. My teacher encouraged industriousness and improvement in school. The parents of the friends warmly welcomed. There was a joy in the new existence. I feel grateful, and I have a feeling of wanting to give back to society. Migration has both positive and negative signs. Some change country by free choice. New opportunities are being sought in a globalised world. The labour market is for some global. People move because they want to move. For others, it is a matter of life — a flight from war and a very difficult existence. Escape to live. A search for freedom and security. And children, no matter why, rarely have a choice. Children and young people are forced to make the best of their situation. Madam President, I would like Stories of refugee policy as a threat to welfare often remain undisputed. A we-and-they-thinking is spreading, but hopefully it does not take root in Sweden. There are challenges. Yes. Long-term predictable rules are needed. Countries need to take joint responsibility. And reform proposals are included in our individual motion. But migration has also had positive effects on society in the long run. Society is enriched. Society receives energy from new perspectives, skills, traditions and knowledge. Society is becoming richer and more innovative. Sweden is a highly equipped country compared to many other countries. The management of unaccompanied minors is a question of humanity, of which country we want to be in the future. Madam President, I would like Finally, the future needs politicians who believe that they can solve challenges. Politics is to want. We now need faith in the future. There's a need for hope. And the children and young people affected can contribute to the development of Sweden. I hope that some of these young people will one day stand here as Members of Parliament, to help make Sweden better and more successful.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-1115	Madam President, I would like My own decision as a elected representative, and my conviction, is to vote green, that is, yes, to the Government's proposal. I am therefore voting on the basis of my conviction. It is important to remember that, as elected representatives, we have this opportunity to vote according to our conscience and our values. My constituents expect me to express in the Swedish Parliament the views that have led them to vote for me. I belong to those in Parliament who have received the most personal cruises and have a strong connection with my voters. But for me, it's what moves within me that affects me the most. I worked for ten years in the early 2000s in the Gothenburg Rescue Mission. There I met homeless people who lost everything. I was taught to meet people at eye level, and it has left a mark on me forever. That is where I saw that it was actually possible to change people's lives, and there was born my political commitment, in the faith and hope that it is possible to change society at large for the better. I have also met a great deal of commitment from what we call civil society. Several have been into this and described the commitment with fine stories. It concerns me how families and private individuals have sacrificed time and energy to help the unaccompanied in their very difficult situation. Whole families are engaged. These volunteers, non-profit-working fellows are my heroes, and I call them the children of bliss. And I'd like to pay tribute to them with some strofer out of a song. I have met so many beautiful people with mercy in their arms who do not point fingers to the weak but meet with an outstretched hand. At a time when dark forces prevail, they have the power to resist. When egoism builds walls they don't lose courage. I've met so many beautiful people children of bliss. I've met so many brave people who have shown a sense of action and courage. When terror spreads fear and fear they help us to dare to believe that love it binds together and overcomes hatred. And the people choose sides with a flower sea. I've met so many brave people children of bliss. They're children of bliss. Madam President, I would like These admirable people, families, churches and associations have engaged, got to know the refugees, taught Swedish, interpreted decisions and summons, helped to call authorities, visited offices, hospitals and psychologists. They have invited home for coffee and food, tried to be a good listener when anxiety and despair gripped lonelings from Syria, Afghanistan and Iraq. When the unaccompanied were to be moved far from network, school, church, association and friends, many families have opened their homes because the entire world of young people has collapsed. Many have been involved in writing enforcement obstacles, have appealed and have sought alternative assessments from doctors and psychologists. But most of the time nothing has helped. Madam President, I would like The proposal that I am voting greenly, that is, yes, is that the unaccompanied minors who came here before 25 November 2015 should be given a new chance of redress. It is not an amnesty but a special trial that may mean that some may stay and others may return to their homeland. One picture of these 9 000 people is that they are violent rapists. Often, such descriptions of various invectives about Muslims are followed. It's a pretty rough way of describing these people. Of course, there are those who misbehaved. Some are violent, others do not want to adapt and some do drugs. But they won't be allowed to stay. Many will be refused when they seek one last time in connection with this opportunity. Many, who meet the criteria, will receive yes. We have heard from many here today how unaccompanied people have in many cases been treated extremely badly by the Migration Agency. It's true. These are too long processing times. The government has not done its job well. Madam President, I would like The best thing would have been if the Christian Democrats' policy had been implemented. We have proposed that exceptional and particularly distressing circumstances should form the basis for a residence permit. If the Christian Democrats' policy had been in place in recent years, more unaccompanied children and young people would have been granted a residence permit. By then, the most vulnerable would have been granted a permanent residence permit. I am therefore voting on my own inner conviction and on the basis of a great disappointment at how badly these unaccompanied children and young people have been treated by the authorities. In my world, it is important to try to be against others as I want them to be against me. Treating others as we want to be treated is a good, golden rule that holds, no matter where we come from and where we are going. That is what led me to conclude that I will vote in favour of the Government's proposal.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-1130	Madam President, I would like The limit has been reached on what is acceptable in terms of how legislation can be drafted. Suck on that wording! It is by far the hardest criticism I have ever seen as a lawyer and a Member of Parliament, and it concerns the law that we are currently debating. Society's resources are limited. Politics is always about setting interests and groups against each other. In this case, the advocates of the new law give priority to spending EUR 2 billion per year, including the municipal cost of upper secondary schools, on 9 000 adult men without asylum grounds. A total of at least 6 billion for three years. These 6 billion could have gone to school, police or medical care. They could have gone to better integration or reduced taxes. I never want to hear the parties and politicians who support the bill complain at any time that there is a lack of resources for welfare or that taxes are too high. But, Madam President, not everything is about money. Last Saturday there was an interesting debate article in the Gothenburg-Post. It was the Afghan native teacher Afzali Afzali who wrote the following, and I quote selected parts: Some of my Afghan students in their native language came storming into my office. They stood in front of me and asked: Can you help us understand some things? They were upset, some had tears of anger in their eyes. I was listening. ..................................................... Further on, we came here a week after November 25, 2015, so that means that the new law doesn't apply to us. We're being expelled, aren't we? ..................................................... The mother tongue teacher Afzali Afzali also said: It seems that both the Social Democrats and the Green Party, which have created this law that applies to asylum seekers Afghans, believe that this is the right way to bring order to asylum policy. Despite sharp criticism from the leading experts in Swedish legislation, the parties have for some reason believed that this is a good way to reduce the chaos and confusion in the area of asylum and hastily brought forward a terrible and confusing bill that does more harm than good. It is also very difficult to understand how Annie Lööf can say that she and her party intend to vote in favour of the bill when she herself has condemned it as bad. She claims that the Center Party supports this strange team construction for human reasons. But by human, she means that it is when she accepts that a certain limited group, 9 000, is chosen for a new possibility of applying for a residence permit. What are the consequences for humanity of the thousands who did not arrive before 24 November 2015? The proposal also puts native language teachers under terrible pressure and makes us a kind of asylum administrator because our assessments in the form of grades may have an impact on the fate of these young men. On 4 June, the Swedish Parliament will vote on the Government's legislative proposal. If it goes through, there will be chaos and scenes that politicians have not had the ability to imagine in their good humanity. ––– I am one of many who work as a mother tongue teacher and speak the language of those concerned. Therefore, I am at the forefront and forced to deal with these ambiguities, experience injustice, anger and despair. But that's not my job, and I can't answer. The parties that want to push this through give me no answers. Your law only creates chaos and injustice. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like The bill risks creating more problems than it solves. The vote on the proposal will take place on Thursday. There is still time for those who intend to vote yes, to think again about what they are doing.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-1142	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1, i.e. the rejection of the proposal. My brief speech will mainly concern the legislative process. In this report, the Legal Council, the Council's views on the proposal as such, the preparation of it and the non-existent impact assessment play an important role. It's a bleak reading. The Government's proposal in this proposal to grant approximately 9 000 persons without protection grounds residence permits, with complex special rules and unsolicited consequences, in some cases requiring that they also ignore final judgments in Swedish courts, is an expression of arrogance both against the democratic decision-making process as a whole and against the rule of law in the asylum process. In particular, the Law Council points out that: Existing training-related rules are very complex and difficult to grasp, and the new proposal reinforces these difficulties. The preconditions of the proposals can also be questioned in principle. It is said that the consequences of the proposal are scantly analysed, the consultation time has been short and the effects are difficult to assess. There is therefore a clear risk that the proposed rules will not be effective. It is said that the envisaged regulation deviates from normal principles in the area of justice and that the proposal circumvents the principle of equal treatment, since the possibility of residence is not dependent on the individual's circumstances. Madam President, I would like The Law Council also points out that the government is introducing a special solution for ID controls, which jeopardises legal certainty. It is said that in Swedish law it is not a principle to allow lengthy processing times in themselves to be grounds for accepting applications of various kinds. It is said that one of the requirements for the approval of the approximately 2 000 people who have been given a final expulsion decision is that the foreigner has not complied with a previous final expulsion decision. Of many astounding flaws and errors in this bill, the last two points still take the price. Abolishing the requirement for the migrant to prove his identity is another rule that is in the same group. The government ignores the rules and principles of the legislative process and demands that some people must violate a final judgment in Swedish courts in order to benefit from an extremely expensive exceptional advantage. That a left-wing government can screw up legislation in this way may not surprise you, but I am surprised that the Center Party does not stand up for a healthy Swedish administrative culture and the rule of law. The economic impact of the proposal is also unparalleledly inadequately reported. The proposals require those concerned to intend to study, but the government does not budget money for the more than 300 new upper secondary schools or equivalents that need to be implemented. The question is whether the government simply assumes that none of the people in question will study and therefore ignores budgeting for the cost. Madam President, I would like According to Alternatives for Sweden, Swedish legislation cannot be applied in this way.
i-74ae51410f0d616e-1157	Madam President, I would like Politics is rarely black and white. Politics is about priorities. So also this time. There are few times in politics that it is clear what priorities to make. Today is such an opportunity. Paula Bieler and also several Members of the Alliance have been good enough to argue for what I had intended to say here today. Nevertheless, I am going to say a few words about why it is so completely insane to support the Government's proposal. Why is it so crazy to do that? That question is very simple to answer. The proposal ignores everything that is obvious when you live in the rule of law and when you have a regulated migration policy. It overrides our main mission as Swedish MPs, to serve our voters and our country. I cannot understand, in my wildest imagination, how you think when you choose to spend billions of our common assets on the 9 000 individuals who have absolutely no reason for asylum. It is about people who are 99.4% men. 78 per cent of them have their age written down by the Finnish Immigration Service and 0 per cent have valid ID documents. The so-called feminist government prioritises 9 000 mainly men from Afghanistan over our pensioners, schoolchildren, police officers and sick people. It prioritises these 9 000 over a restored prosperity and above a restored security in our streets and squares. It prioritises this over the necessary investments in infrastructure, housing construction and the Swedish economy in the form of support for business, for example. These are things that can actually strengthen the Swedish economy and can ensure that we get an economy that can provide assistance to those in need around the world. It could also strengthen welfare here in Sweden. The government prioritises these over an effort to really support the millions of women, children, old, young and sick who are having a difficult time around the world. These are children who today have no education or even education or who are starving or dying even worse as a result of a lack of clean water and sanitation. Madam President, I would like This is not a Social Democratic policy. It is not a liberal policy. It is not a socialist policy. It is even less a green policy. Yet such a priority is chosen. For me, it's completely crazy. The position on this point only suggests one thing. All the stinging criticisms that have come from the consultative bodies are completely ignored. You don't care about the Law Council. The only thing that matters is that anyone who is heard most can stay, cost whatever it wants. A yes is always a yes, we've seen. However, the government today shows that a 'no' is not always a 'no'. This cannot be done in a state governed by the rule of law. That is why it is a little strange that individual Members go up the speaker's seat and say that this is a terrible proposal, but yet they are prepared to support it. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to appeal to all Members to follow the referral of the case by the Swedish Democrats. I hereby commend it. Secondly, I am calling for the proposal in the report to be rejected.
