i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-2	Madam President, I would like Jobs are not being created in this Chamber. They are created primarily in all small businesses around the country. Our task here is to give companies the right conditions for job creation so that more people can get to work. To ensure that tax revenues come to society, the Center Party wants tax collection not to penalise education and work. It should pay to work, train and start a business. This principle is very important. We have always run it, and we stand by it. Madam President, I would like Sweden is doing very well. In the same way, other countries in our world are doing very well. The year 2017 was better than many expected: The global economy grew stronger with growth in all continents, which is very gratifying. Although Sweden is in a boom, the number and share of unemployed people who are far from the labour market are growing. The best chance for these groups to enter the labour market is now that we are in a boom. As growth turns downwards, these people's chances of jobs will deteriorate significantly. The need for reform is therefore tangible and very necessary. The Economic Institute and the Financial Policy Council, which are government expert groups, consider that the government's actions have no more than an extremely marginal effect on employment. Madam President, I would like Structural problems in the Swedish labour market mean that groups that are far removed from the labour market, including older people, born outside Europe, people without upper secondary education and people with disabilities, continue to have great difficulties in getting a job. The group represents a growing proportion of the unemployed and is expected to account for three quarters of those enrolled in the Employment Service. When the composition of the unemployed group changes, we see labour shortages and high unemployment at the same time. It slows both job growth and GDP growth. We need to focus on important structural reforms needed to bring about positive developments. In the light of the challenges facing the labour market and the consequent need for action, the government's political priorities are largely both questionable and incorrect. The government's policy is in danger of strengthening the problems in a number of respects. At a time when more reforms are needed to strengthen employment and reduce exclusion, the government is moving in the opposite direction and making job creation more difficult and costly. During the term of office, the Government has increased taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship by approximately SEK 35 billion. These include reduced opportunities for RUT deductions, increased income taxes for 1.4 million Swedes and increased social security contributions for young and elderly people. The government's efforts in enterprise policy are negligible compared to the increase in taxes. Madam President, I would like Sweden's prosperity cannot be taken for granted. For us to continue to be one of the world's most successful countries, we need to keep the long-term conditions for growth and jobs under constant review and improvement. More people need to undergo training, more need to take the step of running businesses and more need to be employed. Breaking the split in the labour market should be the first priority. The gap is growing between those who have a job and those who don't. The shift in policy must also be based on small and growing enterprises, which have accounted for more than four out of five new jobs in the 21st century. Therefore, taxes that hit entrepreneurship and growing companies need to be reduced and simplified so that the growth of small businesses is strong throughout the country. Employers' contributions to employ those who are new and untested in the labour market need to be reduced, and it needs to be cheaper for new companies to start hiring. Income tax cuts for jobs need to be further strengthened to reach everyone, and they are the most powerful for those with the lowest incomes. The Center Party sees that this will be required, and we have worked towards a broad tax reform that simplifies the tax system. Such a tax reform needs to go across block borders and be very thorough. It must shift the tax burden away from work and over to consumption and environmental emissions. Madam President, I would like For companies, it is not just the tax increase or tax change that is being implemented that has consequences. It is equally worrying about the government's captivating back and forth in tax policy. Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson's reply yesterday was good. She said then that the exit tax will not be further processed within the Government Office. That was an example. Another example of hating is the entrepreneurial tax. Massive criticism allowed the government at the last moment to change its proposals for new 3:12 rules. A third example is the kilometre tax that was withdrawn when it was revealed that it would hit companies in sparsely populated and rural areas hard. However, it seems that the government will again come forward with a concrete proposal based on the guidelines presented the other week, which is unfortunate. Madam President, I would like This won't hold. Sweden needs new leadership. We need leadership that prioritises jobs and entrepreneurship so that people can get to work and thus get a better life situation. I got a compilation from an entrepreneur when I was in northern Jämtland a while ago. He said that he feels that the more than a million companies in Sweden are forced to spend more than an hour worrying about the announced changes that are taking place in the tax field in different ways. According to this entrepreneur's calculations, it would amount to 1 million hours. With a little simple mathematics, it is concluded that more than 42 000 days or 114 years of collective thought have gone to the head because of all the hating and balling with taxes. We can't have that. This is the time that entrepreneurs could instead have spent on business and entrepreneurship. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, I support all the reservations of the Center Party, but I call for the winning approval of time only for the Center Party's reservation No 3 and the Alliance's reservation No 6.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-19	Madam President, I would like Does Sweden hope for the future? Does the Swedish people feel that it will be better, that you can look into the future and say that in the future this will be a better country to live in? The Swedish economy is doing better than it has in a long time. We have a very strong global boom. But if you ask the Swedish people, its judgment is very clear. The good economy and the feeling that things are getting better are not really connected. Asking the Swedish people in opinion polls is the very clear answer that Sweden is heading in the wrong direction. Although Sweden as a whole is doing well, there are very good reasons for the Swedish people to feel that way. The first reason is that class divisions are increasing. If you look at the dimensions of the class divides, the so-called Gini coefficient, you see a very steady and clear increase. We see how the government continues to fail to make cancer care equal. There is still a difference in which care is provided between those who are well off and those who are less well off. We also see how BB clinics in Sollefteå, for example, are closed down, which means that people can travel long distances to have children. We see how the groups that have been lagging behind for a long time in school continue to lag behind. The second reason is that crime is increasing. After a long-term development with increased security and falling crime, we are now seeing the increase in violence and crime. This is particularly true of what is the worst and what is organised. People are being shot to death in the open street. Drug sales are open in alienated areas. The fear that Sweden, the safe country, will no longer be as safe to spread. The third and perhaps most serious reason is that welfare is getting worse. The school remains mediocre compared to other countries. The government increases the fees in care for the elderly, so that the maximum rate is raised and it is more expensive to live in a nursing home. Care queues have doubled over the last three years. Children's groups have grown. The government has proposed that the blind should start presenting receipts. You can see proposals from the government to squeeze out those who are the toughest and the most difficult in society: those who are disabled and those who are supported by the LSS. Sweden also has relatively low pensions compared to other countries. Madam President, I would like This is the case despite the fact that we have high taxes and the fact that the Red-Green Government has raised them significantly. Why is it this way? How is that possible? Yes, it is possible because the Social Democratic model does not work. There are three reasons for this. First of all, tax money – and tax increases imposed by this government – does not go to welfare. Between one in four and one in five crowns of tax paid in goes to something else, namely the contributions. Although Sweden has increased taxes and despite the fact that we have a good and very strong boom, the cost of grants has increased by nearly SEK 70 billion during this government's time in power. Secondly, the high taxes that Sweden has mean that we saw off the branch that the welfare sits on. This means that there will be worse conditions in Sweden for starting and running companies and being an entrepreneur, which means that we will have less growth and thus less opportunities to strengthen welfare. We can compare Sweden with Switzerland, which has half our tax burden but gets as much money into the cash box to spend on welfare. Thirdly – and above all – the high taxes mean that it does not pay to work and that people get stuck in dependency and exclusion, which means that instead of being able to prioritise welfare, we have to invest in subsidies. This is where the great conflict in Swedish politics lies. We will certainly hear here later from the Social Democrats that the conflict in Swedish politics would be about the existence or non-existence of welfare or whether all people should have a good life. But we all agree on that. The conflict is not about that, it is about subsidies. It is about whether it should pay off to work or whether you should get almost as much money when you go on a grant. We in the Moderates go to elections on many things. We go to elections to tighten the penalties. We go to elections to train more police officers and pay them better. We are going to elections to tighten up asylum and migration immigration, because Sweden cannot take the responsibility of the whole of Western Europe and the West for people on the run. We'll go to elections to get to the care queues. As I said, they have doubled during this government's time in power. But our top priority, the most important thing on which we go to elections, is that it should pay off to work. We're going to lower taxes for those who work, especially for those with low incomes. We will reduce the tax by 500 kroner a month, so that there is a greater difference between going to the grant and going to work. This is where the big problem for Sweden lies. It does not pay to take jobs where you earn about 18 000 – 20 000 SEK, especially if you have children. If you have three children, you have to have a income of 30 000 SEK in order for it to pay you to work. Here we have the root of the many problems that Sweden has, the root of the integration problems. People who come from another part of the world, do not know the language and have a great uphill uphill into the labour market get stuck in benefit dependency because it does not pay to work. This increases class gaps; when more people get caught up in benefit dependency, the difference between those who have jobs and those who do not have jobs becomes greater. It also makes it necessary to save on welfare. As I said, despite massive tax increases and a strong boom, the Social Democrats and this government must make austerity and savings on welfare. We must break the destructive spirit of social-democratic policy. Our most important measure and our most important promise is to reduce taxes for those who work, especially for those with low incomes. Everyone who works should receive SEK 500 more a month to go to work. This combined with austerity of subsidies will bring more people into work. It will also reduce the gaps and prevent us from paying large amounts of resources to benefit systems and from investing them in welfare. But we also need to reduce marginal taxes, not least because it makes people work longer. Those who already have a job and have a good income today in many cases choose to stay at home instead of working an extra hour. I am thinking, for example, of the doctor who may have the opportunity to work on call hours to graze the care queues but sees how more than 50% of the extra income he or she receives disappears in tax. Not least, reduced marginal taxes mean that there are better conditions for companies to hire, operate and become profitable. With that in mind, I would like to support the first reservation made by the Moderates in this report. It is with a policy that focuses on that it will pay to work and be more lucrative to run companies that we can build a better Sweden. Then we can build a Sweden with confidence in the future, a Sweden that does not have to cut in welfare because the cost of subsidies increases, which can overcome integration problems and facilitate instead of aggravating them and which can become a better country in the future. It will be a Sweden built on hard work, on the fact that it will pay to work, on strictness and on lower taxes.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-34	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for reservations 2 and 21 to be approved. The Swedish Democrats are a social-conservative party with a nationalist basic view. As regards the Sku8 Income Tax report, we highlight three elements: social policy and equality between spouses; our positive basic attitude towards entrepreneurs and direct ownership; and our high value for the national cultural heritage in Sweden. The Swedish democrats have a pragmatic approach to tax policy and see no importance in locking themselves at specific levels of taxation for ideological reasons. But we have ambitions in the field of welfare. We have ambitions in the area of security. It does not allow taxes that are too low from a global perspective. Unfortunately, Sweden has had bad experiences of having had taxes that are at the very top of the OECD area, and we are very close to that peak even today. Madam President, I would like It is possible to maintain reasonable levels of taxation – by reasonable means, I mean lower than those advocated on the left side of this House – while maintaining welfare systems if there is a government that prioritises the core of welfare rather than continuing to expand the multi-culturalist social project with ever-increasing migration, asylum reception and reception of family migrants. We share the committee's view that fiscal policy should finance common welfare, various social functions and other public expenditure, and create the conditions for stable and sustainable growth and high levels of employment, as stated in the report. But obviously there are different interpretations of this wording in this House. In relation to income taxes, that is today's debate on the committee's report No 8, Sweden currently has marginal taxes where the highest levels are almost at world level. It risks hampering the willingness of employees to work more. It is not wrong with a progressive approach to income taxation, but even if we were to reduce the maximum marginal tax to 50%, Sweden would still be significantly higher than the OECD average. In the long term, the target should be a reduction from the current level. In our latest budget exercise from last autumn, we are making a proposal with a few percentage points reduction in the maximum level of marginal tax. Madam President, I would like In times of high indebtedness and where a significant part of Swedes' wealth is tied up in public and private funds through primarily pension systems, a counterweight is needed. The Swedish Democrats see the need for a broad direct ownership of the Swedish business community in Sweden. It is also in small and medium-sized enterprises that the vast majority of new jobs are created. Therefore, we are pleased that start-ups and small expanding companies should be able to offer their employees the opportunity to invest in the company, and we also want to improve the tax conditions for employee options. At an early stage, it may be that a company is not able to offer the highest salary for new employees but that it can offer them employee options with the opportunity to take advantage of any future profits in the company. In the 2016 budget bill, the government introduced a special wage tax for older people who voluntarily or under financial coercion remain on the labour market. It was an ill-considered and counterproductive reform. All long-term projections indicate that current pension schemes are not sustainable in the sense that employees receive the pension they expect. As far as the youngest generation entering the labour market is concerned, that is, the 1990s, current trends are that the pension will amount to less than half of the final salary. As the previous government abolished the possibility of saving private savings for its pension, all future pensioners are more dependent on the delivery of the public pension system, which, according to consistent forecasts, will not. Simply put, this means that we need to work longer or accept a significantly lower financial standard for retirement, given that the pension system should be autonomous in relation to the state budget. A reasonable starting point is, in the opinion of the Swedish Democrats, to give older people positive rather than negative incentives to remain on the labour market voluntarily. There are certainly some positive incentives already, but they do not benefit from reducing them with a special wage tax for the elderly. I was going to go into an issue where we have been criticised in previous debates, and it concerns voluntary income sharing between spouses. Often, the economic differences between men and women, in particular wage differentials, are highlighted as arguments for reducing the levels of freedom in family policies. We believe that this is fraudulent reasoning, because the economic problem has mainly been created by the political decisions underlying the current situation. Voluntary income sharing between spouses or equivalents would solve many of the artificial and unfair situations facing today's families. By allowing two spouses to choose to share their income, we create an opportunity for them to build a completely equal financial situation, regardless of the level of pay or the level of the party. By also linking pension rights in the public pension system to redistributed pay between spouses, we are creating a fairer system which would, above all, benefit the party with the lower salary at its starting point. This is a reform that we mean creates real equality by allowing a family to choose different solutions and allowing a person with a high salary to share with their spouse so that they both receive equal pay. This should also mean the same pension opportunities and the same right to sickness benefit for both parties, i.e. absolute economic equality. The outlined principle of a voluntary income sharing system should, in our view, form the basis for an investigation directive with the aim of presenting a proposal for legislative changes to enable such a system. I usually get criticized because I intend to push through something that forces couples to do this or that, but this is therefore a proposal for an investigation into voluntary division and nothing else. The third point I raised at the outset was our interest in and the value we attach to the national cultural heritage in Sweden. Culturally-historically valuable buildings form an important part of the cultural heritage and highlight the cultural heritage of Swedish everyday society. That is why we want to introduce a specifically targeted ROT deduction for renovation work on buildings of cultural historical value. This is part of a culturally nationalist income tax policy in which we provide extra incentives to develop and preserve cultural heritage. The Swedish Democrats are the only party in Parliament that so clearly, through more favourable income taxation, supports the constructions that express our cultural heritage.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-54	Madam President, I would like The Left Party wants nothing less than everyone's freedom: freedom from poverty, freedom from injustice, freedom from violence, freedom to see our children grow up in security and gain the knowledge and support they need to become the best they can and freedom to work where we realize ourselves, not wear out and where we get a good wage and pension. The freedom of every human being is linked to the freedom of all human beings, with a society that allows and makes it possible. It is in equal societies that people's freedom grows at its strongest. These words come from the Left Party election platform 2018 that I have mentioned here in a previous debate. It is words that describe the freedom and conditions that every person who lives in Sweden deserves. The success of a society is determined by its ability to redistribute its prosperity in a fair and equal way. That is why tax policy can determine how equal or unequal a society can be. It is in equal societies that people develop the most and solidarity is strongest. A solidarity-based tax system is based on agreements between the state and the people. It is about the people working and then paying a significant part of their salary to the state on condition that the state uses that money to ensure the well-being of the people, the well-being of the people and socio-economic, cultural, political and economic security. This agreement is what we call the Swedish model. There should be tax-funded school, health care, elderly care, infrastructure, police, a public sector that provides services to the people, a social and health insurance system and so on that is available to anyone who needs them when they need them. As socialists, it is our pride to live in a community of solidarity like Sweden. The problem comes when some of the people, a small minority of the people, an elite, who have also taken part in this tax-funded welfare, used childcare facilities, the tax-funded school, health care, infrastructure, health insurance and so on, now that they have managed to accumulate a lot of wealth, usually at the expense of ordinary workers and taxpayers, counter the so-called Swedish model. It is neoliberal policy that is tearing our society apart and our welfare. It was a very wise Swedish leader who said this: It's an ideology based on investing in yourself, asserting your strength and not caring for others. He who is the strongest and the richest survives. They want increased wage gaps, privatisations and dismantled welfare. It wants to reduce taxes on the richest and lower wages for the poorest and increase rents. It is nothing more than preaching egotism, which leads to a cold and desolate society, a society in which it is lonely to live. It is important to be reminded that we humans need each other. We need to feel that we ourselves are needed, not just for our own needs but for the sake of others, that we have a role in our common society. It was Olof Palme who said those words. A fair tax system cannot be based on reversed Robin Hood, a tax system that distributes money from the poor to the rich. The Left Party wants to build a strong welfare that is capable of providing all people with good health care, education and a safe old age. We all help to make it possible by paying taxes. The vast majority of central government and local government income comes from taxes paid by ordinary wage earners. But we also want to use taxes to redistribute between rich and poor. That is why we want to increase taxes for the richest. The welfare state in Sweden was built because society was fundamentally unfair, and the task was to make it fairer. Today, absurdly, that is no longer the case. Both bourgeois and social-democratic governments are to blame for this. Billionaires can pay less tax than ordinary workers – we tax workers more than we tax capital – and they can get back huge amounts in deductions. We've got a tax system rigged for the rich. The design of the tax system, together with social security and welfare services, is central to a country's distributional policy ambitions. A Euromod study has analysed the redistributive effects of tax systems in the EU. The report has 1999 and 2008 as the reference year and covers countries' direct taxes. The analysis shows that during this period Sweden has gone from one of the countries whose tax systems are most favourable to having the least redistributive tax system among the EU's core countries. This is a remarkable development. What has caused this development? Let us review some of the major changes in the tax area over the time period. In 2005, both inheritance and gift taxes were abolished, in 2007 the property tax was abolished and in 2008 the property tax was abolished. These changes are likely to make a significant contribution to the significant reduction in the levelling-off effects of the Swedish tax system. Sweden is today one of the very few countries that have neither taxes on inheritances, gifts nor fortunes nor a property tax that is linked to the value of taxation. To these changes should be added, among other things, that the corporate tax rate has been reduced in several steps and that the tax on earned income has been reduced by over SEK 100 billion through the various job tax deductions. In addition, the tax rules applicable to members of small businesses, the so-called 3:12 rules, have been made more favourable, which has benefited in particular the tenth of the population with the highest income. Part of the tax changes mentioned have been implemented since 2008, which is why there is reason to believe that the tax system's redistributive effects have been further reduced. It is said that Sweden is doing well. The economy is good, and unemployment has fallen. But we must also ask the question: For whom? Someone wrote that many of the foreignborn are still unemployed. When we have the debate in this House, politicians often say: it is about refugees who have just arrived, people who are not integrated. You use a rhetoric that makes these people scapegoats: They are lazy and don't want to work. But that's not true. I have been one of the people who have come to Sweden, learned the language, integrated and educated themselves. They're looking for jobs, sometimes hundreds of jobs. They'll be happy if they get an answer. In a hundred applications, they may be invited to an interview once or twice, and there it stops. It's not about people being lazy. I know that, because I'm one of them. Many who have moved here have families abroad. Their families depend on their income. They have to work. Sustaining their family is the strongest motivation they have. I know that if I don't work and earn money, my family living abroad may not have food to eat that day. It's the strongest motivation these people have. Yet we choose to call them lazy and say they don't want to work. Madam President, I would like I would like to mention that we have taken very positive steps. In our negotiations with the Government during the autumn on the 2018 budget, proposals for changes in income taxation have been endorsed. The tax proposals involve changes from 1 January 2018 aimed, among other things, at improving the distribution profile of the tax system and reducing unfair differences in taxation. We have taken some steps in the right direction in our negotiations with the government but believe that there is still reason to do more. As socialists, we have a responsibility to pursue an equal distribution policy. I am proud that we have managed to drive and get through over 80 reforms with equalisation effects in our negotiations with the government. I am strengthened in my conviction as a socialist when in our own country I see injustice increasing, racism normalising and capitalism's logic increasing. I am strengthened in my conviction as a socialist when I see right-wing politics in country after country, including Sweden, driving people into unemployment, pointing to immigrants, racialised and refugees as scapegoats, smashing security, defending capitalism's logic and undermining democracy. I look into the future the bourgeois apparently have to offer, where the wage earners will be poorer and the rich will be richer, where social security will become more fragile and the luxury boats will become more numerous, where solidarity will become weaker and egoism will become stronger, where the strong will be able to take on themselves and where the weak will be blamed for everything that goes wrong. My conviction will then be stronger than ever. It is not enough to allow the right to rig the tax system for the rich and then not to change it. When the right has torn apart, the left must dare to restore. Against this background, the Left Party believes that the government should set up an investigation to analyse how the compensatory effects of the tax system have developed over time. This should be supported by Parliament and made known to the government. I support all the Left Party reservations, but for time to come, I only call for the Left Party's reservation No. 4.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-77	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by calling for the approval of reservation 6, the alliance reservation, and reservation 17 from the Liberals. Income taxes are by far one of the most central elements of policy. They affect how much we work in a society, what opportunities we have to train and work in a society and, not least, how much money comes into the cash register. This is where the conflict becomes left – the right is clear. On the Liberal side, as in most parties, we see a major change in the world. We see a digital revolution sweeping the world. We see that Sweden has been a country where it has been good to start new internet companies, startups, to drive them up and start making them global companies. So we have many of the right conditions in place. But we also want the companies that have emerged, the really big companies, to remain here in Europe. There is really only one heading in that direction, and it is Swedish Spotify. Otherwise, it is shrewd when it comes to really successful European startups. They are mainly in the United States. We are now discussing proposals within the EU that instead of starting to think about how we can get companies like this – global companies with tens of thousands of employees – to grow in Europe and become really big here to tax these companies even more. And there are not so many such companies here. Unfortunately, Stefan Löfven turned in this direction this weekend. In the past we have had the same view as the government, but now he turned away from it. It was not so unexpected; when there is a tax that can be increased, it usually won't be long before a left-wing party or a social democrat gets there. On the income tax side, we think it is important to keep down income taxes in order for it to pay better to educate itself and for it to pay off with hard work. Among other things, it is a question of fewer paying government income tax, i.e. continuing to raise the cut-off point. The current government has failed to do so, which has led to more and more wage earners paying government income tax even though they are not high-income earners at all – except in the rhetoric and in the budget. We think that we should raise the breakpoint but also remove the military tax, which makes a strong contribution to having the world's highest marginal taxes. Sweden taxes education and diligence most of all countries in the world. Despite this, the Left Party is told that the world's highest taxation is not enough. It's going up even more. I don't know how much and where the roof is, but it should go up even more. I must comment on what Momodou Jallow said earlier. He spoke of reversed Robin Hood politics, and I assume that he himself then stands for Robin Hood policy. Then it is important to remember what Robin Hood was actually doing: He took money from the state when the government had taken in too much tax money. If Momodou Jallow were to become prime minister in this country, he would have Robin Hood after him and nothing else. Let me turn from this to a much smaller issue, which is linked to the specific opinion that we have. In the cycling area it's a bit of fun with subsidies, taxes and other things. If you have a bike with an engine, you can get a subsidy for it. If you cycle on your own machine you do not get a subsidy, but if it is the case that the employer in some way contributes to the bike so that you can cycle to and from work and thus get to exercise a little bit, contribute to reducing car congestion and other things are taxed for this. On the other hand, if you are riding at the gym, indoors, you have to deduct that fee. This is not really connected, so we think you should think a little bit about cycling. Otherwise, I refrain from commenting on how the government is out cycling.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-88	Madam President, I would like Government policies on pensioner tax do not stick together. Now that the elections are approaching, efforts are being made to reduce the tax gap, but this still means that pensioners will have to pay more tax. But now it is said that the gap must be narrowed. They probably do so now because they are approaching an election movement and you will get quite a lot of questions from pensioners. We have been very clear from the beginning that pension is deferred salary and therefore should be taxed equally. One might think that it is I who first pronounce these winged words. But it was a person named Stefan Löfven who said this when he was in opposition in 2014. Then there were big words about pensioners and big words about the desire to close the gap between taxes on salary income and taxes on pensions. It could not go fast enough for Stefan Löfven in opposition to close this gap. Now that the Social Democrats are in the government, the promise has been forgotten. You bet quite small amounts on closing the gap, which means you don't even get close to being able to close it. We Christian Democrats have invested nearly SEK 12 billion in our budget, which means that we can close this gap completely. So we have done what the Social Democrats are only talking about – closing the gap between wage income and tax on pensions. We say as Stefan Löfven, but we keep our promises. Pension is deferred salary and should be taxed on that basis. Now the government is saying that it should invest in closing the gap next term as well as to take care of healthcare next term. Let's see what happens with that. The fact is that it has not done what it promised during this term of office. So how will voters know what to believe for the next term? Madam President, I would like In 2016, the Government reintroduced the special wage tax for those over 65 years old. Wage tax reduces companies' incentives to employ older people and reduces older people's driving forces to work, as wage tax will be partly passed on to wages and salaries and will result in a lack of wage growth or a reduction in wages. The young people's discount on the employer's contribution was also removed at the same time. Although we know that the future of our welfare rests on the fact that we can have more hours worked and that people go from contributions to work, the government makes such changes without blinking. They do so without ensuring how to finance well-being in the long term. The result is that you raise the taxes you can to finance welfare. Some sort of evaluation of these changes should be appropriate to carry out and of what their consequences will be in the future. Added to this is that the marginal tax has been increased for a large part of the workers, thereby reducing the incentive to work the extra hour or weekend, as the effect in the wallet is less. So we also get fewer hours worked here. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats believe that civil society plays an important role in the development of society and that measures are therefore needed that create better conditions for civil society to function and develop. Many important activities, such as organising summer activities for children from financially vulnerable families, taking care of refugees or running shelters for homeless people, are based on people's voluntary efforts and commitment. The Alliance government, on the initiative of the Christian Democrats, introduced the gift tax deduction to encourage giving to non-profit organizations. One year after the deduction was introduced, the total giving to the country's 90 account organisations increased from SEK 5.2 billion to SEK 5.8 billion. During the same period, the average monthly gift increased from SEK 131 per month to SEK 170 per month. The Christian Democrats therefore take very seriously the fact that the government has taken away the opportunity for those who donate money for charitable purposes to make tax deductions for the gift. We believe that the gift tax credit should be reintroduced in its earlier form and that the application and annual fees for donor organisations should be abolished. In the long term, the ceiling on the right to deduct should also be increased and the issue of developing the tax credit to include legal persons should also be reviewed. We need civil society to cope with our future welfare, and this is a small and cheap encouragement for the state.
i-BVavvRAwezzkEvC9aQRjax	Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations. Madam President, I would like For eight years we had a bourgeois government. It was eight years of tax cuts that created gaps and breaks in welfare. It was eight years with increased unemployment. It was eight years of government deficit. Now we have soon had four years with a Social Democratic-led government. It has been four years with a stop to general tax cuts, four years with a sharp drop in unemployment and halved youth unemployment, four years with spending on welfare – preschool, school, health care and care for the elderly – and the future, such as the school pupils who used to be in the gallery. Last time we took over, Prime Göran Persson said that we would halve unemployment. Then Moderate Lars Tobisson said: "Then the whole people will learn to love puddle." Then he ingested a boil, for we reached the goal. Do you like buffoons, Schulte? Madam President, I would like It has also been four years with record industrial investments. In the industry I come from, the pulp and paper industry, today the confidence in the future is growing in the mills. Madam President, I would like I have read with great interest and strong glasses the bourgeois movements, especially the Moderates. Imagination is not quite enough for all areas where they want to reduce taxes. Everywhere they find some tax that can be reduced or removed. They call it freedom. Yes, it is freedom for the few but not for the many – not for those who leave the children in preschool, for those who cycle to school or for those who enjoy an elderly care or medical care where no one looks in your wallet before the business takes over. Of course, there are shortcomings in welfare, but we are investing resources in welfare, not in major tax cuts. Madam President, I would like If you add the tax cuts of the bourgeois parties, you actually reach the figure of SEK 100 billion. In addition, they want to legislate on reduced entry wages. It's the real double shot. The Swedish Democrats are thrashing patrols after the right parties. Their dream team is Ebba Busch Thor and Ulf Kristersson. I think it's crying in the Mission Church. KD says again: now the pensioner's tax will be removed. But, Larry Söder, five times you've had the opportunity to pull out the console disc on your bench and press the yes button or the no button. I have five times pressed against tax gaps; you have five times pressed yes. It is the job tax deductions that have created this tax gap, and you have been involved in this. Madam President, I would like High taxes do not threaten economic efficiency. There are large gaps and income disparities that threaten economic efficiency. There is broad consensus on this in economic research and debate in the world. A large common sector and a functioning social security system financed by taxes create a community of solidarity. The aim of the Social Democracy is always to aim for equality, for it gives the many people freedom. We also know that high-tax societies have higher tax standards. People usually know what they get for the tax, not the opposite. Of course, our tax system has shortcomings. We have wrong income taxation in relation to capital taxation. There are a few hundred exceptions to the tax reform that took place when Gösta Bohman was crying. Liberals and Social Democrats brought it up with the Center. We are in favour of a broad review of tax policy, not in order to reduce taxes, but to distribute in a more reasonable way. Social democratic fiscal policy is not about politics for the few, but about a policy for the welfare of the many.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-115	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by repeating my motion so that there is no error in the Minutes. I commend the Christian Democrats' reservation 23 and the Alliance's reservation 6. Thank you very much for an interesting speech! It contains quite a lot of the discussion of the past rather than the discussion of the future. In my speech, I referred to what was promised in the elections and what has not been done during this term of office. I was quite clear about trying to stick to the speech of the current Prime Minister and what was said before the election on pensioner tax. Pension is a deferred salary and must therefore be taxed as such. I cannot see that the Social Democrats have kept that promise. I would like to know whether Peter Persson is proud that that promise has not been kept. Peter Persson was very careful to tell us that they have invested in welfare. I would like to ask Peter Persson whether he can look into the eyes of the people who are currently in the middle of such a long queue in health care or who are not entitled to the LSS that they had last term of office or the 5 000 who are in line for retirement homes but who do not have room for it. Do you think I should tell them that this government has invested in welfare? Then I would like to challenge Peter Persson and ask him to mention a real reform in welfare where you look at the future and not just hide money into a big black hole.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-120	Madam President, I would like I repeat: it was Larry Söder who created this gap in taxation between pension income and earned income by pressing the yes button on five occasions when it came to job tax deductions. Why did you do it? Why did your party participate in the government position to create this gap? Now that the Moderates are launching a sixth job tax deduction, will the KD say that you do not agree to it, that you do not want a further gap between pension income and earned income? I understand that you do not want to talk about what has been during previous terms of office. I would also defend the truth, which would run up my face. But I didn't. For income earners up to 17 000, we have removed the tax burden that was added to pensioners, and by 2020 we have closed that gap. And we are not doing it with borrowed money, we are doing it with money that we have created through work and fair distribution. We have invested 13 billion in health care, 10 billion in the municipalities for elderly care and school and another 10 billion – that's what you call money in a big black hole. Is that really KD's view of equality and welfare?
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-123	Madam President, I would like I note that Peter Persson does not answer any of my questions. We had the same discussion last year at this time, and then I did not get an answer either. I ask the question one more time, because you have another opportunity to answer: Why did you promise for the 2014 elections to remove pensioner's tax? You failed to do so during this parliamentary term. Why haven't you succeeded? Secondly, why do you make the same commitment before this election? Who thinks you'll be able to keep that promise in the next term of office? Then Peter Persson still owes me the answer. What real reform in the area of welfare is it that is forward-looking so that healthcare queues can be managed and retirement homes are sufficient? Peter Persson has still not talked about this. I cannot see that the Social Democrats have that policy for the future. The answer is always: Raise taxes and invest more money, and we think it will work out! We Christian Democrats have reforms in order to be able to cope with healthcare for the future. We believe, for example, that hospital care should be nationalised. But Peter Persson's answer is always: What you did before was wrong, so we do not take responsibility for the future. But, Peter Persson, you must take responsibility for the future. Then it's a matter of keeping your word. I ask you again: have you kept the electoral promise to remove the pensioner's tax on the 2 1⁄2 million pensioners who are out there? Is the answer yes or no?
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-127	Madam President, I would like I have already answered the question. For pensions up to 17,000, that gap is gone. By 2020 it will be completely gone. I repeat: you are the one who introduced this tax burden between pension and work income. When it comes to social reform: Read the budget! Imagine, all families with children who now receive an extra $200 in child benefit! Furthermore, study grants, housing allowances for pensioners, EUR 13 billion for health care, resources for municipalities – that is what I call future reforms. Safe workplaces I call future reforms. What Social Democracy says is what we stand for. Unlike the constellations that Larry Söder and KD usually belong to, we do this with money that is created through labor and financed, not through debt. There's a radical difference. Then I am fascinated by the fact that the KD is not the biggest party in parliament. It is true that Bert Karlsson has helped us now, so it is another Christian Democrat. They say you should nationalize the health care system. Is that the line of Liberals, Centers and Moderates? Is it their line of not implementing a sixth job tax deduction with an increased gap? Why didn't this giant as KD seem to be dealing with the widening gap between pension and work income, when you actually had a minister in the government? Why didn't you, Larry Söder?
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-130	Madam President, I would like As Peter Persson pointed out, it was quite telling that the school class earlier left the hall in the middle of his speech. Peter Persson has given about the same speech since the 70s. It is about the class struggle, about equality, about welfare and about how tax cuts tear our society apart. What about equality and welfare in the years that the Social Democrats have run? I was into it in my opening statement. Now the Social Democrats want the blind to present receipts. It tightens up for the absolutely weakest in society and the LSS support for disabled people. The maximum rate of care for the elderly has been raised. Children's groups are growing. BB has been closed down in Sollefteå. Care queues have doubled. And, Madam President, class divisions have increased. It is therefore a fact of the time of the Social Democrats in power. It's the truth when Peter Persson gets to run things. Is Peter Persson happy? Does Peter Persson think that this development is positive, with increased gaps and less well-being? Is there no self-criticism about the fact that the Social Democratic model – raising taxes to finance heavily increased subsidies – is actually causing problems? Peter Persson said that the Alliance is proposing a total of SEK 100 billion in tax cuts. Yes, that is about the resources that the Social Democrats have increased and contributed to the benefit systems. There's the shoe that squeezes. That is where we have the problems of the widening gaps and the lack of well-being. It is not possible to resolve this in this way. It cannot be solved with the Social Democratic model. We have to work, because it is with work, entrepreneurship and rigour that we build Sweden strongly. By reducing taxes on labour income so that it pays better to work than to go on benefits, we get more resources for welfare so that more people can get into work and the gaps can be reduced.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-135	Madam President, I would like Schulte wasn't in the '70s, but I was. He does, however, give a correct history description. I've said the same thing from time to time, and I feel very safe about it. Solidarity, equality and freedom are things that are timeless, carry the future with them and are firmly rooted in history. Schulte, on the other hand, has had tremendous problems. Imagine when the Moderates stood up to the speaker's seat in Västerås for the first time and said: I love collective agreements; I think it's good to have trade unions and employment protection. Then it passed. Now the old ones are back, and then I think Schulte is happy. He looks much better after the new turn right out there where they went out. I want to ask you something. Sure, class gaps have increased. However, we now have a budget that actually reduces the class gap, and it is done through important instruments: decent unemployment insurance, health insurance that works, child benefits and pension supplements, which equalise differences. You're talking about lowering taxes to give the small ones better conditions. Then I would like to ask you, how much tax reduction does anyone who makes 15 000 receive? How much of a tax cut does the one who earns 120 000 get? We want answers to this.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-138	Madam President, I would like The Moderates' tax policy is, above all, about targeting the bulk of our tax cuts to those who earn the least, so that it pays to work and there are strong drivers to go from living on subsidies to getting into work. Our goal is for everyone who works to keep another 500 SEK a month. I think what we just heard from Peter Persson is very interesting. When he talks about fighting the gaps, he comes directly to the subsidies: raising the subsidies, strengthening the unemployment fund and so on. That analysis by the Social Democrats is wrong, and that is what we are now seeing. Despite increased taxes and despite the fact that we have a boom that gives the state more money, the Social Democrats have to pull in on welfare. The care queues double, you have to let the blind report receipts, you tighten the LSS for the disabled. Peter Persson does not like to touch on these issues. He tries to talk around them because they cut right into the soul. It is time for the Social Democrats to update their policies. The creation of equality through grants does not work. It's now proven. You have to invest in increasing benefit systems rather than investing in welfare, precisely because you are so locked up in that it is with benefits that the class divides are being combated. This is an old socialist remnant: that everyone should have it equal, whether you work or not, but you go on benefits. But already 150 years ago, when Marx presented socialism, it was said: But what happens when you get nothing for your efforts and don't get paid for your efforts? Yes, then people will get stuck in dependency and exclusion, and that is what we are seeing now. It's time, Peter Persson, to refresh himself. The 70s were 50 years ago, the wall fell and socialism has failed – and the Social Democratic model as well.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-143	Madam President, I would like If you spend a long time in the sun, your eyes will slacken. That's probably the way it is when you're on the side of the sun, too. It is called justice that whoever earns 15 000 receives 266 kroner in tax reduction with your policy. Anyone who earns 120 000 gets 9 000 in tax reduction. The O has fallen away when you talk about justice, Fredrik Schulte. There's supposed to be an O in front: injustice. That's what it's all about. The hundreds who had to stop producing the good peas at Findus in Bjuv, which we enjoyed when we ate Wienerschnitzel, would thus be double punished. They would not receive decent unemployment benefits when the multinational simply closed down and laid waste to the countryside. Then they would be punished one more time. Of course, they should have the opportunity to move forward in life. Anyone who has worked as a nurse or at one of IF Metall's many workplaces and becomes ill should have a decent remuneration. For me, this is the deepest form of solidarity. But I have seen that there is a contribution where you are world champion, Fredrik Schulte. You belong to the Stockholm County Council, not me. There you are extremely generous with contributions to the slender consultants at all.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-147	Madam President, I would like It is clear that tax issues affect a great deal, both people and companies, but also politicians. How we levy taxes, what they should do and how much tax is to charge are very important issues that affect people directly in everyday life. Last summer the opposition parties threatened the government with censure precisely because of three proposals in the field of taxation. There were notifications that they might be put forward in the budget proposal. It was about the 3:12 rules, where an investigation had previously been carried out. There were proposals for deterioration for small businessmen, which were then re-established by the government. After a referral, the proposal was much better from the point of view of the companies than that produced by the investigation, but it nevertheless contained some deterioration. It was also about the breakpoint for when to pay government tax. A few times during the term of office, that breakpoint has not been listed in the same way as before, which has meant that more people have had to pay government tax. The third question was the air tax, which also went through and becomes applicable now on Sunday, on 1 April. These were three quite marginal changes, but they were still leading to a motion of censure and, by extension, a possible government crisis. One might wonder how a future can happen when tough decisions may have to be made for some reason. Perhaps we may have to do so in the coming parliamentary term or at some point in the future when the economic cycle is not as strong as it is at present. Madam President, I would like Several of the bourgeois parties argue that they want to abolish the military tax, the tax paid by those with the highest wages. The bourgeois parties have previously given very different information about how big they think the levy should be. The political spokesperson of the Center Party spoke of his desire to reduce the tax burden by 10 percentage points. This is equivalent to SEK 400 billion or about ten times the total appropriation for the judiciary, the police and the courts. Liberal party leader Jan Björklund said on at least one occasion that the tax ratio should remain at the same level during the next term of office – all in all, no tax cuts, that is. This is not easy to get together when one also hears about the individual proposals for reductions that exist. There are also sometimes ambitions to spend tax money on things. Just before Christmas, an investigation was set up to review the travel allowance and do it again. This is a very important issue that the vast majority of parties have supported in two rounds during this term of office, both in the Rural Committee and in the Environmental Objectives Committee. We will now see whether the Moderates will be able to stand up for the positions they made on those occasions and will want to introduce a transport-neutral distance-based travel deduction instead of what we have today, which very unilaterally favours car commuting, and even if the new system were to put Mälardalen more at a disadvantage than today and instead benefit not least the inland of Norrland. With this, Madam President, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-157	Madam President, I would like I, who otherwise sit on the Committee on Economic Affairs, naturally wanted to get into the debate in general on income tax issues – that would be interesting. In fact, however, I am going to focus solely on a motion that is viable precisely when it comes to the debate on business and, not least, preferential cars, which many people have in business and which one can have as part of one's job. Exercise 637 is about tax exemption for environmental improvement measures. The existing car park can be improved in a very simple way. Not least now that we have had an unusually cold winter, reducing the number of cold starts would have an enormous positive effect on air quality in our cities. The Nordic climate and the fact that many cars are not in heated garages make millions of cold starts every year in Sweden. Research teams in California and Pittsburgh, U.S.A., show that a modern car can emit as much harmful substances for 30 seconds after a cold start as it does during 30 miles of driving with a hot engine. Tests have been carried out both by the Finnish VTT, which is an independent research institute, and by our own National Road and Transport Research Institute, VTI. It has been shown in various ways that both carbon monoxide and hydrocarbons have decreased by 99% – as shown by the Finnish Institute. Nitrogen oxy has decreased by up to 50%. VTI showed that 73 percent of annual carbon monoxide emissions, for example, and 7 percent of nitrogen oxide emissions are due to cold starts. If that is the case, you can say: Yes, it is because most cars travel very short distances, and a cold engine has more fuel consumption. What is being done about this? Yes, it could be eliminated quite easily with an hour's use of engine heaters. You might find it rather romantic that the childhood summers were much warmer and that the childhood winters were much colder – there was always snow, and you could go sledding and all that. But the fact is that motor heaters have been very common in this country, not least in parking spaces adjacent to apartment buildings. But in recent years it feels like you haven't realized the need for engine heaters. But the fact is that the research institutes' measurement results have shown that, as I said, with the existing car fleet, we could already radically improve air quality in our cities. The motion in the motion deals with this: introducing tax exemption for electric car heating systems does not penalise those who want to improve air quality in our cities. That would be a fairly simple, cheap and efficient way of actually doing something for those who cannot afford to buy new cars, who have other types of fuel systems, and who want to be able to do something of what they already have.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-162	Madam President, I would like It is important that taxes are designed to strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish companies and that the Swedish Tax Agency collects the taxes decided by the Riksdag. Taxes must be designed so that people dare to take risks and start businesses. Taxes will contribute to growth and development throughout the country, facilitate job creation and entrepreneurship and stimulate green tax exchange. Taxes must be long-term, predictable and legally secure. The same shall also apply to the conduct and exercise of authorities. Madam President, I would like Taxes should be simple – based on this starting point, the so-called Tax Simplification Investigation was established in 2012. The investigation would evaluate and seek to simplify tax rules for individual traders and partners in partnerships. Among other things, simplified rules were proposed with, as far as possible, maintaining neutrality in taxation between individual traders and traders operating as public limited liability companies. It is clear to me that today's tax system needs to be changed and shaped in accordance with the main features of the Tax Simplifying Investigation's proposal for a distributable income. This would mean improved tax rules and reduced tax administration for small businesses. Madam President, I would like The tax simplification investigation also came with the proposal to abolish the forest account, which is a misconception that would make it very difficult for family businesses to operate forestry. The question of the forest account is important for family forestry, which needs to have long-term and well-known rules of play in order to develop. Forestry is a basic industry that many companies and people depend on, and it can go several generations between fellings. It must then be possible to distribute income over time. On the same theme, I have proposed here in Parliament that the reindeer industry should be able to have a reindeer account. This will help to strengthen reindeer production and facilitate generational shifts. Parallel to the forest account and the forest industry is self-evident. Madam President, I would like Just as it goes without saying that people should be able to retain to a large extent the fruits of their own labour, regions that contribute with valuable production should retain parts of this value. It must pay for municipalities and regions to improve their business environment, make productive investments and give land to important infrastructure and production. Tax policy should be used as a tool for growth creation across the country. This can be made possible by the decentralisation of taxes, where several parts of the State property tax are regionalised in order to strengthen the level of regional decision-making and the ability of the regions to pursue growth-friendly policies on their own merits. It is also very normal and mostly common in our surrounding world that property tax has bases other than a government. As far as property tax is concerned, we want to start by making a regionalisation of electricity-producing properties, such as hydroelectric power and wind. Tax bases are a key issue, but at the same time structural reforms must be implemented to halt and reverse regional fragmentation. Well-functioning, autonomous and strong regions are crucial for strengthening local and regional competitiveness and creating better conditions for entrepreneurship, innovation and investment. Regional tax bases would also make visible the large values that are currently produced in many of Sweden's municipalities and regions but which are taxed nationally. Madam President, I would like A large part of our smaller companies are family businesses. Many of these companies are run by people over the age of 55. We are thus facing a major generational shift in Swedish companies. The fact that these companies can continue to operate is very important. They create security and long-term sustainability in the Swedish business community. In the spring of 2014, the Alliance government appointed a special investigator to review the rules on taxation in the event of a change of ownership of small-time companies in order to make them more effective. Unfortunately, the current government amended the investigation's directive with a focus on increased tax collection, and we are aware of the outcome of this. The study proposed changes that according to the investigator himself increased the tax charge for small businesses by about SEK 5 billion. Madam President, I would like In this year's budget motion, we from the Center Party proposed that the study on generational change should be carried out immediately, to facilitate all family entrepreneurs facing a generational shift. It is also important to establish that there are still strong reasons to change the few-man company rules. In the long term, it is desirable that the gap between taxes on capital and taxes on labour should be narrowed. Madam President, I would like It must be easy to start a business, and this often happens in smaller companies. It must be easy to run a business. The tax system must reward personal, direct and working ownership, which has a strong positive impact on society. Finally, I would like to state that I support the centre-party reservations contained in the report, but for time, I only support reservation 3 and the Alliance's reservation 7.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-174	Madam President, I would like The work line begins in companies. It is through entrepreneurship and through new and growing companies that more people get their jobs, more people get jobs and more people can feel real security. More jobs in growing companies also mean increased tax revenues, which in turn finance our common welfare. It is becoming increasingly clear that this is one of the most important dividing lines in Parliament. Either it wants to make it easier for entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship and makes proposals on how to simplify rules and adjust taxes so that more people want and dare to take the step into entrepreneurship and so that more companies can grow – or it makes proposals where entrepreneurship is restricted and made more difficult. Either one chooses to look at entrepreneurship as a prerequisite for growth, jobs and good welfare – or one sees entrepreneurship as something necessary evil, which distorts and distorts the most, and which can constantly be imposed on new taxes and thus constitutes a never-ending source of revenue for the state. Madam President, I would like In 2012, the business community met a newly elected S-leader who, with a business plan and industrial chancellor, would reindustrialise Sweden and strengthen entrepreneurship. Some probably thought that Löfven, Damberg and Andersson were a new and entrepreneurial type of social democrats. Now we've got the facts. Taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship have been increased by SEK 40 billion. New enterprise is the lowest in ten years, and head office leaves the country. The overall assessment of the business environment in Sweden has fallen to a bottom level since the Swedish Enterprise for the first time asked the question in its 2008 survey. The Social Democratic-led government has introduced, or threatens to introduce, a series of taxes and regulatory changes that directly hit the business community. These include reduced RUT and ROT deductions, increased employers' contributions, increased marginal taxes, threats of wealth tax and threats of 3:12 rules that impair entrepreneurship. It is a ban on profits in welfare sectors, which strikes at perhaps 20 000 companies and also at freedom of choice. Finally, at least in this list, it is also a flight tax. Madam President, I would like For me, every single entrepreneur is a hero. It is someone who believes in an idea, who develops it and who, through his strength and commitment, contributes to Sweden's development and to his own and others' livelihood. That is why I say: Entrepreneurs should be appreciated, not taxed! In this spirit, the Moderates have a number of proposals in this report. We propose simplification of the collaborative economy. We propose to investigate a flat-rate taxation that makes it easier for small businesses. We propose tax deductions for companies that make climate compensation measures. We have suggestions on how to facilitate generational change. The housing market is important from a corporate perspective, which is why we also want to increase the incentive for second-hand rental of housing. Finally, we also want to strengthen Swedish maritime competitiveness by reviewing the tonnage taxation system. In the rest of this debate, I will focus on two of these proposals: firstly, the question of simplification of the collaborative economy and, secondly, the question of facilitating generation shifts in enterprises. The Moderates want Sweden to be the world's best country for the collaborative economy. The fact that people share goods and services with each other has occurred at all times. It allows resources to be used more efficiently and to benefit more. However, the extensive digitalisation of recent years has scaled this up to completely new levels, and platforms match people's demand in just a few seconds. However, a service provided by one private individual to another is taxable, and the administration required at such a time is today extensive. There is therefore a need for administrative simplification and tax relief, especially for small incomes. The Moderates therefore propose to investigate a tax exemption of SEK 30 000 per year on such income. Finally, I would like to say something about generational shifts. One of the Moderates' proposals is to review the taxation of generational shifts in order to make it easier for more people to hand over their business to the next generation. A survey by Entrepreneurs shows that every sixth company today sees a change of ownership as likely within five years. The possibility of successful generational shifts is therefore crucial for the success of many Swedish companies in the coming years. Today, unfortunately, tax rules are such that it is less advantageous to sell to a loved one, such as a child, than to sell to an external party. The Moderates therefore want to change the taxation of generational shifts in order to prevent job losses. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by calling for the Moderates' reservation 1 and the Alliance's reservation 7.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-190	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2 in the report. The Swedish economy and Swedish companies have long struggled under demanding administrative regulations and burdensome tax burdens. Sometimes you can experience the system obstructing and locking in. The Swedish democrats see a need for a clear regulatory framework, but there must be reasonableness in the systems. In addition, the total tax charged by companies must not exceed the level that makes entrepreneurship generally less interesting than it could otherwise have been. We therefore want to invest in improving and simplifying tax conditions both in terms of capital and skills supply and in terms of taxation related to the production and export of companies. Madam President, I would like The report deals with the remaining motions from the general period of exercise concerning precisely the taxation of companies, capital and real estate. In the case of companies, the Swedish Democrats have over the years put forward a wide range of proposals to make it easier for small and medium-sized enterprises. The so-called general wage levy within the framework of social security contributions on labour does not have a specific area of public security which it is intended to fund, but is an additional tax burden on labour, which is particularly affecting small businesses. The general salary contribution represents approximately one third of the total employers' contributions of 31.4%. Lately, the general payroll fee has been increased and is today at 10.72. Wage tax is perceived as unfair by many entrepreneurs, and it also hampers incentives for them to recruit. The Swedish democrats would like to go in the opposite direction and completely abolish the general wage bill for all companies with up to three employees, i.e. the three first employees. It should be based on a ceiling of SEK 300 000 in salary per employee, and it would correspond to a tax relief of SEK 90 000 per year for a small company with three employees. For employees with a salary sum higher than SEK 300 000 per employee or more than three employees, the general payroll fee only pays on those parts that exceed the ceiling amount. So there will be no threshold effect of this. In this way, we are not only creating savings for self-employed workers, but also strong incentives for new entrants. Together with the greatly alleviated sickness pay liability that we have also proposed for smaller companies, it can be assumed that it will bring much better opportunities for the smallest companies to grow larger and hire more. As mentioned earlier, four out of five new jobs are created in small and medium-sized enterprises. It also requires that these companies have the opportunity to grow. The reservation I called for takes up a proposal for a system that is sometimes called innovation boxes. In practice, this means financial relief for companies whose turnover is based on new technical products or processes. There are such systems in other EU countries that have conditions similar to those of Sweden, such as the Netherlands and Belgium. Our vision is that the support should be targeted specifically at small and Swedish companies and generate an incentive to develop innovative processes or products. It makes it easier for small and medium-sized enterprises and innovative ones. We believe that this is precisely where the new jobs will be created and thereby Swedish inventiveness. O ch that's where Swedish innovations that give the future export success will be found. Madam President, I would like The government's taxation on ordinary people's small savings through an increase in the flat rate on investment savings accounts and capital insurance is unfortunate from several perspectives. On the one hand, it is less profitable to save, while lending is tax-subsidised through interest rebates, which is an unfortunate principle in itself, and on the other hand it creates great uncertainty about a common and popular form of savings that is used by nearly 2 million Swedes. Not only once, but twice in a short time, the tax has been increased. In addition, many see this form of savings as an alternative pension saving. The public old-age pension scheme does not deliver, and future pensions will be less than half of the final salary – as has also been mentioned earlier in the debate. The government has in the past completely abolished the possibility of saving private money in pension insurance, which has led to many having turned to capital insurance or investment savings account. The tax charges that the government has now announced, and the uncertainties that these present for the future, mean that the possibility of influencing one's own pension is now limited compared to the previous one. That is why we have said no to the proposed tax increase.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-199	Madam President, I would like The tax system shall be designed to ensure long-term financing of public activities. It will help to close income and wealth gaps, and it will also be a tool in the transition to an environmentally sustainable society. Therefore, the primary task of fiscal policy is to finance the common welfare, various social functions and other public expenditure. In addition, it will also create the conditions for sustainable growth, high employment and fair prosperity. Madam President, I would like We have heard in the past from the citizens how companies create wealth and how important it is to reduce corporate tax. We have witnessed how they have reduced the tax by 140 billion for the richest while at the same time seeking to reduce the wages of the poorest. It is a neoliberal thought in a liberal policy, which the Left Party will always fight. Madam President, I would like It is clear to us that prosperity is created by people's work. The right to work is the greatest value of freedom for all in a modern society. Work provides opportunities for participation in society both individually and collectively. How the work is organised is crucial for the development of society as a whole. Understand me right! Entrepreneurship is incredibly important to our economy. Sweden is well known for innovation and development, and Swedish companies contribute a lot to the economic growth that prevails in Sweden today. These companies employ and contribute to the creation of employment, which is one of the most important goals of the Left Party. Full employment is one of the most important economic objectives. Well, Jörgen Warborn, we appreciate entrepreneurs. They play an important role in our economy. Madam President, I would like The Swedish model is based on the fact that everyone contributes to our common welfare. That is why it is important to also talk about tax offences. They're a problem. If we are to have a working common welfare, we must fight tax offences. Tax crimes, tax evasion and tax evasion have become the sign of greed today. Large greedy capitalist corporations want to live as parasites at the expense of ordinary workers. Tax evasion and tax evasion involve huge costs for Sweden and other countries and withdraw resources from the common welfare. Tackling tax evasion and tax evasion at both national and international level is therefore still a high political priority for the Left Party. That is why we think it is important to limit the tax error and to prevent tax offences, tax evasion and tax evasion. The Swedish Tax Agency's studies show that the widespread cheating of taxes and charges, and especially the widespread so-called undeclared work, which I choose to call illegal work, has significant negative effects. There is a strong link between tax evasion and other economic crime. A large proportion of economic crime involves companies using illegal labour or cheating taxes and charges in other ways. The negative effects of tax evasion are numerous. In addition to shifting the tax burden to other taxpayers, the fraud leads to distortions of competition and to the risk of serious traders being eliminated by tax-false competitors. Furthermore, if certain taxpayers are able to shift their share of the tax and charge burden on others, respect for the democratic decision-making system will be disrupted. Madam President, I would like Maintaining trust in the rule of law requires effective fight against tax fraud and economic crime. The Left Party believes it is good that the Government has stated in its 2018 Swedish Tax Agency's regulation letter that the agency will report in the annual reports for 2017 – 2020 how the agency has worked, both on its own and in collaboration with the Swedish Economic Crimes Agency, to strengthen and intensify efforts to combat tax offences, tax evasion and tax evasion and the effects of measures taken. In addition, the Swedish Tax Agency will report on the measures taken to develop collaboration with the Swedish Economic Crime Authority in this area. Today, Madam President, homeowners and owners of a tenant-owner have the opportunity to use costly subsidies to renovate their home. On the other hand, the ROT deduction does not apply to rental residents. It is an unequal relationship, where those who live in rental law pay in practice for the possibility for homeowners to reschedule the bathroom via the tax. It's not right. It's not fair. That is not how we should use taxpayers' money. Madam President, I would like I would also like to highlight the importance of pursuing policies that benefit the people and not large banks or venture capitalists. We want to increase people's influence over their own life situation and create greater opportunities for popular influence over social development. We know that democratic societies are better societies. When popular rule is eroded, it not only means worse decisions, but it also damages confidence in democracy. In a few decades power has shifted from democracies to a growing financial sector. Decisions that could be taken by governments and parliaments in the past are now enshrined in trade agreements. Paid lobbyists and PR companies often have more power over the agenda than parties, which has accelerated as the EU's power has expanded. This means that policies in almost all countries have had to follow the same pattern: privatisation, more precarious jobs, predatory behaviour on the environment, reduced taxes for the rich and greater risks for the rest of us. Madam President, I would like We see a worrying development in which democracy is called into question by right-wing and racist forces and eroded by the power of capital. The Left Party wants to reduce the influence of the financial sector on our societies. The enormous values created by our work will be invested in socially beneficial things such as innovations, the transition to an ecologically sustainable society and reduced working hours. Instead of simply aiming at the highest possible return, state-owned companies should be actively used in the conversion efforts to increase equality and equality and strengthen democracy. We also want to increase the collection of taxes from the banking sector. We are proposing a banking-sharing law aimed at significantly reducing banks' risk-taking and a financial transaction tax in order to reduce short-term speculation. Madam President, I would like The Left Party wants to stop the shift of power from democratic institutions to large companies that many of today's international trade agreements mean. A good example is the CETA agreement, which was voted through in this House last week. It was worrying to see how every party except the Left Party fought to defend the protection of investment and the dispute settlement mechanisms of the big companies, which fundamentally alter the democratic balance of power between democratically made decisions and the interests of the big companies. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to highlight our reservation about foreign companies operating in Sweden and the rules on permanent establishments. The rules determine whether a foreign company should pay income tax in Sweden or not. Today, the rules are closely linked to an assessment of whether a company is established in an exact place in Sweden or not. Companies that cannot be linked to an exact location in Sweden can thus escape tax liability by having their office abroad even if they conduct extensive operations in Sweden. These could include road haulage companies, temporary agencies and construction companies. This opens up unfair competition and social dumping. Therefore, it should be examined whether the provisions of the Income Tax Act on a permanent establishment are properly designed to include foreign companies that operate extensively in Sweden. This should be supported by Parliament and made known to the government. I support all of the Left Party's reservations, but for the winning time I only ask for reservation 4.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-218	Madam President, I would like Who wants to be a cop today? I hear that question quite often in coffee discussions. Who wants to be a cop today? This question is justified by the situation in which police officers work and sometimes the support they receive from us in politics. But police officers are not the only group in trouble. Today we have problems in a lot of working groups. Police leave because of the work situation. Teachers leave the profession because of the work situation. I think the list can be made quite long. I also believe that we can now add entrepreneurs. Who wants to become an entrepreneur today? Or perhaps I should rephrase the question: Does our government want some entrepreneurs? Rules and taxes that increase administration and the costs of us wanting everyone to do the right thing have a legitimate purpose, but I think that makes normal people think again before they become entrepreneurs. Do you want to take on the responsibility of being an entrepreneur? Do you want to take the risk of being an entrepreneur? An increasingly heavy administrative burden in order to deliver data to our authorities makes it feel like the core business becomes a secondary business. In the past, we also heard that the number of new entrepreneurs is at an alarmingly low level. We should think again. Loss of profit in welfare is just one in a row of ideas from our government to stop entrepreneurs from being entrepreneurs. Where else can you imagine that idea coming from? We are not talking about the free choice for students and teachers or the quality of what is delivered, but only about the fact that it is entrepreneurs who make profits. I believe that people must be encouraged to become entrepreneurs – to realise their ideas and thus be able to start, run and develop companies that create jobs and generate taxes for their welfare. For me, it is obvious that we must have a variety of practitioners and welfare services and that the focus must be on the quality that is delivered. For me, it is equally obvious that tax rules should be so easy to follow and flexible to change over time that the flexibility in entrepreneurship remains. For example, it is a natural phase for an entrepreneur to want to sell his company or pass it on to his or her family members at some point in time. It may be that you want to take on a new challenge or have grown tired. You may no longer want to take responsibility or risk it now. You may have grown up in the years or simply feel that it is time for the children to take up. Today, the tax rules are such that it is less advantageous to sell a company to a related party than to sell the company to an external party. The review of the 3:12 rules was set up by the Alliance Government to ensure that disposals of qualified shares are taxed as much as possible, irrespective of whether the divestment takes place within or outside the related circle. Although the government has now backed up in raising the tax on small business by changing 3:12 rules, the problem remains in terms of ownership changes. We in the Alliance therefore believe that the rules for generational shifts should be facilitated. Mr President, I would like to I tried to look carefully at the motions that were submitted, and to my delight I could not find any exercise that was about reinstating the property tax in its former form. We Christian Democrats pushed for it to be removed, and we see no reason to reopen that discussion. The Alliance government removed the property tax. I think we should take the next step and remove the property tax. The property tax allowed people to walk from houses and homes that they had lived for a very long time. The risk that we might end up there again, I now see as a small one, which is gratifying. We should therefore be able to abolish property tax, which would make the road even further to reintroducing property tax. There are motions to reintroduce the inheritance tax, which I am pleased to see that we all agree to reject. Inheritance tax is counterproductive and does not add anything whatsoever to forward-looking or modern tax legislation. With those words, I am in favour of the Alliance's reservation 7.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-229	Mr President, I would like to The main task of the tax system is to finance general welfare. We have different needs for society's services and different ability to pay taxes at different stages of the life cycle. The tax system also equalises this and redeployments between individuals. The measurer of our civilization is how we treat the weakest: children, the old, those with different types of functional variations. Through the tax system, we are mobilising resources for the benefit of these groups. Tax policy should be designed in accordance with a number of guiding principles dealing with a legitimate and fair tax system, general and clear rules, taxation in close proximity to income and sustainable rules in relation to the EU. The Government considers that tax expenditure, i.e. support for households and companies on the revenue side of the budget as a result of special rules, such as reduced tax on certain goods and services, should be reviewed regularly and continuously. The tax rate in Sweden is historically low while employment is historically high. We have a government that gets people into work while not hitting pensioners, sick and unemployed, as the former bourgeois government did during its eight lost years for Sweden – years when Sweden went from surplus to deficit. Mr President, I would like to Once again, the Social Democracy, this time together with the Green Party, has sorted out after a bourgeois period of government, just as after Fälldin and Bildt. In the bourgeois proposals for state budgets, new unfunded and inefficient tax cuts are lurking, as if the 160 wasted billions in 2006–2014 were not enough. Did they give more jobs? No, unemployment was higher when Reinfeldt resigned than when he took office. This is to be remembered when our ambition for the EU's lowest unemployment rate in 2020 is mocked. We are struggling with an abandoned bourgeoisie without ideas of the future other than tax cuts and an ever-blacking right of the Swedish Democratic Party, which does not even hesitate to black out Sweden abroad. Mr President, I would like to In these reports, many proposals for tax reductions and new exemptions tend to emerge. Surprisingly, the Moderates want to double the flat-rate deduction for subletting and lower the capital gains tax. The Center wants deductions for sponsorship, art purchases and the health care of entrepreneurs. At the same time, I am pleased that the bourgeoisie is closing up on the limitations of the ROT made by the government in order to transfer money to investment aid for housing construction. Not in any reservation promised restorer. Even in the case of the capital gain tax and the interest on the deferral, the bourgeois carefully, well aware of their mistake when the state property tax was converted into a municipal property tax. Since it was all so urgent, the idea was never thought that the interest rebates should have begun to be phased out in this context. One reason for caution is that the former bourgeois government raised the capital gain tax, set a deferral cap and rescheduled interest to at least co-finance the property tax reduction. To think that this funding should now be removed quickly is not state-financially responsible, as the bourgeois understand. There are also motions and reservations about the so-called 3:12 rules for small businesses. Let me just say that we did not put forward our proposal on this issue on the basis of the threats to the state budget directed by the bourgeois parties. So the rules remain as they do, and then the reform proposals for generational change fell. You cannot have the cake and eat it, as some exercisers seem to think. In the debate, I heard something about forest accounts, and here I want to be clear: Under the government of the Centre Party by the Ministry of Enterprise and Industry, directives were put in place for the Tax Simplification Committee. One of its proposals was to abolish the forest accounts. Those who are afraid of their forest accounts should therefore ask their questions to the Center Party and Annie Lööf, because it was her investigation and investigation directive that landed in the proposal. The government, on the other hand, prepares the investigation's proposals, just like any other investigation proposal, even if they are bourgeois ones. The Tonnage tax belongs to the success stories of this government. There was a proposal already in 2006, but for Anders Borg jobs at sea were not interesting. For eight years in opposition we pushed the issue of tonnage tax and finally got it in place so that we can flag ships and jobs to Sweden again. Now some bourgeois parties are eager to evaluate the tonnage tax. I almost find this distressing in view of your previous actions on this issue. You in the Alliance have delayed, slowed down and ignored, and once the tax, to the delight of the shipping industry, is in place, it will be a huge commitment to evaluate. What should you evaluate – how many ships and jobs have you sent abroad during your eight years delay? To conclude, I hope that today in this very debate we in this House will be able to reconcile at least the proposal on the possibilities for deduction and taxation of large companies on which the government has made a legislative referral. This is a good proposal for Sweden and Sweden's entrepreneurs. It favours smaller companies, and it favours equity over loans. Sweden also gets a more competitive corporate tax in a situation when Trump threatens us in this area too. It has been a long work in which the bourgeois parties also contributed. Perhaps we should work in this way more and more often. Of course, all our parties have their own profiling needs, and it is important to show the dividing lines in politics. But when dividing lines grow into quarrels and rhetoric takes over the content of differences, that's not so good. We must keep Sweden together. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish model should be developed, not phased out. Both the general welfare state and our effective tax system are part of or contribute to the Swedish model. Swedish companies and entrepreneurs should do the right thing in the same way as ordinary employees. Real estate is a tax base we need to review. The low level of capital taxation contributes to the widening of gaps, and we must also look at this in a new tax reform. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven has wisely said that those who have a little better off can also contribute more to Sweden. Sweden will be more secure, with a better welfare and a stronger grip on crime. Sweden is stronger when we stick together. I support the proposal of the Committee on Taxation.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-250	Mr President, I would like to I choose to start where Jamal El-Haj-Haj left off on the issues of substance policy, namely corporate tax. It is true that there was a proposal last week that it should be reduced. It is a bit along the way, as you can see. But I don't think this is all the way. Jamal El-Haj-Haj himself mentioned that this could help increase Sweden's competitiveness. I have doubts as to whether that will be enough. We now see that the US has reduced its corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%. We see that England intends to reduce its corporate tax in connection with Brexit. There are several other countries that do too. Then the question is whether it will have a decisive effect on Sweden's competitiveness to reduce corporate tax by decimals. I think you should just lower it by whole numbers. I want to ask Jamal El-Haj-Haj a question. Unfortunately, I suspect that this reform is over-financed, that more taxation is levied on companies than is needed. I wonder if Jamal El-Haj-Haj can comment on that from his position in a government party. I would also like to ask you a question about generational shifts. Mr Jamal-El-Haj mentioned this in her speech. What happens in this regard? You can eat the cake and at the same time keep it. You doubt it, Jamal El-Haj-Haj. However, the fact that we did not get a tax increase in this area was crucial and extremely important. It is also possible now to look further at how we make generational changes. As we have heard before, many companies are facing retirement. I therefore wonder: what is happening to this important issue?
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-255	Mr President, I would like to I'll start where you left off, Jörgen Warborn. When we wanted to implement the 3:12 rules, you were opposed. You threatened that our entire budget would be voted down – a budget that is important to many people. We cannot therefore move forward on this issue because it is a whole package, and you cannot just take some parts of it and ignore other parts. It's about how to finance welfare. It's about how to make sure people have a job. So it's a whole package. Then you can not just take part and say that you want to implement it but not the others. As I have said, it is about eating the cake and keeping it. We are reducing corporate tax to 20.5 per cent. You mentioned the United States, which has 21%. This is therefore lower than in the United States. What is expected? Do you think we should lower it further? So this is a whole package. This is linked to the fact that the right to deduct is being reduced in this case for large companies, which benefits small companies. We are very pleased with this reform. It is a great thing that we can implement it.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-257	Mr President, I would like to Jamal El-Haj-Haj never answered the question as to whether the change in corporate tax is overfinanced or not. I honestly don't know that. But I suspect that this is the case, because I think that the reduction in corporation tax is so marginal in this case. I hope I can get an answer to that. Otherwise, there is certainly reason for me to come back to this issue in other debates. As far as generational shifts are concerned, I would like to ask why it is not possible to proceed with the part which affects precisely generational shifts. It's a whole package, says Jamal El-Haj-Haj. But I mean it's perfectly possible to break that part out. The proposal is clear and clear. Just put it on Parliament's table, and there is a majority in this House for it. Why can't you do that? As far as funding is concerned, of course, one must have a budget that goes together. I have full respect for that, and I think that is correct. But without any figures on this, I can say that these are marginal costs in this context. That is why I think you can do it if you want to. I have one more question. It concerns employee stock options. This issue is not directly related to this report, but you mention it in one of your positions. That is why I would like to ask you a question about employee stock options as well. It is good that the Social Democrats and the Green Party in government have introduced employee options. But why is it so limited? What applies is so thin and limited. That is enough for some companies, but why does one not want to use the entire space available? There are state aid rules that affect this; I am fully aware of that. But the Moderates have a proposal that is three times as powerful as what the present government has introduced. We are taking advantage of all the possibilities that exist without it being contrary to state aid rules. This means that our proposal is as competitive as that of other comparable countries. Why are Swedish companies not worth having the same competitive employee options as they have in England, for example?
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-262	Mr President, I would like to We must have order in public finances. It's very important. I don't know if corporate tax is overfunded. I can't tell you today, Jörgen Warborn. We'll have to wait and see if it's really overfunded or not. But that's not the point. The purpose is to make it even. For you, it's never enough. If we reduce corporate tax, you think we need to lower it more. Whatever we do, you have to go one more step. It's not sustainable. If Sweden is really to do well, we must ensure that there is order in public finances. Then we cannot do as you did during your time in power and have deficit after deficit. You have had the opportunity to rule the country three times – under Thorbjörn Fälldin, under Carl Bildt and most recently under Fredrik Reinfeld t for eight years. Every time you have ruled, there has been a deficit, and we have had to clean up after you. That is why we need to look at the whole. When we have a proposal, we have to look at the whole package of proposals. It's about giving and taking. I think that the reduction in corporate tax is enough. We're not going to lower it any further.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-266	Mr President, I would like to Last week, a proposal was presented for new tax rules for the business sector. It is a proposal which is originally based on recommendations from the OECD but later also on EU directives. An investigation proposal was submitted by the Corporate Tax Committee as early as summer 2014. In short, the proposal limits the possibility of interest rebates for companies. Some large companies with large loans will therefore have higher costs compared to today. However, there is an exception for new production of housing in the proposal, which is a good thing. What is also very good is that there is a limitation rule, which means that most – up 98 – 99 percent – of all companies will not be affected by the deterioration. On the other hand, the positive balance is that all companies receive reduced corporate tax. In an intermediate step it is reduced to 20.6 per cent from today's 22 per cent. It is therefore something that every company gets a share of. Nearly half a million small and medium-sized Swedish companies will be affected and will receive reduced tax without any increase in any other end. This is quite a major reform. In the past, there have been tax reductions on the company side, which have been more targeted and niched and thus limited to a smaller number. It has been about RUT, repairs, nature guides, growth support and so on. These have been important reforms but not something that everyone has taken part in. Mr President, I would like to It has been quite often discussed in the political debate about demographic developments in Sweden. Like most of the countries of Europe, we have an elderly population that is to be supported by fewer people of working age. The 40s, which were many in number, have largely begun to leave the labour market. Within 10 to 20 years, more and more people in that group will also need medical care, care for the elderly and the like, which costs more than when they are healthy pensioners. However, one related issue on which we have not talked at all as much is the age of establishment and that it has been drastically increased in quite a short time. The establishment age is a measure and means that 75 per cent of an age group has their own livelihood and home – what you could say means that someone is an adult for real. In 1990, the age of establishment was 21 years, and now in the 10th century it has grown to 29 years. Some want to explain this by the fact that today's young people raise money, travel around the world and simply don't want to become adults for real. There's something I wouldn't say different from what it was like before; there's always been a desire in young people to look around, and that's something that's also developing. I don't think that's an explanation. One explanation, however, is that we study longer. That is, of course, a good thing, but there are also things that are not positive about this. This applies to those parts that are not voluntary. The labour market has changed, and it is today much more difficult for those who do not have higher education to make it on the labour market than it was a number of decades ago. Although we now have a lower youth unemployment than we have in many years – we have not had such a low youth unemployment in 15 years – it looks very different from before. The housing market is also different today, and it is also a major concern related to this report. It's not at all the same situation. It's not as easy – if it's ever been easy – to get a home today as it was a number of decades ago. Young people who want to move find it difficult to get an apartment, and in many places the alternative is to buy a flat. It can be very expensive, and many of course do not have the opportunity to do so. Apartments are being built quickly, and it has also increased a lot during the term of office. The government has focused on support to build smaller apartments with rents that young people can afford, and an active housing policy has been pursued. However, there will have to be more reforms in the next parliamentary term. Housing reform is needed not least in order to increase mobility in the housing market. In Sweden we have quite a lot of living space per inhabitant, but it is unevenly distributed – some live large while others live crowded. Some also live very crowded, which is causing not least for children who need to do homework and other things. A reform to increase mobility could include a reduction in interest rates. Combined with the reduction of removal taxes, this could have effects. All parties in this House, except those who tend to call themselves responsible, have supported this. In fact, only the Social Democrats and the Moderates have not yet said they want to do anything about the interest rebate. I think it would be good if we could get a complete agreement on this in the Swedish Parliament so that we could have increased mobility, for that would all be valiant of – not least the young people of Sweden, who need to get out on the housing market. With this, Mr President, I support the proposal in the report.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-278	Mr President, I would like to Thank you so much for an interesting speech, Rasmus Ling! I would like to touch on one of the points you raised, and that is the corporate tax and the change that is now proposed by the government. As Rasmus Ling said, the proposal also lays down an interest deduction limit for companies. Since Rasmus Ling belongs to the Environmental Party, which is responsible for housing construction in Sweden, I would like to ask some questions about that. The companies that borrow a lot of money are the companies that build housing. A reduction in interest rates in the way now proposed will hit housing construction directly. It is not only the homes that exist today that will be more expensive to manage, but also the financing of new housing will be different. I have not been able to get answers from anywhere to the question of whether it is expected that housing construction in Sweden will decrease or not because of this change. I think it is quite reasonable to assume that the number of homes actually decreases when it becomes more expensive to finance them. What we Christian Democrats would like along with this change is to see an incentive to maintain housing in one way or another. We realise that you can't do much more than what you do in the proposal that is, but you also don't take height in any other way because housing in Sweden is actually kept up. Rasmus Ling said that there were quite a few homes built last year, which is gratifying, but we also see trends in the number of homes being built drastically decrease in 2018. With this proposal, I do not think that 2019 will look better. My question to Rasmus Ling, then, is how he views the proposal and whether there are any other proposals that will allow us to boost housing construction.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-283	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that the Christian Democrats are coming up in the debate and asking this question. As I said in my speech, there has been a proposal in which new production of housing is excluded from this. Larry Söder can therefore be quite calm about the fact that in that part there will be no impact on how many homes will be built either in 2018, 2019 or any other year to come. That is the exception, which was a very important part of the government's putting forward the proposal. Instead, the proposal, which I mentioned in the speech, contains a reduction in corporation tax. We do that for almost half a million companies. Those who pay for it are capital-intensive companies, which will suffer from a reduction in interest rates, but this will not apply to new production of housing. That was an important part, not least for the Green Party in the government, when we tabled the proposal.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-286	Mr President, I would like to The proposal is one way or another to bring forward depreciation so that an increased cost can be managed when the interest reduction limit is introduced. I don't think it's enough to keep housing building up, so I still think that the government needs to take with it and think about the question of how we can increase housing construction in 2019. When we see that it decreases in 2018, we need to think about how we can handle it in 2019. So I just wish that Rasmus Ling would take this along and bring along the discussion that exists. I do not think this is going away, but we have to deal with it in one way or another.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-288	Mr President, I would like to I think everyone in this House is very pleased that we have seen such a large increase in the number of newly produced dwellings in recent years when the Green Party has held the Ministry of Housing. I regret that there was no major reform and that, among other things, the Christian Democrats chose to drop out when there were housing policy talks. Had we been able to have a reform, I think we could have seen that we have made progress not least in terms of mobility. New production is an important part, but how we use the existing stock is perhaps an even more important part – since most homes are the ones we already have. Those that are added are at the margin. They are important, but what we already have is actually even more important. It is a pity that the Christian Democrats and other parties were unable to continue this. By then we would have been able to implement the reform with the interest and removal taxes and possibly greater mobility, which would have reduced the problem we see in the metropolitan areas but also around the country. Hopefully, constructive parties want to do something about this after the elections. In any case, the Green Party will want it – we take the housing issue seriously, and we will want to carry out reforms in the future.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-291	Mr President, I would like to Today's report contains many different issues that many people face in their everyday lives. How we as decision-makers handle the tax procedure affects virtually everyone, both individuals and companies. One of the most important changes in the area of tax procedure is the switchover between the analogue and the digital economy. Consider the amount of forms with the corrections and the hassle that could follow earlier. Today, when much is done electronically, the risk of error can be minimized. Last week we saw a gratifying evidence of this when 707 743 people declared the first day as possible, on 20 March, which is a new record. Nearly 150 000 more people chose to declare in this way than last year. Step by step, there have been fewer forms and in some areas less time spent administering. We must safeguard and strengthen this positive trend. This applies mainly at the individual level. Unfortunately, for companies, we can see that the regulatory burden continues to increase. It is also the case that Sweden stands out negatively. The World Bank, which has looked at the administration in Sweden and other countries, notes that for us it takes 122 hours a year for a company to handle corporate, labour and consumption taxes. This compares with Finland, where according to the same study it takes 93 hours, and with Norway, where it takes 83 hours. It is strange that Swedish companies should have to spend 50% more time on tax administration than a Norwegian company needs to do. That indicates we're on the wrong track. Mr President, I would like to There should not be political contradictions in this area. We should be able to agree that entrepreneurs should be entrepreneurs, not administrators and fillers. Unfortunately, however, that seems to be a long way to go. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to mention representative responsibility. We have tabled a motion on behalf of the Alliance. The rules governing the personal liability of representatives of public limited liability companies have proved to have the effect of imposing personal liability on directors in a way that does not appear proportionate. Here in Parliament, the issue has been raised several times. In April 2015, the Riksdag commissioned the Government to review the representative's responsibility and provisions, which appear to have become too harsh and thus changed in a way that does not allow legal certainty and predictability to be met. Statskontoret has been given an assignment. Unfortunately, the mission is not comprehensive and does not include reviewing the entire representation responsibility. Therefore, we want the Government to give an expanded mandate to Statskontoret to investigate the entire representative responsibility and not just a limited part. Having said that, I would like to say, Mr President, that I support the centre-party reservations, but for time-winning, I am only calling for reservation No 1. I would also like, by analogy with what I said, to endorse the Alliance's reservation No 13.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-300	Mr President, I would like to This motion for a resolution deals with six alliance reservations and three moderate reservations. We are, of course, in favour of these, but I am only in favour of alliance reservation 13, of personal liability, and of reservation 8 by the Moderates, which is a review of tax decisions. Mr President, I would like to The basis for all our common welfare is work. It is by people working, running companies and paying taxes that we create the conditions for a social responsibility where we both share the common and can support individuals when life takes an unexpected turn. Taxes play an important role in financing our common welfare functions. Taxes must therefore be designed to ensure tax revenues without creating unnecessary barriers, costs and threshold effects. It is important that the tax system is transparent and legitimate and that, in accordance with the Tax Agency's judgment, it should be easy to do the right thing. It must be made more transparent so that workers can clearly see from the pay statement what of the salary is tax and employers' contributions. Tax collection must be visible and easy to understand. The Financial Control Agency should therefore be tasked with investigating how the tax system can become more transparent. It is reasonable for the Swedish Tax Agency to inform residents about the impact of the job tax deduction on total taxation of labour income. Today there are taxes that counterproductively inhibit growth and employment without contributing to increased tax revenues. The drive to work must not be hampered by high taxes and weak incentives to work. Support for supply, which in its design and application has weak incentives to work, often leads to marginal effects of over 100%. That is completely unreasonable! Now we are seeing an increase in the payment of supply aid. Sweden is doing well financially, but if we scrape the facade, it is obvious that parts of Sweden are doing really well while a large number of municipalities are wrestling with unemployment of over 10 percent – in boom. Where are the reforms of the government, which are necessary in the face of the recession that we all know will come? Mr President, I would like to The challenges of demography are worrying. The situation in Sweden today is serious, as one person will support 1.74 people. This means that almost two people are to be supported by one person in tax terms. It is therefore primary and urgent that more people be helped to contribute to our common welfare, and that can only be done through work. But then enterprise policy must be supportive and make it easier for companies to operate and employ. We from the Alliance have repeatedly drawn attention to the need for a review of certified cash registers. It is eight years since the rules were introduced. When we meet the relevant traders, their stories are lined up with technical problems and concerns about not being able to apply the rules properly. There is a need for a review of the application of cash registers – urgently! Sweden needs more companies, not fewer. The jobs created in the private sector are essential for maintaining the welfare society. We need companies that think new and forward and dare to take risks. Therefore, the thresholds for starting a business must be lowered and information on how to start a business must be improved. Young Entrepreneurship is a great way for young people to try entrepreneurship from ax to loaf. UF is a successful nursery for many students who later in life start their own. Unfortunately, not all students get the opportunity to start UF companies. We hope and believe that many more will have that opportunity. Today, students who start up UF companies have to liquidate their businesses. Since Sweden's growth depends entirely on entrepreneurship, the Swedish Tax Agency should be tasked with reviewing the possibility of a fast track for students from UF regulations to F-tax bill and simplification to sell services. There could be a smooth transition from UF to setting up a regular business. The rapidly growing collaborative economy is changing and challenging our traditional notions of the functioning of the economy, the relationship between employers and employees and the design of future tax systems. But here too, order and order are needed by drawing up an action plan to enable the relevant authorities to meet the requirements and functioning of the digital economy. Legislation must keep pace with developments, not least with regard to integrity. Mr President, I would like to Tax evasion, tax evasion and aggressive tax planning must be constantly and clearly combated. At the same time, all serious companies must be given reduced tax administration. All this must be balanced, which the government has not succeeded in doing. Today's tax administration is complicated and takes time, and there is constant concern among entrepreneurs about making mistakes, as many new entrepreneurs testify. Not infrequently has this hindered companies to start and hire. It is extremely serious if Sweden's growth is hampered by an attitude of the government parties supported by the Left, which places an additional tax administrative burden on companies. Instead, we Moderates want to make it easier for companies by commissioning the Swedish Tax Agency to simplify companies' accounting through reliable digital solutions. Unfortunately, the Swedish Tax Agency's digital tangle many times over the past year has caused major problems and additional work for entrepreneurs. Mr President, I would like to Predictability is a key word for both companies and individuals. However, when the Tax Agency changes the application of tax rules, the conditions change overnight. Companies and individuals have not been given any opportunity to prepare for this. The result is often tax decisions that lead to large tax debts. We Moderates therefore want the Government to investigate the possibilities of limiting the Swedish Tax Agency's ability to make retroactive decisions when no new circumstances have emerged in the individual case. Is there anyone who seriously believes that railway tracks will be extended to every community and village and that there will also be commuting traffic for jobs and studies? No, it's impossible. For many people who choose and choose to live and work in the country, the car is necessary. The travel allowance is a prerequisite for not incurring unreasonable costs, but deductions are not always made truthfully, according to several studies. But with today's technology it is easy to control how the deduction is used. We Moderates therefore want the Swedish Tax Agency to streamline the control of the use of the travel allowance by using new technology. Mr President, I would like to The government has increased taxes and charges with surgical precision, which hampers entrepreneurship, diligence and responsibility. The results of this term of office are subsidised bicycles, nature guides, doubled care queues, reduced police density and sick people who end up between the chairs when the Social Insurance Agency will save. Sweden needs more people who work and pay reasonable taxes and a policy that affirms entrepreneurship and the core of well-being.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-319	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats believe that the Swedish Tax Agency should work for the maintenance of tax morality, reduced tax errors and good service to not least entrepreneurs. We see a need to create a clearer annual report on the state's tax expenditure and its socio-economic benefits. It is also important that citizens have a good knowledge of what taxes they actually pay. The export industry is the engine that creates the conditions for Sweden's welfare development and generates the resources needed to finance the maintenance of welfare. It is therefore important that the government takes responsibility for creating the conditions necessary for the Swedish export industry to develop effectively, which requires a variety of measures that together build an active and offensive industrial policy. An important such measure is that Sweden strengthens its bi- and multilateral contacts with other countries in the tax field. The shortcomings in the pace of signing new tax agreements and upgrading and complementing existing tax agreements mean that the conditions for the competitiveness of the Swedish export industry are deteriorating, if not day by day, at least year by year. In the long term, Sweden may lose much of the tax base for corporate taxation if we do not have internationally competitive tax conditions for our internationally active companies. It cannot therefore be ruled out that the shortcomings in the work on bilateral tax agreements have contributed to the stagnation of economic development in Sweden. Within the framework of the OECD's work on a comprehensive package of measures against tax evasion and profit shifting, the so-called BEPS, a problem that has expanded considerably as globalisation has developed, a convention for a multilateral tax agreement has been developed. It offers a range of opportunities to reduce the complexity of tax treaties and to create a better regime for updating tax treaties for certain measures in this area. Sweden has signed an agreement to apply the Convention, subject to certain restrictions, as applicable in the Swedish Tax Convention. This means that existing tax treaties will need to be updated, also because of this addition. We welcome the fact that Sweden has taken this step and also believe that the government should dedicate sufficient resources to complete the implementation of the new additions, which will require the renegotiation of a wide range of tax treaties. We have pointed this out on several occasions and in different contexts, but the government has not shown very strong signs of wanting to remedy it. I would therefore like to ask for the approval of Amendment No 20. Mr President, I would like to Now I shall do something that I have never done before and agree with the two previous speakers on reservation No 13. Three years ago, the committee decided on a wording in report 2014/ 15:SkU20, which reads as follows: The committee believes that there is a need to review the rules on representative liability as soon as possible and whether the application of the rules should be amended in order to increase legal certainty and predictability and improve the conditions for setting up, running and developing businesses and reduce the risk of viable companies being wound up unnecessarily. ..................................................... This resulted in the Government giving Statskontoret the task of investigating the matter last September. However, as has been noted, it does not cover the aspect of gross negligence, which is an important issue. The Swedish democrats were behind this at the time and are doing so even now, so I am in favour of reservation 13.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-326	Mr President, I would like to In the 2018 budget bill, it is clearly stated that the Swedish model is based on the fact that everyone contributes to our common welfare. It is this act of solidarity from every worker throughout the years that has held Sweden together. That is why it is deeply worrying when some people choose not to contribute their share to the treasury, and so is business. Our whole well-being is based on the principle of solidarity that we should all contribute so that we can all be well off. In my speech, I will focus on two important issues. The first concerns the role of banks. Internationally, there is a debate on the role of banks in aggressive tax planning. Banks, audit firms, tax lawyers and tax consultants earn a lot of money from providing advice and services that lead to tax evasion as well as aggressive tax planning. It is clear that these advisers are an important part of the tax evasion industry. It is good that the government has agreed with the Left Party to set up an investigation to force them to report new tax schemes. We are very much in favour of that. The European Commission has recently put forward a proposal requiring banks and other financial intermediaries to report in advance all cross-border tax schemes they make on behalf of customers to the respective national tax authorities if they have certain characteristics. In principle, all financial assets are invested with banks or other financial intermediaries. One might say that without banks there will be no transfers to tax havens. Economist Daniel Waldenström has pointed out in an article on ekonomistas.se that penalties must be harsh for banks when it comes to helping hide money. Waldenström says that fines are probably not enough as punishment because the banks and their owners are so solid; they have a lot of money. He believes that a bank that has repeatedly been guilty of tax evasion should have its right to act as a bank in Sweden withdrawn, i.e. lose its banking octroy. The Left Party agrees with this position. The government should produce legislation that means that a bank that repeatedly contributes to aggressive tax schemes will lose its right to act as a bank in Sweden. This should be supported by Parliament and made known to the government. I would like to make another point quickly. It's about letterbox companies. In spring 2016 the so-called Panama documents revealed that the Panama-based law firm Mossack Fonseca had helped a lot of wealthy individuals hide income and wealth through so-called letterbox companies. In this way these individuals had not paid taxes. Letterbox companies are non-business companies. They're just for the name. The most common reason for starting a letterbox company is that you want to hide income you have had, at home or abroad. The government should review the possibilities of banning letterbox companies whose sole purpose is tax planning. This should be supported by Parliament and made known to the government. In the context of the ongoing negotiations on a new directive for public country-by-country reporting, the Government will work to reduce the reporting threshold. Efforts should be made to remove provisions allowing Member States to temporarily exempt certain parts of the information to be published by companies and to ensure that the reporting obligations of companies apply fully to non-EU countries. It is also argued that Sweden has a responsibility for allowing developing countries to sit at the table when work against tax evasion and aggressive tax planning is discussed and decided. Sweden should work towards the creation, within the framework of the UN, of a body in which developing countries are involved to combat tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. As a major donor, Sweden should support developing countries in setting up functioning tax collection structures and supporting civil society so that they can act as watchdogs in demanding responsibility from politicians and companies. This should be supported by Parliament and made known to the government. I am behind all the reservations of the Left Party, but for time to come, I am in favour of reservation 17.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-339	Mr President, I would like to We politicians often throw ourselves with many different figures when we talk about taxes and tax pressures and try to claim that we as citizens pay a lot or little tax. I would argue that our tax burden is high. The tax burden in Sweden declined during the years of alliance government, a trend that this government has made its biggest task to break. In 2017, Sweden had the fifth highest tax burden within the OECD. The tax burden has increased from 42.6 per cent in 2014 to 43.9 per cent in 2017. However, studies show that Swedes in common do not know how high the tax burden is. One reason for this is that much of the tax burden can be described as hidden and not visible to the citizen. If much of the taxes are hidden from the citizens, it is more difficult to create opinion for lower taxes but at the same time easier to raise taxes. In order for confidence in the tax system to continue to be great in the future, we need to do what we can to provide information on how it works and how much tax we actually charge. In order to clarify to the individual employee how much tax and social security contributions he or she pays, employers' contributions should be indicated on the pay statement. The data should cover both the statutory contributions and the contributions agreed with the trade unions, so-called contractual insurance and contractual pensions. Some employers in both the private and public sectors already report this today, but most employees do not receive this information. In this context, too, the public sector should set an example and, as a matter of urgency, make taxes and contributions visible to the wage statement. Mr President, I would like to Since the entry into force of the new rules on cash registers on 1 January 2010, it has emerged that there are some uncertainties as to how the law is interpreted and applied. For example, it has proved difficult to apply the rules in a legally secure manner. Countless examples exist that entrepreneurs want to do the right thing but that weather and wind prevent. We need to review the Cash Register Act, as it meets travelling market dealers in a way that cannot be right and proper. Torg dealers who want to do the right thing should not be prevented from doing so due to weather and wind. We need to look at this and find a way of taxing the activities of mobile market dealers that can be controlled differently from through cash registers. More recently, attention has been paid to several cases where individual entrepreneurs have suffered legal losses in tax proceedings despite the fact that they have finally been right in the proceedings. Anyone who, in accordance with the decision of the Swedish Tax Agency, has a tax or charge to pay is obliged to pay it even if the decision has not gained legal force. The Tax Agency may grant a period of grace, but if this is not done, it means that the entrepreneur will have to pay the debt before it has gained legal force and pay something that may never be legally enforceable. There should be a review of the deferral rules in tax cases. In order to strengthen legal certainty in tax cases, the general rule should be that a period of grace should be granted. The same applies in order to improve the remuneration rules in tax cases. It should be possible for companies to apply for interim compensation for litigation costs pending appeal by the Swedish Tax Agency. In recent times it has also been noted that entrepreneurs who have made minor mistakes have received quite large tax surcharges, which seem unreasonable and perhaps testify to a somewhat rigid approach from our authority – an authority that still has quite good reputation among us citizens. My wish, as we move forward with the simplification and digitisation of information gathering is that we try to see ourselves both as an authority and as a helping hand for companies to be able to do the right thing, when it is clear that there has been no evil intent. Simplification is necessary when we are asking for more and more data at an increasing number of times. Doing the right thing as an entrepreneur should be the preferred option but also the simple option. We can, of course, help in this House to speed up the process of simplifying the tax rules as far as possible and, as far as VAT is concerned, to try to keep to a VAT rate as far as possible. It will be easier to account for, check and follow. With those words, I would like to endorse the Christian Democrats' reservation 16 and the Alliance's reservation 13.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-350	Mr President, I would like to The tax procedure concerns the definition of the legal obligation of citizens and entrepreneurs to pay taxes and contributions to the State or other social bodies. The main purpose of taxation is to finance the public sector, whose core is health care, school and care, but also such things as police, justice and defence. However, the tax may also have other purposes, such as levelling income or affecting persons' actions. Through taxes, we also fund major social investments in various forms of infrastructure: railways, roads, housing and more. People's willingness to work is the foundation of prosperity in Sweden, whether they choose to become entrepreneurs or employees. We Social Democrats have nothing against entrepreneurs, quite the contrary: we need more entrepreneurs. But entrepreneurs are no better people than employees. Employees are at least as talented and creative as entrepreneurs, which is expressed in the fact that employees in their workplace often contribute to inventions, product development and improvements in production processes and working methods. The bourgeois parties would like to inform more about taxes and social security contributions on the grounds that it is difficult to form opinion against lower taxes. That is how we can think, of course, but we must also make it clear that social security contributions are not taxes, but leave no room for salary to be paid in order to secure the benefits we have from the social security system, such as sickness benefits, and future pensions. The alternative to levying these contributions would be that they were paid instead as wages to the employees, who were then allowed to take out these insurance policies privately. We Social Democrats know that collective social insurance of the kind we have built up in Sweden is a better way to guarantee a general welfare of high quality for as many people as possible. At school, in Parliament's information and through the Swedish Tax Agency, there is extensive information about why we need taxes. The error, I think, is that information about what large, unfunded tax cuts mean is not given. They mean fewer places in care for the elderly, fewer nurses, fewer teachers, fewer prosecutors who can prosecute, fewer police officers who can arrest criminals and fewer Viggen planes that can defend Sweden. That is what large, unfunded tax cuts mean, and this should perhaps also be made known, preferably also on the basis of pay slips. Mr President, I would like to Combating tax evasion and tax evasion remains a high political priority. It must be combated so that business owners who do the right thing are not forced to compete with fraudsters and cheaters who use undeclared labour and ignore taxes and charges and can therefore dump their prices, for example in procurement. The Government of Reinfeldt implemented the reform with certified cash registers in 2010 and also abolished the exemption for market and market dealers on 1 January 2014. What remained for the new government to resolve was the question of the foreign market outlets, for which the tax evasion window was closed in 2017. Together we have done this well, and your request for evaluation will certainly be relevant in the future. Now, however, it feels something early to do, given that the last window was closed in 2017. Even when it comes to staff and unannounced inspections in various industries, we have acted together, and the bourgeoisie has been involved. I note that there is no reservation on this issue but that enlargement has full support among the bourgeois parties. Our social democratic and environmental party government has also happily set up an F tax investigation. The purpose of the review is, inter alia, to combat tax evasion and tax evasion. The investigation will also look at the question of whether employees are forced to become entrepreneurs or contractors in order to keep their jobs. Mr President, I would like to The IRS is like the police. It stands for order. It is an authority that has taken great steps from bureaucratism to service agencies. It is an authority that has taken even greater steps in digital development. Through the tax procedure, the Tax Agency ensures that the taxes that we in Parliament have legislated on are levied. Of course the IRS is wrong. Even the Pope is not infallible. Wrongs should be corrected. Sometimes there is also a need to review individual tax decisions as well as the interpretation of tax legislation. But basically taxation is something good and healthy. It is a cornerstone of maintaining confidence in democracy, because without taxes the state cannot deliver anything to the citizens. Without everything financed by taxation, democracy would be empty and voting meaningless. The young Social Democracy, which put democracy and the right to vote at the heart of its agitation, understood this well, knowing that it could then begin to build a welfare state with the help of democracy. The welfare state is in place, but its conditions are constantly changing in terms of old and new challenges. Even in the 1960s, who thought that the life expectancy of citizens would be a major economic challenge? Mr President, I would like to We will need a new cross-block tax reform of the same kind as the 1990-1991 one. It will not be about reducing taxes, but rather about the level of taxation we need to keep to in the long term in order to meet the challenges of the future. Having said that, Mr President, I would like to support the committee's proposal in its Sku12 report and reject all reservations.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-364	Mr President, I would like to Yes, Maria Strömkvist, it is interesting to listen to this about tax increases and reductions. You have increased taxes, and care queues have never been longer than during this parliamentary term. Anyone in need of assistance has never been more worried. There's a lot more sparse between the cops than ever. And now, according to the government's proposal, the blind will account for costs with a receipt. We can see that there is a majority in favour of a declaration of representative responsibility. This is an issue that we in the Alliance have been pushing for years. This is terribly unfair to many. This also means that many people who want to start a business or enter a company do not dare, because they then get disproportionate liability for payment. As early as 2015, the government received a notice regarding representative liability – it is therefore a personal liability when you are a member of a company board. They returned in 2017 with about half the mission. Half the announcement had been put into an investigation. What we are now pushing is that you have to take the whole part. So we say, "Do it again, do it right!" In what came in mission form in 2017, there were no props about gross negligence. Then I wonder: how will you deal with this now? The government chose – you chose – not to take the full announcement, but only did some. Now there will be a majority to do the right thing.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-368	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it's just like Lotta Finstorp says. Now there will be a majority for an announcement. It became clear a moment ago when we saw that the Swedish Democrats were once again hooking arms with the bourgeoisie. Then I guess the government will just have to come back. What is a bit unserious about the proposal is that this should be reported on 1 April 2018. It feels a bit like you're throwing something in quickly without thinking. But we'll see what the government returns with after we've voted, and we'll see how the vote goes tomorrow.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-370	Mr President, I would like to As for the date, April 1, 2018, I think we can live with moving it a few months ahead. But it must be right now, so that this whole proposal is included in the investigation. It has to change. It should be easy to do the right thing – that's the tax office's motto. I think all parties can sign that it is really very good. It has to be that way. Then legislation must also comply with that motto – that it should be easy to do the right thing. It is therefore strange that the red-green parties are saying no to our proposals, which are aimed at making it easier for both individuals and entrepreneurs to do the right thing. Today, many people live with anxiety in their stomachs: What if I do wrong? I also know that the Swedish Tax Agency has almost always had computer failure when the VAT is to be reported, for example. Then you have to e-mail the Swedish Tax Agency and request some kind of deferment until the Swedish Tax Agency's digitized system works again. Even when it comes to the Cash Register Act, entrepreneurs are very afraid to make mistakes. It's about weather and wind, just as we've heard Larry Söder bring up. I also mentioned this in my speech. It is a real and real problem in everyday life that needs to be addressed. The IRS has made its own review, but it would need a much larger one, where much more is being grasped. We have also been doing this during this parliamentary term. It's been eight years now. Of course there is much to look at around this. What the IRS requires technically does not work. Besides, it's not weatherproof. There is a story about the market entrepreneur who stands on Jokkmokk's market in 25 minus and cannot do right because the system does not work when it is severe cold. What do you think of that?
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-374	Mr President, I would like to Of course, it should be easy to do the right thing, just as Lotta Finstorp says. A tax system with several hundred exceptions does not exactly facilitate. Perhaps the most important thing is to redo and do the right thing, so take action throughout the tax system to make it easy to do the right thing. But the exercise, about which you have a reservation, is not really about it, it is about not being able to correct what you have done wrong. I think it is not always easy to be in the majority and try to please everyone. Sometimes opposition seems just as difficult. When the government presents a long-awaited proposal or an impact assessment, it is often criticised by the opposition in terms of its being too little and too late. Mr President, I would like to I have virtually no experience of being in opposition. But I'm thinking that if the accident were to occur, I would actually have as a guiding principle to be consistent.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-377	Mr President, I would like to Those who have the most difficulty in asserting their case are usually smaller individual actors who stand against the State and its authorities. These may be appeals in general, and they may relate to specific circumstances for certain occupational categories. In both cases, they have a substantial uphill when the state, tax courts and administrative courts are given preference for interpretation and when the individual becomes financially discriminated against. It is about legal certainty for small and large, at sea and on land. Let me give you two examples of my two motions, which are dealt with in this report. Fighting against authorities in court may have its price. The rules on compensation in tax cases provide that a person who has incurred in a case or case costs for representation, representation, investigation or other matters which he or she has reasonably needed to exercise his or her right is also entitled to compensation if the applicant's claims in the case are accepted in whole or in part. Compensation can also be obtained if the question is of importance for the application of the law or if there are particular reasons for the compensation. The assessment of the costs that the applicant may reasonably have incurred in order to safeguard his or her interests varies greatly on a case-by-case basis. Mr President, I would like to A government investigation from 2013 shows that anyone who wins in full or in part approval in a tax case receives an average of 49 per cent of their representation costs covered. The remaining 51 per cent you have to stand for yourself – even when it is the state that through the Swedish Tax Agency has been wrong from the beginning! The scheme means that you can never count on having your attorney's costs covered, even when you're right. Ultimately, in practice, it means that it is primarily larger companies and people with financial resources who can take a tax case to court and pay for their agent. Many small entrepreneurs and ordinary citizens cannot afford even to win in court because they cannot count back the costs paid to defend themselves. All people, regardless of their financial resources, should be able to defend their rights in tax cases. Above all, you should be sure that when you win, you will get your representation costs covered. Therefore, the regulatory framework for the remuneration rules in tax cases needs to be reviewed. It would be to the benefit of greater legal certainty and would help to ensure that more people actually dare to fight for their rights. Mr President, I would like to Another example is seamen. A large number of Swedes working on Norwegian supply ships are now taxed after a new interpretation of the Nordic tax agreement. The case has reached the top of the Tax Law Board and concerns how the Nordic tax agreement should be interpreted. For some years now, the Swedish Tax Agency has made a new interpretation of how people from one Nordic country who work on board supply ships in another Nordic country should be taxed. It is about that Swedes who have worked on Norwegian sockets have previously only paid taxes in Norway. Nowadays they will pay full tax in Norway, partly in Sweden but then after the Norwegian tax has been deducted. Previously, all Swedish sailors in Norway were taxed equally, regardless of the type of boat they worked on. Around 2010 the Swedish Tax Agency started to add taxes on Swedish sailors on Norwegian supply boats in Norway. As the Swedish Tax Agency says, the Swedish Tax Agency claims that the Government intends to add taxes to Swedish employees on Norwegian supply boats in Norway. This while all other Swedish sailors on all other types of boats are exempt from the Swedish additional tax. For the individual seafarer, it may be a matter of paying an additional tax of between SEK 30 000 and SEK 100 000 – amounts that are significant for any private person, regardless of income. The actual dispute, that is to say, the wording of the Nordic Tax Agreement on which the Tax Agency is now basing its additional taxes, is complicated to say the least. What has changed and caused everything is that ships are now described in one state instead of another. The many ambiguous wordings contained in the tax agreements have affected a large number of Swedes working on Norwegian supply ships. Seamen are relatively not a large professional category in Sweden. Therefore, such an unreasonable relationship can continue without enough light being put on the question. I had an interpellation debate about this with the Minister of Finance the other year. Remarkably, I was met with total incomprehension from the Minister, who also felt that the issue was not very urgent as it – listen now – was about a fairly well-paid group. Seamen — a well - paid group! Swedish seamen serving in other countries, as well as all other professions, people and companies, need reasonable rules and tax conditions to work by. It is therefore necessary for the Government to review the tax conditions applicable to Swedish seafarers serving in other countries in order to eliminate the subsequent effects of double taxation. Mr President, I would like to With these two examples, I have shown that those who have the most difficulty in asserting their case and do not have enough resources are usually smaller, individual actors who stand against the state and its authorities. It should be about legal certainty for small and large, at sea and on land. With this, I would ask you to join my colleague, Lotta Finstorp, in his motion.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-392	Mr President, I would like to As we are now debating the report on human resources, I would like to say that any individual adjustment of existing regulations with any justification can be considered to serve a purpose. But it is precisely an adjustment, an extension of existing regulations, and as such it will be another stone on the burden for Sweden's entrepreneurs. The Government's proposal for an extended human resources system is estimated to increase the administrative costs for companies by more than SEK 30 million annually. Mr President, I would like to When we are debating further rules today, I would like to emphasise the processes surrounding new rules but also how the political system dealing with new rules needs to change. All steps that take time from the company's main job cost money and energy. Every hour spent filling out a form or otherwise presenting data is a lost hour from the entrepreneur's and job-creator's point of view. Therefore, we must be vigilant on the burdens that we place on the shoulders of entrepreneurs. The largest proportion of companies in Sweden are small businesses, which are hard hit because they do not have any special staff employed to handle the rules. Mr President, I would like to It is absolutely crucial that this large-scale enlargement takes account of the criticism of existing rules. Criticism mainly refers to uncertainties in the case of collective human resources. This hampers the development of digital solutions that facilitate the use of human resources but also ensure a high quality of the information collected. It is particularly important to take this into account, as it aims to reduce the administrative costs for companies that are required to comply with the regulatory framework. The Government therefore needs to ensure that the rules on collective personnel in construction are applied uniformly by the Swedish Tax Agency and that the rules are clear and easy to follow. Such measures would make it easier for businesses to do the right thing. The quality of the information collected would be increased, and it will ultimately be a better basis for the Swedish Tax Agency to use it in order to prevent tax evasion. Mr President, I would like to The aim of human resources workers is to help reduce the incidence of undeclared work and to create a more favourable and competitive environment. Requirements for human resources are introduced in activities where undeclared work is deemed to exist. Mr President, I would like to Having said that, I would like to conclude by calling for the Alliance's reservation 1 to be approved.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-400	Mr President, I would like to Work and work are the foundation of our well-being. The fact that more people are making an effort and striving to do the right thing is the basis for our common society. Businesses and entrepreneurs are at the root of growth and development, which provides the opportunity to strengthen the welfare of individuals, vulnerable and weak in everyday life. That work must continue. We must see entrepreneurship as the basis for common welfare. From there comes the tax revenue that enables us to do something better for those who are currently at risk. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a small, highly export-dependent country where entrepreneurship on average creates four out of five jobs. Then we cannot exert ourselves too much or even take on the burden on companies. With regard to business administration and regulatory burdens, we must consider in each individual clubb what we can do to simplify and ease the regulatory burden on businesses. Above all, we should make it easier to do the right thing. Digitisation, Mr President, makes it easier for everyone to make efforts to create the right tools. The authorities must continue to do so. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates and the Alliance are behind efforts to help reduce the incidence of undeclared work and to create a healthier competitive environment. It is important and proper to make it easier to do the right thing and that it should be easy to do the right thing. This is linked to our common tax code, which is obviously combined with a good tax justice, that is to say, that companies are not burdened with increased costs either. This is not just about administration and the regulatory burden, but also, of course, about pure corporate taxation. Mr President, I would like to The Government's proposal is based on making it easier and easier to do the right thing. At the same time, those who constantly look at the government's work point out that the government says one thing when it really becomes another thing. The government says that it prioritises regulatory improvements and simplifications for companies, but when 64 per cent in a survey from last year answers that the regulatory burden has increased and become heavier, it is not positive for the government or for the Swedish companies. Another international survey also has great concern about the administrative burden in Swedish companies in relation to other companies in our surrounding world. The World Bank highlights, among other things, that Sweden in the ranking is, if you only look at the onerous tax system, far worse than to our surrounding world. According to the World Bank, it takes 122 hours a year for a Swedish company to handle corporate, labour and consumption taxes, the so-called regulatory burden. In similar countries, such as Finland, it is only 93 hours compared to 122 hours. In Norway, it's 83 hours. In the Government's own expert authority, the Swedish Agency for Growth's overall picture shows a significant increase in the regulatory burden for Swedish companies during 2016 and 2017. There is talk of running costs for new and changed rules during these two years of over SEK 4.7 billion – increased load and costs. This is not what they say, Mr President, but it is the reality. That is why the alliance parties have jointly put forward another proposal in the Tax Committee to clarify the importance of returning and reducing the regulatory burden. Mr President, I would like to I am somewhat concerned that it is not only in terms of what is said about the regulatory burden that the government does not live up to what it says, but also in terms of quality assurance of Swedish welfare. The proposal is that taxes should now be increased for body and beauty care. It is a business that in Sweden has increased explosively in recent years. More people work there, and there are many more consumers. Nevertheless, it is one of the industries in Sweden that is perhaps least regulated by everyone. Although it is really about everyone's health and well-being, the government has chosen not to regulate the industry, not to follow up with quality measurements and thus to stand out in relation to many other countries. It is not a question of having consumer law on the part of the consumer. This is often where the consumer ends up between the chairs. The Alliance government chose to investigate the matter. The investigation came to the Government Office in 2015, and there it has been squaloring. Since then, many more consumers have fallen between the chairs. Mr President, I would like to Now the government chooses to go forward with an increased tax return for the industry, but the government chooses to do nothing about strengthening the quality of the welfare of those who choose to use Swedish body and beauty care. It is an industry that is growing rapidly today. It takes to speak with a split tongue. As with the regulatory burden, we are also doing so in terms of the quality of our welfare. Mr President, I would like to We want to safeguard the Swedish competitiveness of Swedish companies and their growth. We want to reduce the regulatory burden on businesses and the administrative cost. We have therefore exercised ourselves on this matter, and I would like to support Amendment No 1.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-411	Mr President, I would like to This is not a debate for or against the bill as such. The Swedish Democrats support the bill. What we have followed up on is that the system of human resources should be evaluated and that the government should work for a simplified administration for the smaller companies in particular. We believe that it is important to tackle undeclared work both in order for all taxpayers to do their own thing and in order to ensure that law-abiding workers are not disadvantaged by competition from companies engaged in dishonest activities. It should never be a competitive disadvantage to be honest. At the same time, it is of great importance that Swedish companies are not burdened by unnecessary bureaucracy and excessive charges. As you know, the small and medium-sized enterprises that manage to grow create the vast majority of new jobs in Sweden. A sound policy must be based on enabling the growth of these companies. In recent years, the Swedish Democrats have put forward a number of proposals to this effect, including a reduction in sickness pay and a reduction in the general wage contribution. A good business environment, combined with fair rules and sound enforcement, ensures good conditions for economic growth, new jobs and competition on equal terms. Another important factor in removing incentives to cheat on taxes and charges is to ensure that the tax system is relevant, i.e. that paid taxes are used efficiently and optimally – or as optimally as possible in any case. We must therefore have a tax system that ensures that Swedish companies have a good competitive position in relation to the outside world. The levying of taxes and various charges should therefore not deviate too much from the conditions of our environment. Among other things, there are concerns that the Government's proposal risks placing a burden on smaller companies through increased administration. A figure of 30 million was mentioned by a previous speaker. I have received data on increased IT costs of 40% for some small businesses. The Government should therefore seek more favourable conditions for these by commissioning the Swedish Tax Agency to simplify the management of the human rights function and the reporting of salaries for small companies in particular. The introduction of the extension of requirements for human resources to more sectors needs to be done with consideration. The impact of the requirement on human resources in the industries introduced by the Alliance Government should be assessed, and an evaluation of the inclusion in the sectors now covered, i.e. automotive services, food and tobacco wholesale activities, body and beauty care activities should be carried out by a well-founded estimate of the tax error due to incorrect personnel accounting, both before and after the introduction of the new rules. If you know that you are taking the right action to solve a problem, the decisive factor is that the measure will also be relevant and effective. There are investigations by the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Commerce Federation which to a certain extent point in different directions. They show that the issue is not entirely self-evident, and there may be the possibility of adjusting principles and approaches to how human resources are prescribed and used. It is therefore important that the government investigates the matter in a serious and well-thought-out way so that we can build a system for human resources that we know will have the desired effect. I am in favour of reservation 2 in the report.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-419	Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the report and reject the motions. Tax evasion, tax evasion, and fraud of subsidies eat up the morals of society. The last time we quantified, 133 billion was assumed to be evaded in tax evasion. Furthermore, there were 20 billion in subsidy fraud, of which 10 billion were considered to be technical errors in the systems. Most recently, Lars-Erik-Erik Lövdén has investigated the welfare crime in a commendable way and produced a number of important proposals. For the Social Democratic-led government, it is high priority to combat cheating in all its forms. The Government has presented a twelve-point programme covering both national measures and international cooperation. Human resources are one in a series of measures that work in the direction of curbing cheating. A staffier means that you should be able to enter a workplace and identify that there are 15 employees in the staff league; someone else does not bother in the firm. The tax authority will then have the opportunity to check that this is the case. When first introduced in 2007, for restaurants and hairdressers, most of the professional organisations were positive. We noted that 3 000 to 5 000 more employees were employed in the restaurant industry through this measure. So, in the light, they developed what was once in the gray area or black. It became white, and employees' wages increased by 1 billion. I would like to point out – as is clear, Mr President – that I cut my hair white. Now we want to move on with human resources. I note that after the Swedish Tax Agency's memorandum, the following comments have been made, positive and favorable: the Swedish Association of Small Enterprises, the Association of Automotive Workshops, the Association of Motor Industries, the Association of Tyre Specialists, the Association of Glass Industries, the Swedish Commerce Federation, the Association of Body Therapy Professionals, the Confederation of Swedish Estetics, the Swedish Association of Hudtherapists, the Swedish Registered Tatuers and the Association of Safe Piercing. They all think that undeclared work is a major problem for serious actors. Measures to curb undeclared work and maintain fair competition are welcomed. In this context, human resources are seen as an important measure. Mr President, I would like to Preventing undeclared work also strangles the nutrition of crime. This is another step towards countering unfair competition, which unfairly exaggerates Swedish morals.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-427	Mr President, I would like to I wasn't going to focus on what we agree on. I was going to focus on where we differ. I was going to ask Peter Persson and the Social Democrats about the motto that it should be easy to do the right thing. In what way does Peter Persson believe that the government is working to make it easier for companies to do the right thing and not to burden them with greater regulatory burdens?
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-429	Mr President, I would like to I read out the names of a wide range of professional organisations that I didn't even know they existed. Everyone thinks that human resources workers, as we are now discussing, are something beneficial and not at all too complicated and difficult. They are not perceived as a burden, but as a way of keeping out unfair competition and undeclared work. I note that Cecilia Widegren, after all the speech in her speech on trouble with rules and hassles, wants to regulate those who paint nails and lift tails and whatever it may be in the beauty industry. She wants regulation in there, and she accuses the government that it does not urgently go in and regulate an industry. Talk about self-goal without goalie!
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-431	Mr President, I would like to It's a little dangerous to stumble on the words of rhetoric. It's easy to say one thing and do another. It is clear here. The government says that it takes account of what the consultation bodies say and that it does not burden companies or others with greater regulatory burdens, but in fact it does exactly the opposite. The Government's own agency, the Swedish Agency for Growth, notes that the World Bank and the entrepreneurs themselves in the investigations they carry out. Then you have to rethink and do the right thing – or say something else if you don't want to do something about it. If you do not want to strengthen the quality of the welfare of those who work in the health industry, you should do exactly as Peter Persson says. Then you should ignore the type of quality certification that Sweden today does not have but that many other countries in Europe have. This causes consumers to fall between two chairs. My question to Peter Persson was quite simple. If you are now going to live up to the conviction that it should be easy to do the right thing, why not take the chance and the opportunity to redo and do the right thing and use more of the opportunities available in digitalization and other things to make it even easier and cheaper and perhaps even more uniform for entrepreneurs to do more right from the start? When are those proposals coming from this government? Or do we have time to change government before it's possible?
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-435	Mr President, I would like to I often meet entrepreneurs and business associations. I note in the referral that there is strong support for this proposal. When I meet entrepreneurs individually, they rarely talk about tax pressures, regulatory problems or LAS. Trained labour and infrastructure – that's the kind of issues they address. When you talk white about all the hassle, as Cecilia Widegren does, I usually say: and here is my email address. Welcome on Friday with all the rules that are complicated! I don't get any e-mails. It is generally right-wing rhetoric that social democrats always make it difficult and difficult. In fact, we want to achieve fair conditions and a society without cheating and falsification. That's what it's all about.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-438	Mr President, I would like to During this term of office, strong policies have been put in place in several areas to tackle financial crime and fraud. It has been a priority for the Red Green Government, and there are many reasons for that. When it is possible to operate a business in whole or in part illegally with little risk of getting caught, an unfair situation of unfair competition arises. Those who behave according to laws and regulations find it harder to compete than those who do not. It can apply to tax payments but also to other things – work environment rules, permit to issue or environmental regulations – depending on the industry and the like. Sometimes it is argued that regulations unilaterally disadvantage companies, as they may lead to increased administration, but it is important to emphasise that regulations that eliminate fraud and crime benefit serious operators. Although there may be more jobs sometimes, a level playing field is extremely important. Of course, it is also important that the administration is as efficient and simple as possible for the individual and for the entrepreneur. In measurements, the Swedish Tax Agency has proven to have very high confidence in the population, and this is a sign that they are doing well with their mission, not least when it comes to managing regulations that are complicated and being able to provide services and tell us what applies. It is a little fascinating that the authority that is set to collect taxes from the population is so high in confidence. The proposal that we are now debating, on extending the human rights system to include vehicle services, food and tobacco wholesalers, body and beauty services, is a continuation of what has been in force in the past. It started first in the hairdressing and construction industry and has since expanded, which is good. Other things are also being done in this area to prevent crime. Monthly reporting of employers' contributions is one example. With this, Mr President, I support the committee's proposal.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-445	Mr President, I would like to Technical evidence is becoming increasingly important in trials and investigations. A functioning Forensic organisation is therefore essential for effective and legally secure law enforcement. Today's report and today's debate refer to the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the police's forensic organisation. The report gives both rice and rose. Happily, the laboratory activities at NFC, the National Forensic Centre, as well as the work of forensic technicians and local crime scene investigators around the country are assessed to be of high quality. However, the problem is that the duration of proceedings is far too long on the NFC. This causes delayed pre-investigations and inefficient use of resources in the justice chain as a whole. Suspicions against perpetrators can neither be substantiated nor dismissed, persons detained pending a response from the NFC will be released when the evidence is delayed, the time period between arrest and conviction will be unnecessarily prolonged, etc. The Swedish National Audit Office points to three reasons for the long processing times at NFC: Mr President, I would like to These shortcomings need to be addressed urgently with a view to achieving a functioning legal chain and a functioning NFC. Coordination must take place between the Police Authority, the Prosecutor's Office and the NFC in order for all authorities to speak the same language and make their orders right. Forensics at NFCs must be given scope to work on the tasks they specialise in, not on administrative tasks that could easily be handled by other staff. That scheme would very likely also have a direct effect on the staff turnover of the NFC. More people would have a more decent working situation by focusing on the right tasks. In view of these shortcomings, the Alliance has presented a follow-up motion calling on the Government to take immediate concrete measures to address the problems highlighted by the Swedish National Audit Office, as I have previously indicated. The government parties reject our follow-up motion, which has led us to have four joint reservations from the Alliance. Of course, the Moderates supported all the alliance reservations, but for time winning, I only ask for reservation number 2. That reservation, Mr President, concerns an important aspect which the National Audit Office also highlights in its report, namely that crime scene investigations are carried out too often by intervention personnel rather than specially trained criminal technicians. Due to the police crisis that Swedish police are in, where the number of police are now under 20 000, places are empty in the police colleges, the drop-out from the same education is up to almost 500 people and both experienced and new police are resigning, there are simply no criminal technicians available. In this way, intervention police officers are required to conduct crime scene investigations without the necessary training, time and equipment. In this context, immediate action must be taken either to hire more new police officers or to provide existing police officers with training and the right equipment to cope with tracking at a crime scene. Perhaps the best is both, but the point is that something has to be done and that it has to be done now. Mr President, I would like to The Government has announced that it has previously commissioned the Police Authority and the Prosecutor's Office to report on the measures taken to speed up the forensic process. That's it! However, I note that the objective of a faster process has not yet been achieved, and in accordance with the Swedish National Audit Office's report, the NFC also has some work to do within the agency. We need urgent action, otherwise our fight against crime risks becoming ineffective and too time-consuming, with negative consequences. It is a development that we do not want and that we must work hard together to avoid. Mr President, I would like to As has already been said, the Moderates are behind all the alliance reservations, but I call for the winning approval of time only for reservation no. 2.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-457	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes it happens when you have to debate that you prepare carefully. In my case, I had thought that I would be the last in a debate after the alliance parties, and I had therefore prepared myself by talking about all the Members of this debate. Now it turns out that it only became Anders Hansson and I, although I see that Patrick Reslow has been added afterwards. In other words, all Members – this is still true even though it is only for me and Hansson so far – in this debate on the report From track to evidence regarding the police's forensic organisation, there are a few crucial points that are important: we think it is important to have a well-functioning forensic activity, long processing times are a major problem and the efficiency of the processes needs to be increased. That is why the report from the Swedish National Audit Office is so good and important, because it clearly points to a number of possibilities for improvement in different parts of the forensic process. These processes are already under way, as we can see in the answers from the Police and the Prosecutor's Office. The report's not quite fresh. It was left to Parliament in June last year, so it has passed quite a few months. As a result, there have already been opportunities to take action. For example, the police are working on what Anders Hansson talked about, namely to develop the personnel who are first at the crime scene and provide them with the equipment they need to do their job well. The ordering service for these tasks by the police is improving, and there are also various collaborative projects going on, as the report shows. The government has given an opinion and points out that measures have been taken to make these improvements. And in the regulation letter for 2017, i.e. before this report came, the police had been commissioned to simply improve this activity. You can see what has been done in the police report for 2017. In the run-up to this debate, I looked a little bit into it. It shows that the increase in incoming cases continued during the year and that the cases also became more complex than they have been in the past. Then you understand that it takes a little longer than before. However, the production rate increased in the autumn, and in December 522 cases per day were closed at NFC compared to 444 cases on average per day throughout the year. Nevertheless, it is a measure that something has happened. When it comes to investigating weapons, the processing time has decreased from 147 days on average in 2015 to 52 days in 2017 thanks to new working methods. I also think that it is a good measure that when you work with improvements you can do that. Nevertheless, there are still some imbalances. What is important is that last year the NFC was able to employ another 30 people. These people cannot go into a sharp position right away, as they need to be trained internally for some time just as they do in many other professions. But the staffing of the NFC has been strengthened, which is very good. The report did not contain any direct recommendations to the Government, but the Government considers the review to be an important contribution to the development of these activities. As we see that action has been taken in the spirit of the report, we do not see any reason to support the motion requests that exist. I looked at the most recent figures about NFCs that I could get out. Then I read what the police wrote in a newsletter referring to this year's first two months. In these two months, compared with last year's first two months, the number of cases received has increased by 1 000. It shows that there are increasing numbers all the time. However, the number of cases closed in the first two months is 3 000 more than last year. Why is that? Because the imbalances that exist have been addressed, and a variety of dossiers have been closed for a very long time, as the police themselves write. I think it is good that we have now come somewhere in this work that we are debating today. Of course, it is important that we continue to follow this important activity and ensure that this positive trend persists and that the business becomes just as good as we want it to be so that crime can ultimately be resolved more quickly, which of course is the goal. In view of this, I support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-468	Mr President, I would like to There were drastic changes on the list of speakers, and it is only a coincidence that this coincides with Malmö Redhawks playing at the moment. I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 5. As we have heard, the Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the Swedish Police Authority's forensic activities. The aim has been to see if it is effective enough for crimes to be cleared up. The result of that review is rather disappointing. It is long processing times that characterise the business, and this affects the entire legal chain. A number of reasons have been highlighted for this. There are, among other things, deficiencies in orders, there is too little administrative staff and there is a high turnover of staff. The fact that there is too little administrative staff is perhaps what is most worrying. The Swedish Democrats believe that a review of the budget of the National Forensic Centre is needed. The aim is to increase the workforce, but also to streamline the tasks, so that the personnel are not used for tasks that they are not supposed to occupy themselves with. We are therefore in favour of the recommendations made by the Swedish National Audit Office in the review. But we also want them to have a real impact. That is why we are calling for an evaluation after a year, in order to see that the recommendations really have an effect.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-474	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to discuss insolvency and compensation law issues. The issue that perhaps captures my interest most here is that of vehicle keepers and debt linked to vehicle owners. We note that a full term of office has elapsed without any improvement in the situation in this area. Rather, we have seen an opposite trend in which the number of vehicles written on vehicle goaltenders is increasing. This, of course, creates opportunities to go beyond the law, whether it is organised crime or, for example, improperly receiving support, although in practice it actually uses a car as if it were one's own. This is, of course, a major social problem, and I can see that the government is, in any case, talking about it as if it were a social problem. But there has been a mandate to do something about it, and little has happened. We had a debate on this in this House about a year ago, when the issue of vehicle goaltenders was on the agenda. There was a large battery of concrete proposals for measures that were announced to the government and that the government could have put into effect in principle immediately. These were simple changes to regulations and simple changes to administrative instructions that could have made a great practical difference. Instead, the government chooses to set up a general investigation at the end of a term of office, which should appropriately be reported approximately in time for the election movement to begin. So there is no way for this government to address this issue in a practical way, given the way in which it is now dealt with, i.e. not at all. I find that unfortunate. In order to give the government additional tools and further examples of what would actually be effective in addressing this problem, I can mention three of the reservations of Liberals and Moderates. Among other things, it is about giving municipalities the opportunity to move even on legally parked vehicles. It is a question of giving the police the opportunity to stop a vehicle while travelling if there is a suspicion that the vehicle is being driven by a car target officer. And it is a question of shortening the time that the authorities today have to store seized vehicles before the owner loses the right to claim the vehicle. These are three concrete examples that the government could already have worked on if it had not been so slow and had not apparently had the greatest need to pose and mark a position before the forthcoming election movement, rather than acting in practice and in good faith. It is my hope that this issue will be resolved very soon, because, as things stand today, we have left an open playing field for the criminality that follows in the wake of the problem of vehicle bullies. I would therefore like to endorse the Moderates' and Liberals' reservation No 1.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-481	Mr President, I would like to I am going to talk about an exception to the legislation that needs to be changed. It is a matter of the fact that the compensation resulting from deprivation of liberty is the exception of foreclosure, which means that the Enforcement Authority is not allowed to seize this money. This sometimes has completely unreasonable consequences. What do I mean by unreasonable consequences? Let me take an example. If a man rapes a woman and is then convicted of it, the woman with today's system should collect her compensation through the Swedish Enforcement Authority. That in itself is strange, and I would rather see another system. This is true today, however. If the man doesn't have any resources, it'll be a debt that's left on the man. If we then consider that the man is later released, which in this case should be after two thirds of the two years of imprisonment that have become the standard punishment for rape, the same man 16 months later may commit a new rape. Now let's imagine he's doing it-- he's committing another rape, and he's being arrested for this. He's in custody again, and months later, it's a trial. However, it turns out that the evidence this time does not hold for conviction. All too often in my previous role as a judge in the Court of Appeal, I have seen examples of people being acquitted, not because it is clear that they are innocent, but because the evidence is not enough for a conviction. There are simply doubts as to how this has actually been done. When the man in my example is released, he will be reimbursed for his time in custody. Here is something strange: Suddenly, the man's compensation is protected from foreclosure. He receives his compensation, which, moreover, he does not have to go to the bailiff to demand, and also the opportunity to hide it so that the woman he has raped before does not receive her compensation. This can't be right. In my community, the first victim should first receive his compensation. The counter argument is that this type of compensation should be paid to the person who has received the compensation and not to pay previous debts. Suddenly, the compensation of the former offender is more important to protect than that of the previous victim. Is that really a sensible priority? For me, it is self-evident that the victim will have his or her rights satisfied before the offender. We must stand up for those who have been victims of crime, and their right to compensation must take precedence over the ability of the perpetrators to hide their compensation. A former victim must, of course, be entitled to compensation before any other, new compensation is paid. There is no need for major changes in order to give victims priority to the compensation they should be entitled to; it is simply a matter of daring to stand on the side of the victims rather than on the side of the criminals. Often it is also a question of taking sides with the woman and not with the man, which is something that a feminist government should consider a little. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to support our Amendment No 4 in paragraph 8.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-488	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation No 1. For time winning, the Liberals are not in favour of our other reservations, but we are also in favour of them. I would like to mention two areas of remuneration and insolvency law where we need to do more in Sweden. Firstly, we need to tighten up the legislation on vehicle goalkeepers and vehicle-related debts. A car goaltender, or vehicle goaltender, is a person who is registered as the owner of a motor vehicle even though the person is not the actual owner of the vehicle. There are about 150 natural, real people in Sweden who each own over 100 motor vehicles. Often these people are socially vulnerable, in debt and exploited by professional criteria. We can't have that. These car keepers usually pay neither taxes nor fees for these vehicles, and KFM states that there are vehicle-related debts of more than SEK 2 billion. Swedish authorities and the police can devote themselves to better things than chasing these car goalkeepers and others. You can strengthen welfare, increase police salaries and teacher salaries and invest in our vulnerable areas of exclusion. The fact that individuals can write any number of cars on their name and at the same time have large debts is a problem that needs to be solved. The legislation needs to be tightened further, in addition to the tightening-up the Alliance carried out in 2014. According to the Liberals, we should introduce a restriction on the possibility for already indebted people to register additional vehicles and demand a special permit from the Swedish Transport Agency for the ownership of more than ten motor vehicles. This, if anything, would reduce the activities of professionals, and it would also give the police something other than car goalkeepers. It is good that, following the announcement of a liberal motion, the government has set up an investigation to evaluate the legislation in this area, but I and the Liberals also believe that the preparation's results should be prioritised and that the government should urgently return with proposals that will tighten the legislation against car targets. Secondly, I would like to say why Sweden needs better protection against false bankruptcy claims. Today, there is no effective protection for the person who is the victim of a false application for bankruptcy. This is done by someone else claiming to be the responsible person against the authorities, and it can happen today because the requirements are so low that in practice anyone can apply for bankruptcy for someone else. For example, the bankruptcy of a public limited liability company does not require even documentation in the form of a board of directors' report or a resolution of the shareholders. It is also not necessary for the individual seeking a licence, and only if there are specific reasons, a detailed examination of the application is carried out. The situation is as bad for natural persons as for right-of-occupancy associations. It is important that the liquidation of a bankruptcy estate takes place quickly – we understand that – but the requirements of the bankruptcy law must never cause the responsible authorities to neglect identity checks or treat bankruptcy procedures as mere form cases. Mr President, I would like to Our courts are now in danger of becoming useful idiots who are used as a kind of crime tool for fraudsters. I would like to give an example of this from March 2017, when Securitas President and CEO Alf Göransson was robbed of his personal identity. One person applied for a loan in his name. More than three months later, Göransson was declared bankrupt by the Stockholm District Court – without having been contacted before the decision. The district court's decision was based on a false application where Alf Göransson so requested himself in bankruptcy, but it was not Alf Göransson who did so. This meant that Göransson could not make decisions in his capacity as Chief Executive of Securitas, and so we cannot have it. A false application for bankruptcy has far-reaching and devastating consequences for individuals, companies and right-of-occupancy associations. This can result in trust damage and that well-functioning companies, such as Securitas, risk being placed under bankruptcy management. For a right-of-occupancy holder, bankruptcy of the association can cause major problems of a financial nature as the shares in the association become worthless and the apartments will be regarded as tenancy rights in the bankruptcy estate. Legislation urgently needs to be reviewed in order to counteract and, if possible, eliminate the risk of natural or legal persons going bankrupt through false applications. The investigation set up by the Government is primarily aimed at reducing fraud offences through the use of false identity documents. That is not enough, Mr President. We Liberals demand that the applicant's identity, competence and authority be ensured before an application for bankruptcy is approved. For example, it is reasonable that a decision of the Board of Directors or of the shareholders can be presented if a legal entity applies for its own bankruptcy.
i-f0e1ce5f3a4bfe86-500	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the motion to be rejected and for the proposal contained in the report to be approved. I wanted to talk a little about over-indebtedness, which is something the report deals with. Everyone could end up in debt. It is not, as many may think, merely bad private economic decisions that cause people to become indebted. Many times it is when life changes – when you become unemployed, sick or divorced – that not only you but also your economy is at risk of a crisis. Therefore, measures such as higher ceilings in health insurance and unemployment insurance, better maintenance support and increased child benefit are good measures, not only to provide financial security for citizens when they are in a vulnerable situation but also to counter debt. Here, during the term of office, the Social Democratic-led government has taken decisive steps towards greater security in the event of illness and unemployment for families with children and especially for single parents. The tax cuts that we have implemented so that pensioners do not have to pay higher taxes than those who work are also worth highlighting in this context. However, for those who are still in debt, we have improved the way out of that situation. As of 1 November 2016, new debt restructuring rules have made it easier for people to apply for and undergo debt restructuring. According to Kronofogden's statistics, the number of debt restructuring applications increased significantly after the introduction of the new debt restructuring act. The number of applications has increased from 11,000 – 12 000 annually in 2015 – 16 to over 19,000 applications in 2017. I visited the budget and debt counselling in Jönköping in January. There are great improvements since the new law came into force. It is easier for citizens to apply, and it is quicker to get started with debt restructuring. More people than in the past are able to handle the application, which means that budget and debt counselling can engage more in preventive activities. Free months are perceived as a great advantage, and families with children have a great opportunity to get a shorter payment plan. Better debt restructuring and effective support for debtors are part of the government's strategy against over-indebtedness. It also includes measures to achieve more responsible lending. Therefore, on 23 January, the Government submitted a proposal to the Riksdag on interest rates ceilings and other measures on the market for short-term loans and other high-cost credits. This is a bill in which the government proposes several amendments to the Consumer Credit Act that will lead to more reasonable conditions for quick loans. For years, quick loans have been something that has led people to fall into the debt trap and deepen their indebtedness. Therefore, it is gratifying that there is such broad support in the Riksdag for the proposals in the bill, which the Riksdag will decide on in May this year. Mr President, I would like to I've talked about debt restructuring as a way out of over-indebtedness. However, many indebted people are not involved in debt restructuring but go for several years under wage foreclosure and live on the minimum of existence, or reserve amount as it is also called, to get rid of their debts. It is therefore important that we have also looked at how we can make their and their families' everyday lives a little more tolerable. The enforcement investigation has submitted its report. It proposes some changes that are positive for those under wage foreclosure. Among other things, it is proposed to increase the normal and reserve amounts for families with children. It is also proposed to allow for more deferral of the wage foreclosure to be granted for the payment of unforeseen expenses. As Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin mentioned, last March the Riksdag issued an announcement to the government to review the possibility of tightening up legislation against so-called vehicle goaltenders. On February 1, this year, an investigation started to review the law and see how it can be changed to tackle the problem. As the exercisers in the matter state, this is a serious problem that previous legislative changes have not succeeded in curbing. The statistics of the Swedish Enforcement Authority show that approximately 100 vehicle goaltenders, registered between 20,000 and 30,000 cars, account for SEK 400 million in vehicle debts. As mentioned earlier, the results of the investigation will be reported by 30 June of this year. In the 2018 budget, the Government has also introduced targeted support to municipalities to cover the costs incurred in connection with their work on seized vehicles. There are motions and a reservation in the report which touch on something which may not be a very widespread problem but which has a major impact on the sufferer, namely the issue of false bankruptcy claims. The minister responsible has answered questions about this in the past and highlighted the investigation that Robert Hannah also spoke about, which will propose measures to prevent the use of false identity documents. The Government's ambition is to combat the misuse of identity data. I think, like the exercisers, that other measures may be needed. It is serious that there are false claims for bankruptcy. Should it prove necessary, the government is prepared to take action. I trust that the government will take the necessary initiatives to counter false bankruptcy claims. I would also like to point out that it is good and important that the exercisers have raised this problem and made us all more aware of the fact that this is a problem that exists. I would also like to mention, Mr President, that this summer a new form of special handrail, called removal, was introduced, which will make it easier and less costly for property owners to get help with the relocation of illegal settlements. The Socialist-led government has taken a number of initiatives in the area covered by the report in recent years. The most important issues, in my view, are that we have taken a holistic approach to over-indebtedness and that we are now moving forward with sharp measures against short-term loans.
