i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-1	Mr President, I would like to Lars Beckman has asked me whether I intend to evaluate the impact of the regional safety ombudsmen's activities before the government puts forward new proposals regarding the change of activities, how I view the fact that access rights are planned to be given to trade union representatives even in workplaces where members are missing, and whether I would rather that trade unions receive millions in support of government-like tasks than strengthening government agencies if there are irregularities in workplaces to be prevented. Each year, the State makes a contribution to the regional safety ombudsman activities. The task of the Regional Safety Officers is to activate and support the workers' side in the local work environment, mainly in smaller workplaces where there are no safety committees. Since 2014, the beneficiaries of the grant have to account for how the funds have been used, such as the number of regional safety representatives and the number of workplaces visited. In March 2017, the study on health and safety rules for a modern working life submitted its report, which contains proposals for increased access rights for regional safety representatives. The report has been referred and the matter is currently being prepared in the Government Office. The Government has strongly strengthened the Swedish Work Environment Authority during its term of office, with a permanent increase in the agency's administrative grant of SEK 85 million per year. In addition to this, the Government invests SEK 18 million per year for three years to develop methods of joint control to combat cheating, violations of rules and crime at work.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-4	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I assume that, in its next speech, the Government will answer the questions I have asked. Mr President, I would like to It is not every day that I moderated in the conclusion that private activities should be nationalised. However, as far as the issue of regional safety representatives is concerned, it could actually be reasonable. Let me start by telling you about my view of entrepreneurship and job creators. My view is that companies take the working environment very seriously. During my ten years in a business organisation, I have never met the evil companies that the Left Party, the Social Democrats and LO usually go and demonstrate against on May 1st. On the contrary – the entrepreneurs I have met, and meet, take the work environment very seriously. They know that employees are extremely valuable in creating good competitiveness, if nothing else. They create good comfort and invest a lot in education. But are there bad employers? Are there employers in Sweden who cause ill health? Yes, of course. These exist both in the private sector and – above all – in municipalities, county councils and states. In the case of sick leave statistics, the government has set a target of having fewer than nine sick days per year and employee. If we look at which employers cause ill health, we see that municipal employers have 14.3 days per year, county councils 12.7 days per year and state employers, who are best in the class of public employers, 10 days per year. Instead, private companies in Sweden have fewer than nine sick days per year and employees. If we break down private employers one more time and look at micro-enterprises, or the smallest companies, we see that they have a very low level of sick leave. In those sectors where, not least, there are a great many women working, such as elderly care, disability care and health care, the rates of sick leave in private companies are much lower than in the public sector. Then one might think that the government would think like this: We look at those who are best in the class – at those employers who cause the least sick leave. We support them and take good examples. We may even privatise more, because sick leave is low, if it is a good working environment we want. But this government has done exactly the opposite. It has waged a crusade against private companies in these sectors. It is against this background that I have put this interpellation on regional safety ombudsmen. It is a business that costs a lot of money – about 110 million a year. It is an activity that has not been evaluated at all. Both the Swedish Financial Control Agency and the Swedish National Audit Office have said that the state spends a great deal of money here but that it is unclear what outcome and what result this operation gives. In my next post, I would like to come back to that very point.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-15	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. In this case, however, I may first and foremost thank Lars Beckman, the Moderates, for the question. It is good that differences in policy are made clear. Lars Beckman demonstrates here in a very clear way a monumental lack of interest, bordering on contempt, for working people's working conditions. He does this by suspecting and, in principle, wanting to eliminate an important and well-functioning part of the protection of the working environment and working conditions. At the same time, what is a bit sad is that we also see an example of the path that the Moderates in particular have taken in recent times, which involves introducing a rather significant measure of ignorance and contempt for facts when designing their political moves. Lars Beckman suggested that you don't know anything about how work environment work works. In fact, we know a lot, and perhaps we could have had even more knowledge of this if the former Reinfeldt government had not shut down the Work Life Institute. However, a lot of research is being done, and you know quite a lot about the work there. Beckman also indicated that this is about a lot of money going out of the state to do an unclear job. In fact, however, the trade unions are adding a lot of money to do this important work. It is the LO compartments that are firing the largest proportion, about half. TCO accounts for about the same amount – a few percentage points less – while it is a little different with Saco, who accounts for about 10 per cent themselves. However, it is a contribution from the trade unions to this very important work for society. One should be able to discuss whether the state should give additional money so that this is not such an economic burden on trade unions. To say, moreover, that this would be part of a social democratic electoral apparatus is, of course, an insult to the people who are working on it, and also misleading when it comes to what the regional safety ombudsmen are doing, as the Minister mentioned a little bit. It is a question of helping when the local safety representatives need help and are not enough and, perhaps, above all, of helping to set up local safety committees. It is not part of a Social Democratic party machine or a whale machine. Let us ignore for a moment the enormous hypocrisy that Lars Beckman wants to give inspectors more of that job, while the previous government halved the Agency's appropriations, for example. However, even if we ignore this, we can see that there is something quite different and complementary that the safety representatives in our workplaces do. It is not just about stopping things when they are at their most dangerous, but about working constructively to improve systematic work environment management. And it is quite interesting and enlightening that the Moderates and Lars Beckman have problems with this very thing.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-22	Mr President, I would like to Let me first say in general terms about work environment work that we have very big challenges when it comes to the Swedish working environment. We have serious sick leave, the most in school, health care and long-term care. We have people who die in their workplaces, who go to work and never come home again. That is totally unacceptable. This government will step by step continue to strengthen the work environment until we can reach a safe workplace for everyone. The work is taking place in very close dialogue with both employers' and workers' organisations, and I believe that there is very good cooperation between them. I share Lars Beckman's view that employers generally take work environment work very seriously and want to be better and better at working environment work. On the other hand, not everyone always has sufficient knowledge of this. The systematic work environment management is lacking. It works best when you get a systematic work environment work at the workplace. Then there is often good cooperation between the parties, and that is what needs to be strengthened. The regional safety ombudsmen receive a subsidy from the state, but the unions also pay themselves. Their task is to be an ambulant safety representative who reviews the work environment and proposes improvements, to promote employee participation in the work environment, to get local representatives elected and continue to support them and to promote local work environment work, not least to improve managers' systematic work environment management. They account for how they spend their money according to nine measurable achievements. In the last survey it was seen that they had visited 50,000 establishments in 2016, which is far more than the Swedish Work Environment Authority can do. There are 1 700 regional safety representatives, equivalent to 300 annual workers. If you would like to have a different order from that of the regional safety ombudsmen and instead, as Lars Beckman says, the state would take over it, I can only say that when the Moderates were responsible for the work environment, they made substantial cuts to the state inspections from the Swedish Work Environment Agency. In fact, that is what you did and the policy that you stand for. As far as the proposal presented by Lars Beckman is concerned, an investigation has been carried out. It is justified by the increasing number of posted workers in Sweden. I welcome posted workers in Sweden. I think cross-border mobility is a good thing. That is why I am working to ensure that we have good conditions and order for posted workers in Sweden. One should have the right to Swedish collective agreements – that is why we have torn up lex Laval – and one should have the right to a good working environment. If you are posted for a short time in Sweden, it is quite natural that you do not join a Swedish trade union. I can understand that. They work for a short time in Sweden and may be in a trade union in their home country. This means that we have a new situation with workplaces that will increasingly have Swedish collective agreements. Since we have changed the legislation, this can now be demanded. But also in those workplaces where for quite natural reasons there will not be members of a Swedish trade union, we need to get a good work environment work done, not least in view of the fact that there are indications that there would be problems and difficulties as there are many workers from different countries and with different languages working in the same workplace. This is the background to the investigation I set up. It is subject to consultation and, as I said, is prepared in the Government Office.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-31	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to order and order in workplaces and a good working environment, I and the Government, the Moderates and the Social Democrats, are in complete agreement. As I said in my previous post, there are bad employers in Sweden. There are employers who cause great ill health, and these are municipal employers, county councils employers and state employers. Private employers have already reached the targets set by the government by 2020. Mr President, I would like to It is a little slow for the government to improve the working environment. It has put its energy on the wrong thing, and it is a huge problem. Measures should probably have been taken and efforts should have been made where ill health is greatest. A crusade has been waged against the employers with the lowest sick leave, and that is a problem. Mr President, I would like to As far as regional safety representatives are concerned, I am concerned about the confusion that is taking place between trade union roles and authority-like tasks. And I will readily admit that it is not every day that I, as a moderate, have come to the conclusion that it might be better to have a full state operation than to have a privatised one. Otherwise, it is usually the case that I and the Communists have opposing views here in the pulpit. But when it comes to exercising authority, it is reasonable to have clear roles in society, to know who is doing what. Mr President, I would like to It is not the taxpayer's association that reviews declarations, but the Tax Agency – just to give an example. I had intended to take the Swedish Work Environment Authority as the good example in this interpellation debate and say that the Swedish Work Environment Authority is impartial and unpolitical and that they conduct serious campaigns. Unfortunately, however, they came with a game, The Boss, on which I have put a written question to the Minister and which was directly inappropriately insulting to Sweden's entrepreneurs. The game was then withdrawn after an extensive criticism from all the entrepreneurs who did not recognize themselves in what the Swedish Work Environment Authority tried to suggest. But if LO had had this campaign, is there anyone who thinks that LO had withdrawn it? No, of course not. LO receives 82 million a year from the government. It is a confusion, and we do not really know who is a trade union representative or regional safety representative. LO has given back 30 million. I read an article that said: we in LO will campaign for the Social Democrats and will donate 30 million to the Social Democrats. It is not known whether the 30 million comes from the 82 million given by the government with another hand. I think it is an unfortunate mix of opinion-forming and authority-like work. I think it would be better to look at a model with health and safety consultants, or if you call it something else, and give the 110 million to the Swedish Work Environment Agency and say that this is an authority-like exercise that should be carried out precisely by authorities and not by private interest organisations. That would be a pure role. In my last post, I will give some personal examples of how LO has acted when I have wanted to talk about the working environment, for example with Transport about what a kilometre tax means for the working environment for an already severely exposed haulage industry. But Transport was very clear that they do not want to meet a moderate and talk about work environment with a moderate, and that is for those you give 82 million SEK.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-39	Mr President, I would like to It's not like LO gets 82 million to do what you want with. On the contrary, LO spends 78 million in order to carry out the important work with regional safety representatives. That's a lot of money. Perhaps it should be much smaller and the state should have a greater responsibility for this important work. It is difficult to keep an intellectually reasonable level when Lars Beckman starts his questions, but I will still try. What the investigation points to – apart from what the Minister was thinking of as a reason, i.e. that we have posted workers in Sweden – is that there is a change in the labour market in Sweden. In the past, many more people worked in the industry, and in time they had a well-organised work with the working environment – largely because they had strong trade unions who have been able to take a great responsibility for this. Lars Beckman points out that not all employers are bad. No, of course not. But the point of this work is that you not only come in when something terrible happens or when someone has done something bad, but that you systematically together, sometimes in conflict but often in collaboration, make sure to strengthen the work environment. It has produced results. Accidents in Swedish industry have been greatly reduced. What the investigation points to is that today we have more people working in small workplaces and more people who have atypical, precarious forms of employment. Then it is important to ensure that the work environment can also reach them. Part of this would be to give more access rights to regional safety representatives.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-44	Mr President, I would like to It's tempting to fold at the same level as Lars Beckman. Let me note, however, that the Moderates criticise existing work environment management, both from the Agency and from the Safety Officers, and do not have their own proposals for what they want to do instead. When they were in charge, they made substantial cuts in all resources to work environment management, both to inspections and to research to gain more knowledge. Lars Beckman highlights the public sector, especially the welfare sector, where we have major problems with sick leave. In this sector, regional safety representatives are rare, because here we have a high level of organisation and, in general, protection committees. Regional safety representatives almost don't work in that sector at all. Here there are other things that need to be done and that we also do. The Moderates' proposals are reduced taxes, fewer resources and fewer employees in the common sector. It is clear that if we have larger classes, larger groups of children, lower staffing at retirement homes and fewer employees in health care, it is possible to have a good working environment – but it does not get easier. In the case of regional safety representatives, trade unions report how they use resources. This report was last submitted for 2016. They report according to nine different criteria. Let me ask a question to Lars Beckman, who here a little sweepingly suspect the work of the safety ombudsmen. What is Lars Beckman's proposal on how to get a good work environment work at the new types of workplaces that arise, with posted workers? It is not reasonable to demand that they be organised in a Swedish trade union. It is perhaps not the main task of the Swedish unions to organise seconded workers who on average work for two months in Sweden. However, we must ensure that we also have good work environment work in these workplaces. What is Lars Beckman's suggestion on how to solve this?
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-51	Mr President, I would like to Let me be clear again. I started by saying that it is not every day that I, as a moderate, come to the conclusion that private activities should be nationalised. I have said in every speech that the views that exist are to be taken into account and that there may be a confusion between the trade union role and the authority-like task. Perhaps we should have independent health and safety advisors who are tasked with supporting the work environment of small businesses. These advisors should of course be linked to the Swedish Work Environment Authority. In 2014, I wanted to meet Transport and talk about work environment work. I wanted to know how a kilometre tax would affect their members' work environment. They were already working in a stressful situation with short deadlines, and the government had an election promise to introduce a kilometre tax. I contacted Transport and said that this was an important issue and that I was very involved in health and safety at work, and Transport replied: You are moderate, so we do not want to see you. That, of course, is not reasonable. It is about state funds, SEK 110 million per year, and both the Swedish Financial Control Agency and the Swedish National Audit Office have pointed out that there are unclear effects, unclear follow-up and a confusion of roles. Then it would be logical to make this a state operation under the flag of the Swedish Work Environment Authority. Then it becomes orderly, and it becomes clear to the entrepreneur that when Lars Beckman comes to the company, he is there as a representative of the Swedish Work Environment Authority and not as a trade union elected representative – just to take an example. We agree that we want order in the labour market and a good working environment, but the current order is not reasonable.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-55	Mr President, I would like to When the Moderates were responsible for the work environment, they made substantial cuts in resources to inspections. Then the minister at the time argued that it was possible to have good inspections with less resources. At the same time, ill-health increased in working life, and there was a serious development in accidents at work. The Moderates have never prioritised work environment management and have never dedicated the necessary resources. That's the truth. Nor have you given priority to resources for welfare or to having enough employees in welfare so that it is possible to have a reasonable working situation. Safety representatives and inspectors can give advice and do so. They act as advisors. But it's not their only role. They are also strong practitioners of power, and this is needed to ensure that we get to grips with the major problems of people actually being seriously injured and dying in our workplaces. This will not be facilitated by engaging in the important work of the Regional Safety Officers. I and the government I represent will continue to make proposals to strengthen the work environment and the activities of safety representatives.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-59	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl has asked me how I view the development and what measures I plan to take to complete the police training in Umeå. I can begin by saying that uncertainty in Sweden is unevenly distributed. People living in vulnerable areas are more insecure than others, and women are generally more insecure than men. The government has presented a long-term reform programme to strengthen vulnerable areas and reduce segregation in the country. The programme includes actions in a wide range of areas, including law enforcement. The Government has also presented a national crime prevention programme, Together against crime, which emphasises the importance of more actors than the judiciary engaging in crime prevention to make it effective. In order to increase security, the government believes that more police are also needed. I would like to emphasise in particular that the government has doubled the number of admitted to police training in relation to the previous government. In 2014, 689 students were admitted to police training, and in 2017 1 398 were adopted. The previous government had too few police officers trained, which is now causing problems. Therefore, in order to increase the number of police officers in line with the ambition of the current government, we will remain in higher education numbers for a long time to come. According to the Swedish Police Authority, it has been difficult to get students to apply for police training in Umeå. Those admitted to police training may submit requests for studies at which higher education institution they wish to study. In order to get as many people as possible to start the education, the Swedish Police Authority meets the applicants to the extent possible, but more people therefore go to Linnaeus University and Södertörn University than to Umeå University. The Police Authority is actively working to broaden recruitment and attract the right applicants to police training. However, work needs to be intensified. Therefore, on 20 July, the Government decided to commission the Police Authority to strengthen the supply of skills, including the admission process. The assignment also includes examining the conditions for establishing two new police training courses, one in the south and one in the west of Sweden. The population density of these regions suggests that it will be easier to fill the training places. In addition, according to the assignment, the authority will carry out a recruitment campaign with the aim of increasing interest in the police profession and thus increasing the number of students filling the places in the training. The assignment shall be presented on 23 May 2018. The government has therefore already taken several measures both to reduce the vulnerability to crime and to ensure the authority's competence. The government's starting point is, of course, that no places should be empty in police training, and I will follow developments closely, including in Umeå.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-69	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the answer to my interpellation! Like the Minister, I note that insecurity is spreading in our country. I am not going to blame this development solely on the current government, but, of course, there are many factors on which to base what we see happening. On the other hand, it is the responsibility of the current government to deal with the problems that exist today. We need more police officers; I believe that all parties in the Swedish Parliament are in full agreement on this. The question is more like how to get more cops. In fact, I see two parts of this. One part is to get police officers who are trained and who today work as police officers to remain in the profession. The second part is to ensure that the training places we have in the three places of study are filled with qualified students. These two parts together will give us more police over time. Mr President, I would like to My criticism of the government is that we have fewer police officers today than we had in 2014, when the government took over. We had over 20,000 police officers in 2014, when the figures were summarized, but by 2017, we had just under 20,000 police officers. It may seem that this is not so dangerous, but the problem is that the challenges today are much greater than three and a half years ago. The police have a completely different situation to deal with, and there are fewer of them. If you add that the population has increased and look at how many inhabitants there are on each police officer you can see that the development is even more dramatic and going in the wrong direction. In 2014, they had 486 citizens per police officer. In 2017 – after three and a half years of social democratic and environmental party government – you can sum up 512 inhabitants per police officer. It's going the wrong way. It is remarkable that the government has not succeeded better. It has the ambition, and it has been said that it is prepared to provide money to meet the challenges. Yet the development is going the wrong way. Mr President, I would like to I asked the Minister a question about police training in Umeå and what the Minister intends to do to fill the seats there. I understand the answer now, and the Minister will be happy to let me know if I interpret him incorrectly. I am being somewhat provoked, because I interpret the Minister's answer in the sense that there are too few people living in Norrland and therefore there are not enough applicants. It would therefore be that you do not want to train in Umeå that is behind it. Rather, I believe that low wages and a great dissatisfaction with the current police leadership are the explanations that can be found both that we have historically large drop-outs from the police force and that we have a situation where we do not fill the training places. I think this is the problem, not that one of the three places of education is in Norrland. I take the minister as meaning that it is better to train police officers in southern Sweden than in Norrland. I find this unfortunate, not least because Södertörn and Växjö, where the other two police training courses are, have had a full number of applicants at two of the last eight courses. So there are problems in filling police training elsewhere too, and that is the responsibility of the Minister. The solution is not to move training places from Norrland to other parts of the country, but to tackle the basic problem.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-77	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl is unhappy with the fact that few police students are available in Umeå. I can agree with that; I would like to see even more police students in Umeå and also in Växjö and Stockholm. But the truth, Edward Riedl, as far as the numbers are concerned, is that more police students are currently attending Umeå than it has in ten years. You will have to search back until 2008 to find as many police students in Umeå as we have right now. In 2008, 285 police students went to Umeå, and it is now 231. You had the absolute bottom level for police training in Umeå. It was achieved during Beatrice Ask's time as Minister of Justice. There were only 59 police students in Umeå at the time. I do not know whether Edward Riedl brought this up with the government at the time or whether he was even in Parliament at that time. If we look at this then we have a desert in Umeå from 59 years 2010 to 231 now. Why is this? Well, that's because we are now training twice as many policemen overall in the realm as what the Moderates did in their time. We've scaled up overall. You trained about 600 to 700 police officers in total per year in your last years, and now it is over 1,300 in total. Some of these go as I said in Umeå. How do we get more cops? I think we are on exactly the same track: we need to train more, we need to re-recruit some of those who have left the corps and we need to keep more. These are the three measures to be taken. In addition, efforts must be made to remove the bottlenecks that exist in the recruitment process. One problem during your reign was that you stopped military service-- you abolished it. That meant you cut down the National Defence Recruitment Agency. It is the one who carries out the psychological tests which then form the basis for admission to police training. This has meant that, in addition to scaling up police training, we have also had to scale up Totalförsvarets recruitment agency. One concern in recent years has been that there are simply too few psychologists employed at the Recruiting Authority. We have now built this away. From the admissions that take place until the spring, you will be able to test all eligible students who apply. We have a fairly high search pressure on police training: Nearly 10 000 are looking for new training opportunities every time we start new training sessions. We are now building this off: the recruitment authority has increased the number of employees in this business from 130 to 200 in just one year. It takes some time to reverse the development that existed when we took office, where for many years the rate of education was far too low. Now we are about to do so, but I think we would have to come up further. We have 1 300 now, but I think we would have to come up with about 2 000 students in total per year. This is why we start in West Sweden and Malmö. It's not about some kind of competitive situation with Umeå, it's about being able to start in places that we think will attract even more applicants than we already have. I think we fully agree that we need to extend the police's costume over the next few years. Then it is a great deal to increase the rate of education.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-84	Mr President, I would like to This has been heard in every debate in this House since the government took over: it is all the fault of the previous government. It never stops. Three and a half years have passed, and everything that is problematic is the fault of the previous government – everything! To be frank, I believe, Mr President, that voters around Sweden deserve a government that actually takes responsibility for the time it sits and does not try to find scapegoats in history, which I think is very unfortunate. But there are elections soon, and then the voters will have a chance to correct this. As I said, and as I note that the Minister has also noted, more police are needed. Then the question is what to do to get more cops. Then I've identified two parts. One is to get police officers who are currently in the profession to stay. The second is to educate more people. How do we do this? Let me get back to that. When the Minister says that it takes time to reverse the negative developments of the previous government, I would just like to remind those who listen that they are not heading in the right direction. The problem is that today there are fewer police officers than when this government took office. So it has ended so many police officers because of dissatisfaction with management and dissatisfaction with wages that today there are fewer policemen than when you took over government power. Even though more police officers are trained, fewer police officers are out there. In addition, adding population trends makes this even more dramatic, and the number of police officers has decreased very much. From the fact that there have been 486 inhabitants per police officer, it is today 512 inhabitants per police officer. It is said that all the figures point in the right direction, and the minister after the minister stands in this speaker's seat and tells us that progress has been reversed. Yes, you've turned things around. But the problem is, you're on your way down. That is the problem, Mr President. If I'm going to give the minister a few tips from the speaker's chair, I think higher police salaries are part of the solution. Since you took over the government, 3 000 out of 20 000 police officers have left the profession. Police salaries are a very large part of this. Another part is a deep dissatisfaction with the police management that exists. These are things that the government is able to actually influence. These are my tips to the Minister if he actually really wants to remedy what is the problem, i.e. that there will be fewer policemen overall and that there will be more residents per policeman. Then you can turn the trend in the right direction, i.e. not on your way down to the basement.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-91	Mr President, I would like to If I have not understood it wrong, this interpellation is about police training in Umeå, and Edward Riedl is unhappy that there is too few in the police training in Umeå. I point out that there are now more police students than in ten years in Umeå. I want more there. But to say that it is going the wrong way when it comes to police training in Umeå is actually completely wrong. In 2010, as I said, you brought 59 police students into Umeå. Was Edward Riedl then in the speaker's seat complaining about Beatrice Ask? He probably didn't. Since we took office, we have scaled up the education overall, which of course has also led to increases on Umeå's behalf. In 2015, 142 were taken in, in 2016 185 were taken in and in 2017 231 were taken in. That is what this interpellation debate is about. When I hear Edward Riedl reasoning here, I really don't think he's really been watching these numbers. He has only seen that we need a little more in Umeå, but he has no idea that there has actually been a sharp increase in police students in Umeå. That's more than ten years. I fully agree that we need to improve working conditions, invest a lot in the police and ensure that more people are re-cruited to the police. That is precisely why we are now going in with the biggest efforts on the police that any government has made in the last 20 years, regardless of party colour. It is about SEK 2 billion next year, SEK 2.3 billion the following year and SEK 2.8 billion in 2020. There is no government that has gone in with as much money as we do now. We can do that because we have state finances in order and we have plenty of surpluses. In this way, we give priority to our activities. We also give priority to other public activities, but the police are a large part of this. As far as police salaries are concerned, Edward Riedl knows very well what our labour market model looks like. Wage issues lie with the parties. We do not sit here in Parliament and decide how much different groups should have in the pay envelope. We don't do that for anyone. Nor do we do that for the police, but it is for the parties. Yesterday we saw how the parties in the police took the responsibility that they have, namely to agree on a wage agreement that will apply for the next two years. It is a salary agreement that means that the police get more in salary increase than the other groups get. Their wage development will be above the so-called mark. It is a salary agreement which also means investing in police officers in external service and in police officers in the vulnerable areas. In addition, it is a wage agreement that provides the most at the beginning of the period, i.e. it is heavy. There will be a bigger raise at the beginning of the period. That is exactly what the parties have agreed. It happens during our period, not during your period. But we don't interfere in wage formation. In fact, it is the responsibility of the parties. When the issue of wages has been resolved, I believe that this, together with the major efforts we are making on the economy of the Police Authority and together with the expansion of the Recruiting Authority – which can now test all the eligible applicants, which has not been possible before because you cut down so much on the Recruiting Authority – will enable us to achieve the turn that we want. We also start, as I said, two new police training courses in Malmö and West Sweden. Then we will broaden the recruitment documentation further, because we will have even more applicants from these regions. Then we will be able to do this.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-98	Mr President, I would like to Frankly, I think it was the Minister who didn't listen to what I said. I shall therefore try to repeat it. It is a classic trick to try to pretend that the one you are debating is not talking about the right things. My criticism of this government is that today there are fewer police officers after you have been in government for three and a half years than when you took office. Even though you are in the speaker's chair talking very beautifully about how much you are investing, how much you are training and how much you are doing, the problem is that today there are fewer policemen than when you took office. If you include population growth, this is a dramatic development in the wrong direction. That's what I said. I asked the Minister about police training in Umeå, because it is one of the three police training courses we have in Sweden. I also note that we have problems getting applicants to Södertörn and Växjö as well. At two of the last eight course starts it has been full there. We simply have problems in all police training. That is what is important in the debate. There is no intrinsic value in this. Why is it important for me and the Moderates to ensure that the training places are filled? Because it's part of getting more cops. There is no end in it if you do not try to achieve anything. The Minister says that the issue of wages is the responsibility of the parties. Then my answer to the problem is as follows. If you have an employer, if 3 000 out of 20 000 police officers have left the police profession in your three-and-a-half years and if we do not fill the training places, then the current model does not work very well because there will be fewer police officers. That is why we Moderates have said that we want to raise police salaries sharply and that we want to change police management. It is one way of actually addressing these problems. You're heading the wrong way. There are fewer policemen today than when you took office, and the challenges are far greater. That's the problem.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-103	Mr President, I would like to If you wanted more cops, why did you train so few? Then we are back to the fact that you trained 6 00 – 700 per year while 400 – 500 police officers retire each year. Everyone understands that it is far too small a margin. You can't have that low educational pace. With regard to the other elements, both working conditions and wages, I have been looking at wage developments during your time. It was probably not brilliant. In practice, you did nothing to improve working conditions. Wage issues lie with the parties and should be there. We cannot take these questions to the Riksdag and decide what salary increases different occupational groups should have. Then we will soon be able to sit here and decide what wages every professional group should have. It's going to be impossible. The Moderates understood that during their reign. Then the Moderates understood how the labour market model works. Now you are pretending that you do not understand this, that is to say that wage formation is on the parties. But you want to take it to Parliament. No, you can't do that. Then you end up in a Moras, where you eventually get to sit and decide the wages for the occupational group by profession. It's not gonna work. We are now training twice as many police officers as the Moderates did. We have expanded police training in Umeå considerably. As for your speeches, Edward Riedl, you were down and turned on 59 police students in 2010, and now there are 231 police students in Umeå. We will continue to do this. I said we've got 1,300 in police training right now, and I think we're going up to an education rate of 2,000. We're starting two new police trainings. I am quite convinced that a large part of the new ones that will start police training will also apply to Umeå. We will remain on these high numbers, and I think that both I and Edward Riedl are looking forward to the fact that we will be able to continue to speed up the pace of education.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-108	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl has asked me what measures I intend to take to strengthen the security of our trains and how I view the threat of terrorism against Sweden. The main terrorist threat in Sweden today comes from actors inspired by Al-Qaida or related organisations' ideologies. The government has also noted that the internet and social media are key tools for the global al-Qaeda-inspired movement in the spread of propaganda. It is no news that representatives of this movement have called for attacks by relatively simple means. The Government decided in the summer of 2015 to adopt a new Swedish strategy against terrorism. The strategy is a platform for the government's long-term work and describes how we face the threat. At the same time, there should be flexibility to face a changing threat. The continuing terrorist attacks in the world show that we need to follow developments closely. A clear follow-up of the strategy is therefore an important part of the work. One of the objectives of the strategy is to ensure a high level of protection for people, functions and facilities. The government is taking measures to strengthen safety specifically within the railways. During the spring, work started in the rail sector to systematically identify risks and vulnerabilities and to address them. In the spring, the National Railway and Public Transport Protection Council was also set up to coordinate the work. At EU level, there is also a similar complementary coordination exercise on land transport security issues. In addition, the Government has proposed in the budget proposal a total of SEK 138 million during the period 2018 – 2020 in order to increase safety and security at the stations. In the case of individual threats and incidents, it is up to the responsible authorities to deal with them. The primary responsibility of the Swedish Security Service is to detect and prevent terrorist attacks in Sweden. I am, of course, following developments here at home and internationally and I am prepared to consider further measures as a result of the ongoing work against terrorism.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-114	Mr President, I would like to Once again, I thank the Minister for his reply. As I described in my interpellation, al-Qaeda published its magazine again in the summer of 2017, for the first time in quite a long time. There were relatively detailed instructions on how to commit acts of terrorism, and the main focus was on how to make trains, station modes, tracks and other targets for new attacks across Europe and the West. In Sweden, the Swedish Civil Protection Agency informed other authorities in the way it should be done. That's good! The Finnish Transport Agency took its share of the responsibility and also informed the various actors to increase the safety level around this. The threat came in the summer of 2017 – in a relatively clear way, one may well still express. It was not specifically aimed at any individual country but was more about how the terrorist organization wants to work. Unfortunately, Sweden is also one of the countries living with this risk. I've been trying to understand how the government has acted. It is very possible that I am wrong, Mr President, and then the Minister can correct me. But if I understand it correctly, it went from a rather sharp warning four months and then called the government to some sort of round table in December. It is likely that more has happened along the way, and the Minister will be happy to describe this. What I want to emphasise is that the majority of the Committee on Transport, including the Social Democrats, already warned a few years ago about the threat to trains. We have repeated the threat picture we see, and we have said that the government should take this into account. Then we can ask the representative of the government who is in this House how, during these two years, we have been working on precisely the threat to trains after the Committee on Transport has highlighted it. The threat picture in this area has also been further strengthened. I would like to ask the Minister in which forums this is being discussed within the government, Mr President. It may also be important for the listener; not least after another event this summer, it may be interesting to know who is participating in this type of conversation. Is this discussed in the Security Council in the government? Are the talks conducted in other ways in the government? Which ministers are involved in the talks? Is the Prime Minister involved in this kind of conversation?
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-120	Mr President, I would like to During this period, we have carried out extensive work against terrorism, both to combat and prevent it. The basis for this is the two cross-block agreements which together contain 29 action points. The Moderates have been and are in the talks, and we have agreed on these 29 measures. It has been high time to implement a large part of them. When I entered the Ministry of Justice after the 2014 elections, one of the first questions I asked the officials was: What have you done to criminalise terrorist travel? It's about people going to Syria and Iraq and fighting for IS. It peaked in 2013 – 2014, when it was the largest number. I asked what has been done to criminalise this, and it had to be said that there was not a single piece of paper written. The previous government had done nothing to criminalise terrorist travel. So it was one of the first things we had to deal with – to start an investigation about this and make sure to criminalise the trips. We've done that now. We have also extended the criminalisation of terrorist financing. We've done it criminal to accept education. In the past, it was only criminalised to provide terrorist training, and now it is criminal also to receive terrorist training. One can think of that: Only a few years ago, therefore, it was basically allowed to go abroad and train as a terrorist. It is no longer, but we have criminalised this. There is now a bill on the Riksdag's table on better information exchange between Säpo, Must and FRA, and the Riksdag will decide on it next week. It is about easier access to the information you have in common. We presented the bill just before Christmas, and the Riksdag will decide on it next week, as I said. We have more efforts to facilitate information from FRA's signal reconnaissance to, among other things, Säpo. It's on the go; there's an investigation on it. We will also shortly be presenting a proposal for a new security law on the board of the Riksdag. With regard specifically to the railways, I would like to say that the picture is exactly the opposite of what Edward Riedl is suggesting. The cooperation on the railways that I mentioned in my interpellation response, the National Council for Railway and Public Transport Protection, started work already in spring 2017, that is, before the Al-Qaida article came. This collaboration is about precisely this – putting together the police, the security police, the Finnish Transport Agency, the Swedish Transport Agency, Swedish Public Transport, Jernhusen and the railway companies so that they together will review the risks that exist, what vulnerabilities we have and what measures we can take. This is precisely the kind of safety-enhancing work that this cooperation is about. I would like to say, therefore, that the authorities were here in this particular article – in fact. Now they are doing this work with the means they have. It is, of course, a priority for the authorities, because we see that there are risks of terrorist attacks against this particular sector.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-127	Mr President, I would like to I will try to be brief so that I can get to what I wish the Minister's answer to. I would like to start by thanking you for a good description of both the cross-block cooperation against terrorism and the initiatives of the previous government; that is absolutely good and complements the picture. In my interpellation, I wanted to highlight the threat to trains. I described the al-Qaeda article from the summer of 2017 and tried to put it into the context that the Transport Committee, including the Social Democrats, raised these issues two years ago. I try to interpret the Minister– sometimes one can do so, and if I have interpreted the Minister wrong, he can say so – and if I interpret him correctly, nothing further has been done with the work that the Alliance Government started in spring 2014 on precisely the threat to trains. But I may have misunderstood the Minister. My point is that I wonder who in the government is involved. Are these issues discussed in the Security Council, for example? The Minister should be able to answer that here. Which ministers are involved in such talks? Is the Prime Minister himself involved? It may be of interest to those who listen to it. Above all, what further initiatives do you think should be taken in this area? If I understood correctly, before Christmas the government held some kind of round table discussion with the actors. Is there any further reason to do something more, or is the Minister satisfied with the work that has already been done in this area?
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-132	Mr President, I would like to I do not know what Edward Riedl means would have happened and what the previous government would have done in spring 2014. I spoke about what happened in spring 2017, i.e. when the National Council for Railway and Public Transport Protection was set up and started its work. And it was done before the Al Qaeda article. That is part of the work that this government has done. And it is a collaboration between the police, Säpo, Trafikverket, Transportstyrelsen, Swedish Public Transport, Jernhusen and the railway companies. Together, there are systematic reviews of the vulnerabilities, the risks involved and the actions that can be taken together in the context of ordinary activities. I believe that what is most effective is precisely to ensure that all these important actors are given the same information and that they have a job that systematically reviews what needs to be done to secure up. We also have other things going on. In the interpellation response, I mentioned the additional SEK 138 million that we are now making to strengthen the protection of stations. This may include more employees, such as security guards. It can also be important from a safety point of view. The more eyes there are at stations, for example, the greater the possibility of detecting any threats. The same goes for camera surveillance. We've expanded the camera surveillance on the stations as a whole. But we have also given a special investigator, Johan Sjöö, the task of reviewing the regulatory framework for this in the future. I also mentioned the exchange of information between Säpo, Must and FRA, the issue of signal reconnaissance and the Security Act. So we are taking a variety of measures. In the government, of course, we discuss this often and very much. The Prime Minister is deeply involved in all security issues. Over these years, we have seen the threat still at a high level and a number of terrorist attacks. So we are not going to lower our guard in any way. On the contrary, we will continue to expand our work. Before the elections, we will also be able to put forward proposals to further extend the criminalisation of associations and participation in terrorist organisations. Then we'll have a criminalization that will cover even better. To sum up, I can say that what we are doing here is about better regulation, better exchange of information between the authorities and targeted work against this sector.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-139	Mr President, I would like to I'll keep it even shorter than in the last post. I would like to thank the Minister for a good debate. It feels good that the Prime Minister, as I understand it from the answers the Minister has given here, is also involved in the discussions on these issues.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-141	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to thank you for the debate. I believe that we should strive for as broad a consensus as possible on these issues. The basis we now have is the two cross-block agreements, which together involve 29 points of action. Of them, the issues are a part, cooperation between authorities is a part and exchange of information is a part. In this period, what has already meant, as I said, is that we have considerably expanded our activities in preventing and preventing terrorism. No one can guarantee, of course, that attacks will not occur. But we will do everything we can to reduce the risk of it and to make ourselves more alert.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-144	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl has asked me if I would like to introduce an exit ban on stolen goods in Chapter 8. The criminal code, as proposed by the Finnish Customs, or possibly a new regulation prohibiting the export of stolen goods. Ellen Juntti has asked me whether on my list of measures against foreign theft leagues I intend to add a review of the legislation so as to be able to expel foreign citizens for crime at six months' worth of punishment. It is a significant and growing problem that international crime networks come to Sweden to commit organised criminal offences. According to the police, these crime networks account for about half of all residential offences in the country. They also account for a clear majority of the thefts of boat engines, car parts and larger agricultural machinery. The investigation of the crimes is also hampered by the rapid removal of the stolen goods from Sweden. The government takes a very serious view of the spread of criminal networks, and I will take strong action to make it more difficult for them. Some have already been done. Among other things, the Police Authority introduced in 2016 a national model for crime coordination. It is estimated to have increased the police's ability to identify and intervene against mobile organised crime moving across large areas. The government has also taken legislative measures in the area of property crime, for example in order to increase the importance of integrity violations if a theft is to be considered serious. On behalf of the Prime Minister, we are also working to develop a package of measures against theft leagues. That package will be presented shortly. The Finnish Customs is responsible for monitoring and controlling traffic to and from Sweden, so that the rules on the entry and exit of goods are complied with. It is not part of Customs' data to check if stolen goods are taken out of the country. If the Swedish Customs still finds suspected stolen goods in connection with customs control, the Swedish Police Authority will be contacted. There is reason to look at how to better prevent stolen goods from being taken out of the country. The government will therefore shortly be commissioning the Police Authority, the Customs Agency and the Coast Guard to develop their cooperation to strengthen the fight against international crime networks that commit criminal offences in this country. To deal with stolen goods by taking it out of the country is already criminalised as a fence. However, in order to intervene at an even earlier stage, there may also be grounds for criminalising attempts and preparation for normal heeling. I will therefore shortly instruct an investigator to analyse the issue and make such a proposal. The investigator shall also make proposals for, among other things, a new crime aiming at systematic theft and a proposal for theft following the break-in of a dwelling to be given a special criminal classification, with a minimum sentence of imprisonment for one year. Such changes may lead to deportation being considered a proportionate measure in more cases than at present. At the same time, I would like to point out that it is already possible to expel a foreign citizen who commits crimes if he or she is sentenced to more severe penalties than fines and there is a risk of continued crime.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-154	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. We have a situation that has escalated in 2017. This is precisely about the increase in stolen goods leaving the country and the burglary wave in all parts of the country that I think everyone has read about in some way. It's about everything from theft of boat engines to apartment and house break-ins. Ordinary, hardworking people throughout the country discover that their boat engine was stolen or that the apartment or villa was cleaned of all value. But also companies are being robbed of tractors and construction machines. These are packed into containers and trucks, driven onto ferries and leaving the country. The police themselves make the assessment in a recent report that about half of all burglaries are committed by foreign theft leagues. Sweden has become a paradise for organised criminals in Europe. The risk of detection is low, i.e. the risk of getting caught when committing crimes is very low in Sweden. If you get caught, the penalties are very low. If you have also committed repeated crimes you get in Sweden a fantastic penalty discount, which means that you only need to pay for the first serious crime. All of this has, as I said, made Sweden a paradise for organised theft leagues around Europe. I was frankly surprised, Mr President, the first time I met customs officials who explained how the legislation works. It may seem that one should know as a Member of Parliament, but I was surprised to learn that customs has no right to prevent the export of stolen goods from the country. Even if Customs knows it's stolen goods, you can't stop it unless you call the police. That's how it works. The police don't have time for the stolen goods to be taken out of the country. Several of the customs officials with whom I have spoken feel abandoned and would like to have increased powers. That, Mr President, is what my interpellation is about. There are two different ways to go here. A change of regulation can be introduced and a ban on the export of stolen goods can be introduced. Then customs officials would have the right to stop even common stolen goods. Today we have to stop drugs and some other things that are about to leave the country, but otherwise we do not have that power. The second thing that could be used is to make a legislative change in, for example, Chapter 8. The penal code imposing an exit ban on stolen goods. Then the ma n would give the customs officials the right that most of us live in the belief that customs already has, that is, the right to stop stolen goods on the way out of the country. Today, things are disappearing for both individuals and businesses for billions. All this is to be paid for by those in Sweden who pay insurance premiums. With this development, insurance premiums increase very quickly. I've met an insurance company about boat engines. In practice, the premiums would have to be doubled in terms of development in 2017. Everyone is allowed to pay for the fact that this does not work out. Could the Minister consider making such changes?
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-163	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Justice for your answer. Christmas has just passed, and it has been high season for burglars. Many have come home to their home after a pleasant Christmas celebration and seen their home upside down. As Edward Riedl said, it is about half of the burglaries committed by foreign theft leagues. There are very few of the burglaries that are cleared up, about 2 – 3 percent, and the burglars who are convicted are sentenced to very low penalties. The police themselves say that Sweden is a sandwich table for foreign leagues. It's kind of like they can just come here and take what they want. Just a few days ago, the Crime Prevention Council presented a report showing that insecurity is increasing. The police are getting the lowest figure of confidence since 2006. Confidence in the entire judiciary has decreased. We Moderates think it's very serious. We want to introduce a new offence, burglary, with a minimum sentence of one year. Today, the offence is gross theft with a minimum sentence of six months. So we want to increase the penalty. The Riksdag has announced this to the Government several times – the first time was 2015. But given the justice minister's answer, the government has woken up now and is about to appoint an investigator. That's good, but it's taken a very long time. With so many foreign theft leagues committing these burglaries and destroying people in many ways – both physically and mentally – my question is whether the Minister of Justice is prepared to lower the requirement for the expulsion of foreign criminals. We Moderates want more to be expelled. We want to reduce the penalty to six months. We also want it to be exemplified without any risk of relapse. We also want the prosecutor to always demand expulsion when such conditions exist. The prosecutors don't today. Sometimes you are amazed when you read about serious crimes – not only burglary but also other serious crimes – where the prosecutor chooses not to demand expulsion. It is good that the government has taken hold of this and will come up with a proposal regarding burglary – better late than never. We set a limit in the first announcement of 1 April this year. Then my question to the Minister for Justice is: When does he expect a proposal to come to Parliament's table? First the investigator is appointed, and then the whole process will be reviewed. When does a proposal arrive? Will the government take the initiative to expel more criminals?
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-170	Mr President, I would like to I think you should be a little careful with the words. It is easy that the rhetoric is moving away. Edward Riedl talked about that it is a wave of burglars, that Sweden is a paradise for thieves and so on. We have the same report, and we look at the statistics reduced theft and seizure offences last year by 3%. Housing offences increased, yes, by 3 per cent. But it wasn't a doubling. If you're talking about a burglary wave against that background, you might want to think about your choice of words. The apartment break-ups increased the most. Villa break-ins actually decreased last year. It wasn't by much, by 1 percent, but they fell anyway. After all, some nuances are needed. That does not mean taking this lightly. It also beats different over the country. In fact, break-ins in southern Sweden decreased by 30 percent. It is probably a lot about that we now have border controls in southern Sweden, but also about good police work to prevent that kind of crime. This should not be taken lightly in any way, on the contrary. It is a major concern that international theft leagues account for a large proportion of the crimes we are talking about. It's between 40% and 50%, the police think. That is precisely why we are now taking several measures. I told you in the interpellation response that we will shortly be presenting a coherent package of measures against foreign theft leagues. The issues we are discussing here are part of this package. I can mention a few more of them. We must improve police cooperation with the countries from which some of these theft leagues come. Just before Christmas, I met representatives of Romania and Lithuania. There are two countries with which we have some concerns. Both countries were very open to further extending police cooperation. Romania is ready to send police officers to Sweden to assist in the criminal investigations involving Romanian citizens. Another issue that is very much related to what Mrs Juntti spoke about is the question of expulsion. If you raise the penalties for breaking and entering, it will have the effect of making it easier to expel. But I'd like to take it one step further. If you are convicted in Sweden for a crime, the sentence must be served in your home country. There is no reason to allow such prison places. Right now there are 50 Lithuanians and 50 Romanians in Swedish prisons. There is no reason for them to serve the sentence here when they have no connection with Sweden. There is also work in progress with Lithuania and Romania precisely to achieve this. You get around what Ellen Juntti wants. Then there is the whole question of preventing the export of stolen goods. This is, of course, a concern. I say in the interpellation response that a mission is now on its way to customs, Coast Guard and the police to see how they can improve their cooperation in that part too. The Coast Guard also encounters some stolen goods when controlling what is going on the ferries. Among other things, these are the big things that are brought out, such as agricultural machinery and other things. I believe that cooperation here can be further developed. In addition, the government will decide this afternoon on the investigation that will address the whole issue of housing and burglary. As has already been said, we are setting up this investigation today.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-180	Mr President, I would like to Let me first say that I share the Minister's view that one should be careful with words and not pull away in any way. However, the idea of a nuance, which the Minister is calling for, in this particular case I do not really share. I have met customs officials and police officers, which I understand the Minister has also done. I have also met insurance companies and some of those who have been victims of thefts like these. For those who listen, I can tell you that their picture is much less nuanced than the picture the Minister has. The combination of low detection risk, low penalties and non-existent border control is the reason why these gangs have gone to Sweden. Therefore, people from more countries than before have also found their way here. The police and customs express the words I said about Sweden becoming a paradise for organised criminal theft gangs. Because they're rational. They don't care which country they go to, they want to make money and they can steal anything. It's all about money. They weigh revenues against risks. Unfortunately, Sweden in the case I have just described has become a paradise for the leagues because the detection risk is low and the penalties are low. Part of what the Minister is talking about is what we in this House, too, have talked about in the past and what we Moderates have driven. We need to get the penalties up and increase the detection risk. I debated with the Minister for Finance the other day about what is happening with boat engines and cars. In them there are trackers, so that you can follow the stolen goods until it either ends up in a gathering place where you white j is the boat engines and collect them to see if the police are interested. Unless they're loaded into trucks. In these trucks and containers there are now jammers. With very simple technology, you can detect these in Sweden's ports. There is much that can be done, Mr President, to get to grips with the problems. I will return to my question, and I apologise if I listened poorly to the Minister. Maybe he gave an answer. How does the Minister feel about giving customs increased powers to stop stolen goods coming out of the country? I will not go through the technicalities; one can choose a little different paths. The question is very simple, and it can be answered with a yes or a no. Today, customs officials lack the authority and authority to stop most of the stolen goods. There are a few exceptions: they get to stop drugs coming out of the country. But then there's quite a stop to prevent other things. They depend on the police, and if the police have much else to do, there is no functioning border control. Can the Minister consider giving more powers to customs officials to help and be part of the solution to this?
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-188	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Justice, for your answer. Improving cooperation with countries such as Romania and Bulgaria is, of course, a good thing, and the proposal to be able to spend prison sentences in one's own country is also a good one. However, it may take many years before this becomes a reality. That is why I think we should tighten up our own laws, because one does not exclude the other. I listened to a question session in December in which Tobias Billström asked Stefan Löfven a question. Billström then brought up the foreign theft leagues. Promises called this a business model. I think it is a very strange expression to use, because this is very serious crime. For example, on most occasions thieves have broken into people's homes in the middle of the night while families are sleeping. Among other things, only a few months ago a house was broken into. Imagine yourself waking up in the middle of the night and it's pitch dark. Suddenly you hear foreign voices in the living room and you think, "Oh, my God, what's going on?" Where are the kids? Did they hurt the kids? In the case I'm telling you about, they had tied the family to the kitchen floor, including the children. You can imagine what a horror it is to sit and see your own children who have been tied to the kitchen floor while several people go rooting among the stuff. You don't know if they're gonna hurt the family or if they're just gonna steal. This is very serious crime, and I do not think you can ignore it and call it a business model, as Mr Löfven did in the debate I raised. As I said, we want stricter penalties and more to be expelled. We also want them to be expelled in a longer period of time. If they illegally return to the country, they now usually go to prison for a month. We want the minimum sentence to be six months in prison. Edward Riedl mentioned the quantity rebate, which is something few people understand, and neither do I. It means that the more crimes you do, the cheaper it becomes – the fourth crime is more or less free at a single trial. This too, the Moderates want to tighten up considerably. We want full punishment for the three major crimes, as we propose in our criminal policy programme that we have just presented. The Minister of Justice said there are possibilities to expel now, too. But this is usually the case only when someone is sentenced to one year in prison and there is a risk of relapse. We want this to happen when you are sentenced to six months in prison and there is no risk of relapse. I have listed several different sharpenings that we in the Moderates want to do in the case of expulsions. If I have understood the Minister of Justice correctly, he does not want to do this. The Minister of Justice wants more criminals expelled?
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-198	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by making a point about the fact that it is trying to paint a picture of the fact that it is now increasing and increasing. Then the statistics must first be clear. If it turns out that housing break-ins increase by 3 per cent, you have to be clear about this. On the other hand, if it turns out that the house crimes actually decrease from 2016 to 2107, it must also be clear. You can't go out to the public and create a picture of something completely different, when it looks exactly like this. I am pleased that the break-ins in southern Sweden have gone down by 30% and believe that this is related to border control. Edward Riedl said in his speech that we have a non-existent border control. What do you mean, nonexistent? We have border controls in southern Sweden since 12 November 2015. We have gradually expanded it so that in practice we now control over 90% of those entering the country. Of course, this has had an effect on some of these leagues. They see that the risk of detection has increased, which is why we have had an effect in southern Sweden. So do not claim that we have a non-existent border control, because it is in fact exactly the opposite! I would like to come back to what measures we are going to take. I believe in the following: better police cooperation with the countries concerned. I told you about Romania and Lithuania. In fact, Romania directly offered police cooperation itself. You want to send Romanian police to Sweden to help. This has been done to a number of other countries, where they are the national police organisations. This is very effective, because they know what kind of networks we are talking about. In this way, we will also have access to all the information we need, including from Romanian registers, about which individuals are involved here. We get direct access to this, and we are now working with the Romanian authorities to achieve this as soon as possible. From the outset, we have had fairly good cooperation with Lithuania, but it can be further improved. We also have a very constructive attitude from the Lithuanian police authorities in this regard. But in both cases it is a matter of ensuring that those we judge in Sweden serve the sentences in their home countries. And it won't take a few years to see to this, Ellen Juntti. I would think that the amendment of the law that Ellen Juntti is looking for takes much longer than a bilateral agreement with Lithuania, for example, to serve the sentences in her home countries. I would like to see a system in which those convicted in Sweden can then be sent home to their home countries rather quickly. There is no reason for us to have them in Swedish prisons. If you increase the penalties for housing offences then you also have an effect on the expulsion side. But if you are to be effective, that is the path I am taking, that is agreements with these countries. I think that's going to go a lot faster. When it comes to preventing the export of stolen goods, we are about to give a special assignment to customs, Coast Guard and police. We will decide on this in a moment. Customs powers as such lie formally in the Ministry of Finance and not on me. They must speak of the responsible minister. But when we give a joint assignment to these authorities, it is clear that we will also be able to improve our efforts to prevent the export of stolen goods from Sweden. Last of all, I would like to say that this afternoon we will be deciding on the review of, among other things, burglary offences and thefts that have been requested and which I think it is important that we get in place.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-206	Mr President, I would like to It always feels a little uncomfortable when trying to correct a minister who is wrong in the speaker's chair. But I was actually going to do this, and I apologise for that in advance, Mr President. What I said was that the border control for export is non-existent. That's what I've been talking about. My entire interpellation and all my posts have been about the stolen goods being taken out of the country. The Minister is talking about the border control of people who are entering the country. The minister is wrong, and the minister is talking about the wrong things. According to the customs authorities themselves, approximately 1 – 2 % of its capacity is used to handle exports. The other 98 - 99 percent are used to control what is entering the country. Hence the problem I am trying to describe. In accordance with the regulatory letters, much of the customs resources are focused on dealing with what is entering the country. The problem is that goods are also taken out of the country, as is the case with this wave of theft. For example, half of all housing breaches are carried out by these international theft leagues. And when goods are taken out of the country, border control is non-existent. That is what I have been talking about, Mr President. I hope it became clear to the Minister as well. I think most people find it a strange order that customs have no authority to stop stolen goods coming out of the country. When the customs officer standing there knows that there are stolen goods leaving the country, he or she lacks the authority to stop it other than by calling the police. If the police don't have time, the stolen goods will go straight out of the country. I mean, that order is not good. I hear the Minister says this is not his responsibility. But this is the subject of my entire interpellation. The fact that this is not the responsibility of the Minister may be the reason why he has chosen not to respond to this in the two previous speeches. But then it is a pity that the Minister of Finance is not here to answer if she is willing to give these powers to customs officials.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-210	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister of Justice for his answer. As I said earlier, cooperation with these countries, particularly Romania and Bulgaria, is a very good thing. It is also good if the sentenced person is allowed to serve his or her sentence in his or her home country. That's great, and I don't mind. It's just that one doesn't exclude the other. I think there's a need for tightening up. When it comes to burglary, it's on the way, and I hope it's not pulled in the long way. But there is also a need for a great deal of tightening up on expulsions. This interpellation is about burglary and foreign theft leagues, but we want the strengthening of deportation to apply to all crimes. As an example, I can mention serious sexual crimes. There are those who have committed gross rapes and yet are not expelled. I simply think that is wrong. As I said, we want to tighten up the expulsions and ensure that more are expelled. We want to lower the limit to six months' penalty. We want them to be expelled in longer periods of time. We want this to be done even when there is no relapse risk. We want the prosecutor to always try this and be obliged to do so, which they do not always do now even if the conditions exist. I also believe that a large part of the Swedish people want this tightening up. Is the Minister of Justice prepared to tighten up the expulsion of foreign criminals? So it's about all the crimes, not just the burglary that this interpellation is about.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-214	Mr President, I would like to Serious sexual offences typically result in such high penalties that, if they can be carried out, expulsion is the basis. However, it is not all countries to which expulsions can be carried out. It's a concern. However, it cannot be said that gross sexual crimes would typically not lead to expulsion, for they give such high penalties. Edward Riedl said we have no border control. Actually, that's what he said, and that's what I reacted to. One of the effects of the border control we now have in southern Sweden is, in my view, that there is now a reduction in the number of burglaries in that part of the country. This is because you hesitate to go in and out of the country because you think there is an increased risk of being discovered, and that belief is justified. If we are to tackle this, we need to take action in several areas. I've been talking about better police cooperation. We have taken such initiatives in relation to other countries. My entrance is that you should serve your sentences at home, in the country you come from, and that you should be sent home as soon as possible after you have been convicted in Sweden. We are on our way in such discussions with the countries we are talking about, and those talks are very constructive. With regard to preventing the export of stolen goods, I refer to the mission to customs, Coast Guard and the police. If you would then like to come back to the customs authority and the legislation on the table of the Ministry of Finance, you will have to ask the Minister for Finance for an intervention.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-218	Mr President, I would like to Tomas Tobé has asked me if I intend to take any steps to ensure that Sweden's police officers receive a targeted salary bet. The government has decided and announced a uniquely large grant enhancement to the Police Authority, and now it needs to secure the skills supply of police officers. The previous government had too few police officers trained, which is now causing problems. The government in office has higher ambitions and has taken steps that we can now see signs of have led to a reversal of developments. The recruitment of new police officers to police training is increasing, and the number of police officers leaving was lower in 2017 compared to 2016. The police authority has been commissioned by the government to launch a recruitment campaign and to investigate the conditions for starting police training in two new locations in the country. In order to prevent police officers from leaving, the government has also commissioned the Police Authority to improve the working environment and to review alternative career paths. The government has thus taken a series of measures to increase the number of police officers. I will also continue to follow this issue very closely and, if necessary, ensure that more action is taken. Wage negotiations in the Police Authority are ongoing, but the government should not interfere in wage formation. This responsibility has been delegated to the social partners.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-222	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, we have a criminality that is spreading in Sweden. There's a record number of people getting shot to death. We've seen a doubling of the number of victims of sexual crimes in just two years. We have foreign theft leagues that are ravaging the country. It is very clear to the vast majority that we need a criminal policy that tightens the penalties and increases the powers of the police and several others in the judiciary. But everyone realises that if we don't get the Swedish police in order, we won't be able to reverse the trend either. The Alliance government had a very clear objective that we need to increase the number of police officers. A tough target was then set with 20,000 police officers. There was nothing directly applauded by the other parties at that time. They worked hard and ensured that they reached those levels. The first thing this government did was to remove the basic requirement that we should have at least 20 000 police officers in Sweden. A new Chief Police Officer was recruited who did not require much funding for reorganisation and other things. It has been boasted that more police training has now been started. It makes a lot of sense. If it can help us recruit more people, that's a good thing. But in fact, the main problem is that we have very many empty training places. We now have a record need for many who are going into police training, and we must stop the flight from Swedish police. There were over 900 police officers who left the profession last year. It is not just a matter of reaching retirement age. That's a real problem. The Minister of Justice and Home Affairs claims that with the Social Democrats there will be 10,000 more police officers. The reality is that after three and a half years with the minister in charge we have fewer police officers in Sweden. If it is not enough just to make political speeches about more policemen, you will ask yourself: What are the reasons? It's about the fact that it's a tough profession. But it's also about pay. You can't get away with the fact that it's too bad police wages in Sweden. We have a responsibility. It is we who provide the conditions for the social partners for how much wage increases we can give to the Swedish police. I do not think anyone believes that we can reverse developments if we do not ensure that we get increased police salaries. That is why I wonder: why are we so extremely stubborn from the government to say no to a targeted salary increase for the Swedish police? It is good that the social partners are now doing what they can with the conditions in place. However, if we are to meet the major challenge, Mr President, a targeted wage effort will be required. From the Moderates the message is clear. We put forward in the draft budget that we Moderates have put forward initiatives that mean SEK 3 000 in increased monthly salary. It shall be negotiated by the social partners. However, it is clear that we realise that wages must be raised if experienced police officers are to return and record numbers are to be attracted to police training.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-232	Mr President, I would like to There were so many half-truths in what was said that I don't really know where to start. One is when Tomas Tobé says that the alliance government set the target of 20,000 and that it was certainly not applauded by others. The truth is that the target of 20 000 police officers was set by the Social Democratic Government in 2006. It was we who laid the foundation for that election. Of course, it is a concern that the bourgeois government, in its last term of office, was unable to maintain the dimensionation of education at such a level that it could do this. It's the impact shadow we're still living with. You trained 600, 700 cops a year. It is far too little when 400 to 500 police officers retire each year. Tomas Tobé says 900 police officers are quitting. Approximately half are retirements, between 400 and 500 depending on the year you are looking at. The basic problem has been that you were far too low on the educational side. My question to Tomas Tobé is: If you wanted more policemen, why did you train as few as 600, 700? It takes two and a half years to train a cop. What we are suffering from now is that you had such a low level of ambition during your last term of office. We have now turned around. We are now training twice as many police officers as the Moderates did. We're up to 1,300. We're going up to 2,000. We'll be able to make it. By 2024, we'll have 10,000 more employees in the Police Department. That's exactly what we're working on. When it comes to the issue of wages, you moderates usually understand how the Swedish labour market and the Swedish labour market model work when you are in government. But as soon as you find yourself in opposition, it suddenly seems to have gone away and as if you no longer understand how it works. One can then have a policy of overbendering. The Center wants SEK 2 000 more for the police in the pay envelope, the Moderates want SEK 3 000 more in the pay envelope, the Liberals want SEK 4 000 more in the pay envelope, and I heard the Christian Democrats say in a debate that they want SEK 5 000 more in the pay envelope. It is a kind of unheeded wage populism that is fundamentally rather unserious when you stand in the Chamber and try to give the impression that it is Parliament that is going to set salaries. In addition, Tomas Tobé has a very bad luck. Yesterday, the Police Association and the Police Authority agreed on a new two-year agreement which means higher salaries than other groups receive. They're above the mark. In addition, this means special efforts on police officers in external service and special efforts on them in vulnerable areas. In addition, it is strong, that is to say, it is particularly important during the first year. The money that Tomas Tobé has set aside, 300 million for next year, would not have been enough for that wage agreement. Had the Moderates ruled and remained within the 300 million, wage developments would have been worse than what the Police Federation and the Police Authority have now managed to negotiate. It is fortunate that we do not do the way Tomas Tobé wants to do, but that we have a system in which it is the social partners who decide on wage formation. I'd love to do that.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-243	Mr President, I would like to I have to let those who follow the debate decide what is populism. It may be someone who might consider it populist to promise 10,000 more police officers while in reality fewer police officers. It is basically a matter of responsibility. Let's talk a little bit about police training. At least it seems to involve the Minister of Justice and Home Affairs. We can go back historically and see what it looks like. In 2008, 1,700 were trained, right? It is clear that the volume of police training has been based on the political objectives that have been. The problem is that if you now set a target of 10 000 more police officers, how do you think you can achieve it if you do not ensure that we also raise police salaries significantly? A targeted wage effort will be required. I am absolutely sure that this conclusion will eventually also come to the attention of the Social Democrats. You won't be able to keep enough experienced cops. You will not be able to attract enough people to police training if we do not do this. Then, of course, it is not a simple question. It is clear that we must have respect for what it can mean and that it is the social partners who govern wage formation in Sweden. We had earlier this discussion about the teachers. I note that when the Minister is sitting in government meetings, he feels that it is clear that a targeted salary bet is given to Sweden's teachers. But when it comes to his own area of responsibility and to the police, and despite the crisis we currently have in the Swedish police, he does not think it is important to make such an addition to the authority. I'm sorry about that. I can assure you that we of the Moderates will. I would also like to thank the Minister for listing the proposals made by my colleagues in the alliance. All the alliance parties are now behind us making a targeted salary investment to the Swedish police. I think that's very good. It is a declaration of strength that, when we hopefully receive support from the Swedish people after the next election, we will tackle the problems that exist within the Swedish police. We will ensure that there will be a new lead on the ground. We spend a great deal of money on the agency, which also includes special wage initiatives. We will ensure that the country's police are given better powers in order to clear up crimes. To conclude, Mr President, I wonder whether the Minister can explain to me why it is reasonable to make a targeted salary commitment to Sweden's teachers but not reasonable to make it to Sweden's police officers. My second question is this: does the Minister seriously believe that the agreement that has now been concluded will be applauded by the Swedish police? I can assure the Minister that the officers out there are disappointed. They had hopes that now would finally come proper bets for the vast majority. There are parts of this agreement that are good, but it is far from enough for the country's police to get what they deserve and for us to be able to attract more to become police officers in this country.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-251	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Justice. I just want to stress how important it is to pay police officers. The Minister of Justice deals with the agreement that has recently been signed. I have read many reactions on Facebook that police have written, and most are very unhappy. This is not going to solve any major problems. No one but the police can do the police job. So I am talking about different areas where you have to be a police officer and not a civil investigator. To show that you think this is important, you should ensure that the police have real wages. I've been a cop myself for over 30 years, and I know what an incredibly demanding job it is. I think the Minister of Justice and most others understand that. But if you haven't been a cop, it's hard to fully understand. It is a dangerous job, as we have seen recently, with all the blasts and attacks on police stations and even on police homes. In order for people to feel that it is worth exposing themselves to this risk, wages must be significantly increased. It's a difficult job, with lightning-fast decisions. Sometimes you don't have time to think, but you have to react with your spinal cord. It's also a disgusting job. If you've been looking for a house in a drug quartet, you know what it's like. It's not the funniest thing you can do. Family life is damaged. When the family is going to sit in front of the TV on Friday and have family love, the police have to say: "Bye, now I'm going to a dangerous job, and I don't know if I'm getting hurt tonight or not!" That is the concern that many feel. Among other things, I read an article about the explosion at the police station in Rosengård. A child of a cop would have told his mother, "Oh, isn't that the police station that Dad works at?" So there are incredible pressures on both the police and the families. There's a lot you have to forego in your private life as a cop. For example, I played basketball — a team sport. You have to stop doing that because it doesn't work out just 50 percent of the training sessions. Then you have to quit. I am aware that shifts are also being worked in many other professions, but now I am highlighting the police. There are great risks, it affects family life and it affects many other things. It also affects the psyche to very often receive spit and spe. A study has been carried out at the University of Gothenburg, where an essay has concluded that most police officers leave the profession because wages are so low. They simply do not think it is worth enduring all these negative aspects for the low salary. As has been said, targeted wage initiatives have been given to teachers. It's a municipal question. I therefore wonder why police action cannot be targeted, which is a government issue. As Tomas Tobé said, the Moderates will have specifically targeted pay efforts to the police.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-258	Mr President, I would like to One problem in the debate is that the money you set aside for a targeted wage investment is less money than is now due. If it had been up to you to decide, then the police would have had a worse wage development than this agreement provides. Tomas Tobé says that there is dissatisfaction in some parts of the police force with the agreement. It is the Police Federation and the Police Authority that are negotiating an agreement. The responsibility lies with them. Who should have what in the pay envelope is not something that we sit in Parliament negotiating on, but it is a party issue. You know that, too. If you had done what you wanted and spent 300 million, the wage trend would have been worse. Of course, the discontent in some places would have been even greater. I would like to say, Mr President, that it shows the risk of the state putting off a certain pot of money that is to be negotiated and that there will then be so much. That is exactly why the parties should have this full responsibility. With the Moderates, it would have been a worse wage development than the agreement now provides. I think it is a concern for you if you are to get out of the debate. We'll have to have some order and find out how we formulate ourselves. We promise 10,000 more police officers by 2024. I thought Tomas Tobé said we promised 10,000 more cops. But we have promised 10,000 more police employees. You have promised 10 000 more police employees by 2025, so you have a lower level of ambition than the government has. By the way, you also have a lower level of ambition in terms of the number of policemen overall. I expect that about two thirds of these 10 000 will be police officers, and then we are talking about 6 000 – 7 000 by 2024. Your figure is 5,000, so you have a lower level of ambition in terms of the number of police officers. This applies until 2025, so it is in two ways. You have to keep an eye on the figures, Mr President. We are now making the biggest effort on the police that any government has made in 20 years. There will be 2 billion this year, 2.3 billion the following year and 2.8 billion in 2020. There is no government, regardless of party colour, that has gone in with as much money as we have. The police department is getting more money this year than you ever wanted. This is due, among other things, to the fact that it is possible to cover costs that may arise in order to improve the working conditions of police officers. You can do that in many ways. The issue of wages is one such thing, and career paths are another. We have to trust that the parties – and I am talking about the Police Authority and the Police Federation – take responsibility and bear the wage formation in Sweden. This is what creates the Swedish labour market model. Tomas Tobé asks why we have done differently for the teachers. The teachers are an exception. This was justified by the fact that there was a long delay in teachers' salaries. It was also about the OECD and others having evaluated Sweden and pointed out precisely the issue of wages. That is why this was done. But if we are to start going this way and taking a professional group by profession, we will soon have nurses, nurses, doctors and all the other professions for which we are to stand here and negotiate salaries. No one, Ellen Juntti, is in any way underestimating the amazing work the police are doing. I meet cops practically every day, and I'm incredibly proud of Swedish police work. They're supposed to be well paid for the job they do. But pay matters should be on the parties. Otherwise, we run the risk of having a very difficult situation in which occupational groups by occupational group will be dealt with in this House. The Moderates generally understand that when they are in government. But they obviously don't understand it in opposition.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-264	Mr President, I would like to To be clear to those listening to this debate, I would like to say that the Moderates propose 10 billion to the Swedish police over three years. Wages are, of course, being made to ensure what normally falls into this type of agreement that we have seen and that it would mean more. That would amount to about $1,000 in increased pay for a police officer. Are we going to try to nuance this debate? Yeah. It is not unproblematic to take this kind of action, but there is a sense of crisis insight now. Does it seem to be a problem that many policemen leave the profession and that there are too few police officers? Yeah, we think it's getting really bad. In fact, there are now even fewer police officers than when the Minister of Justice and Home Affairs took office, despite all the fine speeches that there will be more police officers. If you compare it with the teachers' salaries, then we have a direct responsibility here. It is indirectly the state that is the employer. It is clear that it is not unreasonable when we give a great deal of effort to the Police Authority that we also ensure that there are proper means to also increase wages, which even the Minister for Justice and Home Affairs' own chief police officer has wanted to have the opportunity to do. Mr President, I would like to It must be understood that if we are to manage to get the number of policemen up enough, the Moderates or, for that matter, this government will achieve the goal of up to 10,000 more police officers, we need a targeted wage effort. Otherwise, we will be standing here in a few years' time with even fewer police officers.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-268	Mr President, I would like to Tomas Tobé is there again: you do not promise 10,000 more police officers. You're promising 5,000 more police officers by 2025. That's what your program looks like. On the other hand, you promised 10,000 more police officers by 2025. I would point this out so that we agree on what the Moderates themselves are proposing. We promise 10 000 more police officers by 2024, and I believe that between 6 000 and 7 000 of them will need to be police officers. But that distribution has to be done by the police department. With regard to the issue of wages itself and the agreement signed yesterday and borne by the parties, the agreement provides for better wage developments than other groups' agreements. It is very important that wage formation is carried by responsible parties on both sides, and that is how it should be throughout the Swedish labour market model. The contract signed yesterday is above the mark. There is also a special focus on those who work in external services and a special focus on those who work in vulnerable areas. In addition, it's heavy. Some of the money that we are giving – historically much, 2 billion already this year – has been spent on the salary development of the police within this framework. Had they done as you, Tomas Tobé, so-called woolly suggest and used your 300 million for wage developments, they would have had a lower wage development with lower wages. That is why this should be handled between the parties. We should not sit here in Parliament and decide how much should go to wage development and how much should go to business, but it must be the parties who carry this out. As I have said, we are now implementing the greatest increase in resources to the police force that any government has made in the last 20 years. It will go to more police officers, to more investigations, to increase efficiency and, of course, also to improve police working conditions.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-273	Mr President, I would like to Tomas Tobé has asked me whether I intend to review the possibility of introducing a special gang rule in Sweden. Combating gang crime is one of the government's most important issues. During its term of office, the government has tightened up more than 30 criminal laws related to organised crime, including serious violent crimes and serious weapons offences. More crimes than in the past can now be judged as gross when someone alludes to violent capital. Leaders of criminal organisations that do not prevent certain serious crimes within the framework of the association can now be convicted of that. There has also been a provision in the past which means that the penalties should be increased if the offences have been part of organised crime. Just a few weeks ago, the penalties for gross gun crimes and gross illicit handling of explosives were tightened. As a result of these sanctions, persons arrested with, among other things, sharp-charged weapons will in principle always be detained immediately pending trial. We are also working on proposals aimed at strengthening the penalty for murder by increasing the use of life imprisonment, and we have set up an investigation to review the criminal treatment of offenders in the 18 - 20 age group. The criminal protection of police, rescue and ambulance personnel needs to be strengthened, and the so-called Bluelight investigation has therefore, after being put in a fast track, made proposals in this area. Criminal law is one of our tools for tackling organised crime, but not the only one. The Police Authority must be given the opportunity to increase the number of employees and the presence at local level. In the largest police effort in the 2000s, the government is therefore investing just over SEK 9.8 billion in the agency during the period 2017– 2020. The government has also given 12 authorities even greater opportunities to target their common forces against organised crime with a particular focus on vulnerable areas. Since the start of the joint action by the authorities against organised crime in 2009, more than 500 people have been convicted in district courts as a result of the efforts of the initiative. These people have been sentenced to more than 1,500 prison years in total. At the beginning of the year, the government plans to present a proposal for a new camera surveillance team that will make it easier to use camera surveillance for law enforcement and security-building purposes. In addition, the Government has set up an investigation to propose further simplifications for the camera surveillance by law enforcement authorities. The starting point is that the authorisation requirement should be removed and primarily replaced by a notification obligation. This will mean that the police will be able to set up cameras when the need arises without waiting for a permit. But we will never deal with organised crime unless we also pool our efforts to prevent it. In the Government's National Crime Prevention Programme, Together against Crime, we stress the importance of broad crime prevention efforts. It can be about parenthood support, drop-outs and relapse prevention work. It can also be a matter of preventive measures against situations or at places where the risk of crime is high.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-281	Mr President, I would like to We see that the number of vulnerable areas is increasing in Sweden. There are about 200 criminal gangs and 5,000 lifestyle crises. We have a development that unfortunately means that a record number of people are shot to death in Sweden if we compare, for example, with what it was like during the 90s. We're seeing attacks on our officers. We're seeing attacks on ambulance vehicles. We see criminal gangs going to emergency rooms. We see shooting at police homes and attacking police stations. Mr President, I would like to In fact, we have a very serious situation in Sweden, and a number of measures will be required. Many more police employees are needed, and many of them are happy to be police officers. We will have to make a series of penalties and expand our powers. It is very good that, at least in principle, we agree, although we do not agree on the tempo, with regard to the police's possibilities for more camera surveillance. I think we have to realise that we have a number of criminal individuals that we might actually have to describe as directly dangerous to society. Against these individuals, we must now move forward tougher. Of course, we need to ensure that they are prosecuted, but once they are prosecuted, we will also ensure that the penalties are longer. I think it is important that a number of these individuals spend a long time in prison to create opportunities to break this trend. In Denmark, what is known as a gang rule has been introduced, which in practice means that in the case of criminal settlements and crime committed by such individuals, penalties are in practice double. I think it is a measure that we should get in place in Sweden as well. It is clear that there is a certain possibility, which is also suggested in the Minister's interpellation response, that a certain adjustment to the penalty can be made today. But a gang rule, which we are talking about here, provides the opportunity to have double penalties for these criminals, and I still wonder whether the Minister can be open to making such a gang rule, because I think it will be necessary. If the Minister feels like answering, I can also take the opportunity, Mr President, to ask for more measures. I believe that we will have to do more than that. I think we need to look at the search zones, the prohibition of stay and a series of measures that are basically about making it harder to be a criminal in Sweden.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-287	Mr President, I would like to Combating organised crime is the most important task of criminal policy at the moment. About 20 years ago, the first of these gangs established themselves in Sweden, and gang crime has since evolved over time. Of course, you should have suffocated it in the bud already then. Now that it has escalated and there are more, it becomes harder and harder. But that does not mean that it is impossible, on the contrary. It is possible to reverse developments, and we have a number of cases where one can actually point out just that. Södertälje is one such example. There we had great concern a few years ago, where both police resources and resources from the rest of society gathered together, such as the Social Insurance Agency, the Tax Agency, the municipality and others, to get to this type of crime, something that was very successful. In Gothenburg, the number of shootings has halved, also partly as a result of good cooperation. Malmö had a lot of trouble with shootings last year. There they gathered power, and now there are 70 people in custody in Malmö. Of course, it's a way to get these most criminal individuals off the street, because that's something you have to do. The government is now investing more money than any government has done before us, at least for the last 20 years, and is going in with another SEK 2 billion. We double the training rate of police officers and set up more cameras than ever in Husby, Tensta, Rinkeby, the area around Sevedsplan in Malmö, Ronna in Södertälje and Gottsunda in Uppsala. Even in Rosengård, cameras are coming up. We are also taking social action to break the new recruitment, because that is the other side. We must take care of the most criminal individuals and get them off the street, and at the same time we must break the recruitment of young people who are entering criminal gangs. This can be done, among other things, with targeted social efforts, but also by ensuring that they can have a faith in the future. It is clear that when we have broken youth unemployment and it has gone down as much as it has done, the chances of actually breaking new recruitment to the criminal gangs will also be better. Should we go back to old moderate policies with high youth unemployment, it would be much more difficult to prevent crime. We all understand that. We also need to tighten the penalties, and this government has done so. The Moderates often talk about punishment, but you never deliver anything. Nothing ever happens when you rule. It does when we rule. We have tightened the penalties for aggravated robbery, aggravated assault, gross illegal threats, gross coercion, aggravated robbery and the most serious drug offences. All this we did last year, July 1, 2017. On 1 January 2018, we tightened the punishment for the serious weapons crimes. This also means that we receive a detention presumption, which means that if you are found with an illegal weapon in the city and suspected of serious gun crime, you will in principle be detained, and then you will not be released in anticipation of trial. It also opens the door to secret coercive measures for the police, that is to say, interception of those suspected of doing so. We will move on and go forward with penalties for aggravated rape, for those who attack bluelight personnel and for murder, where the life sentence should be the normal punishment. We are also on our way to impose penalties for crimes committed with honorary motives. So one might say that we have tightened the penalties more than any other government has before us. At the same time, however, we must be smart and focus on the crimes committed by these very criminal individuals. I do not rule out the need to make further efforts. Of course we might have to do that. But before you start talking about taking further steps, let's see how the punitive measures that have just been implemented work. We have to break this in many different ways.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-300	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I share the view that this can, of course, be reversed, and it is clear that it is about how much we choose to prioritise this on the part of society. There is, of course, a need for record investments in the entire judiciary now. The Moderates put the greatest effort and have higher ambitions than the current government, and it is clear that this is a tough priority. The government prioritises increased contributions to people who are outside the labour market. It is the really big efforts that the government chooses to make, while we prioritise, for example, the introduction of a grant ceiling. This enables us in our budget to make greater efforts on the police and on the judiciary in general. That's how it's connected. Politics is about prioritising. As for the difference in results, it is clear that we can find individual parts where we could have done more earlier. That's always the case. But the fact is, the number of policemen increased with the Alliance. Punishments were also carried out with the Alliance. Now, however, it is time to look ahead. I know that the Minister for Justice and Home Affairs would like to say that the major social problem is the alliance governments that led Sweden for eight years. But the reality is that we have really tough problems with crime, and a lot of the measures we can agree on. However, I think it is time to realise that the measures now in place under the current government often come after announcements from the Alliance– we have pushed forward many of these changes. Nevertheless, let us be a bit constructive when we have the opportunity in an interpellation debate like this! Why not open up to introducing a gang rule? It would have a proper effect on a number of these criminal individuals, whom I would describe as very, very dangerous. It would also send a very clear signal of what happens when you choose to join criminal gangs and commit this kind of act. These are actions involving victims on the other side who do not get redress. In the affected areas, we now see that people do not dare to testify, and it is tough for the police to work in these areas. I know that the police are standing up and doing everything they can, and I thought it was incredibly interesting to see, above all, the efforts that have been made at Bishopsgården in Gothenburg and that I know the Minister is aware of. But the cops need a little more help. We must know that once we take these criminal individuals, there is proper punishment for them. They must, in fact, be removed from these areas for a long time in order to reverse developments. I would like to ask once again, Mr President: can the government not let go of its prestige now? I know it is the Moderates who have tabled this proposal first, but it does matter less, because it is a proposal that will be needed. Why not look at the experience of Denmark? Why not go ahead and introduce a gang rule so that criminals receive double punishment?
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-309	Mr President, I would like to There is already a gang rule in Swedish law today. That is, you can tighten the penalties for crimes within the framework of organised crime. That possibility already exists. What we have done on the penalty side during this term of office is more than any other government has done as far back as you can imagine. I have listed the penalties which are only six months old: aggravated robbery, aggravated assault, gross illegal threat, gross coercion, the most serious drug offences and so the serious gun crime now from 1 January, which also gives more opportunity to detect those who commit crimes. We will proceed with punishment for aggravated rape and, of course, for those who attack blue-light personnel. It is also a question of punishment for murder and honour crimes. Here, therefore, there is a move forward of the positions overall. What I am also trying to say is that, in addition to criminal law, these gangs must also be tackled in other ways. It is possible to reverse the trend, and I have pointed out a few examples. But basically, the state is always stronger than these gangs, and you just decide that now we take them out, then you will be able to do so. We fundamentally agree that to do this we need more police officers, that is to say more police presence. That is why the government has doubled the rate of education, and the government has given more money to the police than any government has done in the past. It's the biggest investment in 20 years. There are twice as many police officers today as at the time the Moderates ruled. Basically, we do not differ. We are talking about more police officers, more resources for the police sector and more penalties. But it differs in that the Moderates have a blind spot on what it is that starts and constantly underpins development. With very high unemployment in which you can't create jobs, and that's what Mo deratas never do when you're in government – and with high youth unemployment and growing gaps, there's a greater risk that more people will end up in crime. Tomas Tobé is talking about contributions again. But what he's not saying is that if your policy really had an impact it would again mean a development in Sweden towards greatly increased gaps. You squeeze and pull down on those who have the worst position t. Along with an increase in youth unemployment, which you too will never be able to break, this represents a very negative development. In view of what is important to prevent this situation, we differ greatly. You'll never think about that. Mr President, I would like to The police – at least the police officers I have talked to – are usually much wiser than the Moderates in this regard. There is no professional group that I talk to as much as police officers. Those who are in the field in the affected areas often say three things to me, and I heard this said to me only yesterday when I was in Jönköping. The first is that the police need more. The second is that they need better tools. The third is that we must bear in mind that it is not only about them but also about how the surrounding society works. There must be a functioning social service, a functioning school in the area, good and functioning leisure activities and a society that holds together and a belief in the future for the young people we are talking about and who are at risk of falling into other circles. The police understand this, but our concern is that the Moderates have never ever understood this.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-317	Mr President, I would like to Clearly, there is a difference in view of what builds divides in a society. It is clear that the government believes that the gaps are being overcome by higher contributions to people outside the labour market. Grants are intended to reduce gaps. I think that it is better to reduce gaps by getting people into work. There is now a huge challenge of non-functioning integration in this country. People in vulnerable areas are very far from a job and very far from Swedish society. On top of this, these people are subjected to crime, and they do not feel that the judiciary is present. That's what I see when I travel in the country. When I meet the police in the country, they talk a lot about the surrounding society and the responsibilities of other authorities – absolutely! But they are very clear in some areas, namely that we should ensure that we give them properly with muscles, better powers. Furthermore, there should be proper punishment. When the criminals are finally prosecuted, it should not be as short a punishment as it is in Sweden today. In addition to this, I can tell you that the police would like to see a new police management and increased police salaries. But we have discussed this in other contexts. This interpellation debate is specifically about whether the Minister can be open to introducing a gang rule that would entail double penalties. It is correct that there is currently a basis for fine-tuning, but it is a matter of some adjustment. What I am talking about is introducing a gang rule that involves double penalties. I regret, Mr President, that the Minister is closing the door for this.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-322	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that further measures can also be considered on the criminal side. I would just like to point out that this government has done more on the criminal side than any other government has. The former government – the Moderate Government – tried to tighten the penalties. It put forward legislative proposals, including the need for courts to apply the scale of penalties to the higher levels to a greater extent, which was totally rejected by the courts. It wasn't applicable. You tried to tighten the penalties, but you did not even manage to do so, even though it was a priority area. Now the punishments have been tightened up for the very crimes committed by many of the most criminal individuals, such as aggravated robbery, aggravated assault, gross illegal threats, gross blackmail and gross coercion. These are exactly the crimes committed by those individuals. This also applies to serious gun crime. There we have access to secret coercive measures and the presumption of detention, so that they are not released again in anticipation of trial. In order to prevent crime, the most active individuals must also be removed. Otherwise they will remain in the environment and interfere with all preventive work. In addition, they will be a kind of role model for young people who are at risk of entering crime. My point is that if we are to combat gang crime, we must see the whole picture, and then there must be a policy that lowers youth unemployment. We cannot go back to the level of youth unemployment that prevailed during your reign. Now it is the lowest unemployment rate among young people in 13 years of age, and we must continue to keep down the level of unemployment. We need to invest in social services, school and fritis in addition to all that is done in the law enforcement areas. When this is done, the trend can be reversed. It shows all the experience.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-326	Mr President, I would like to Tomas Tobé has asked me whether I intend to work towards introducing a national ban on begging in Sweden. The Political Authority's situation picture of crime associated with vulnerable EU citizens estimated that most of the vulnerable EU citizens begging do so without this being linked to organised crime. There are, however, cases where some who beg are controlled by criminal actors and are victims of crime. It is totally unacceptable that people who are vulnerable due to poverty and discrimination should be exploited or subjected to crime when trying to acquire a livelihood. The government is concerned that people staying temporarily in Sweden will have to beg for their livelihood and that this group lives in unworthy conditions. Unauthorised settlements can also result in extensive litter and affect, among other things, landowners who are allowed to see their land taken up illegally. In the summer of 2015, the government presented a package of measures to combat vulnerability and begging. The measures presented included clearer rules in Sweden, international cooperation and close cooperation with civil society. In 2015, the Government appointed a national coordinator on issues related to vulnerable EU citizens. The County Administrative Board of Stockholm County was commissioned the following year to continue to develop collaboration and coordinate the work carried out in the country regarding the target group. The assignment has now been extended until 2019. Last year, the Government submitted to the Riksdag a bill proposing a new form of special handshake. The new rules on removal, which entered into force on 1 July 2017, make it easier for landowners, among other things, to re-enter their land of residence without authorisation. The government will follow up the authorities' handling of illegal settlements, but there are already indications that the reform has had the intended effect. The Government decided on a legislative referral in December 2017, which means that the penal provision on trafficking in human beings is given a clearer description of the crime, that children are given an even stronger protection and that the minimum penalty for trafficking in human beings, less serious crime, is tightened to prison for six months. In addition, it proposes a completely new crime, human exploitation, which explicitly penalises the exploitation of persons in begging. The proposal provides for stronger criminal protection for those cases where people living in economically difficult conditions are unduly induced to give up what they have been begging for or paying for something that is actually free, such as a place to beg in the public sphere. The proposals are intended to enter into force on 1 July 2018. The Government intends to submit a proposal to the Riksdag by the beginning of March 2018. It is a police task to monitor public order and to intervene, for example, when people appear disorderly or litter. The government is actively working to influence living conditions in the home countries to achieve long-term difference and sustainability, and the government has signed memoranda of understanding with both Romania and Bulgaria. Cooperation has resulted in a very good climate for dialogue and has strengthened bilateral relations. Overall, the government has taken a series of measures to combat vulnerability, to strengthen criminal law against trafficking in human beings and exploitation, and to facilitate action by the police and other authorities against the crime associated with the begging.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-336	Mr President, I would like to We have got a situation with widespread begging in Sweden. The figure may vary, but I think it is about 300 000 very vulnerable people that we see outside our grocery stores or elsewhere in our society. It's people who are in a very tough situation. We Moderates have worked on this issue and landed that we do not think we should normalize begging in Sweden. It is not reasonable, Madam President, to allow people to stand with their hat in hand and ask for money and have this as their livelihood. Exposed people in other countries – their future cannot be about them sitting in streets and squares in Sweden begging. I remember when we Moderates presented the proposal that we should at least ban what is described as the organisation of begging. At that time the Minister's Minister's colleague Åsa Regnér said that I was fishing in cloudy water. I now note that such legislation is on the way. That's excellent. But I think it would be wise if we could settle this issue, because I do not think that the Social Democrats want the situation we have right now with so many vulnerable people in the streets and squares of Sweden either. We also see that other concerns follow in the wake of this. Among other things, the police have told us about increased prostitution. We need to address this issue now. It is difficult, but we will note that Sweden has been too weakly regulated in this area. The measures we have now taken will not be enough to put an end to the begging. This will be necessary, and here I would like to give an opportunity to the Minister, Madam President: put forward a national ban on begging for the Swedish Parliament, and you will have the support of the Moderates. Let us deal with this matter together! I think the Swedish people expect us to do that.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-342	Madam President, I would like First of all, I think Tomas Tobé said that there would be 300 000 very vulnerable people. That must be 3,000, because that is about what we are talking about in terms of numbers – around 3,000. Of course, I share the view that we need to do more to tackle this problem. I note that this is a problem that has existed for a long time and that during their long reign – eight years – the Moderates did nothing to deal with it. It was even so that when we took office, one of the big issues we had to discuss was the large camp in Sorgenfri in Malmö, if Tomas Tobé remembers it. It had been there for many years, and no one had fixed it in any way – at least the moderate-led government. Now it's gone. It was torn down after just a few years. During our period, we have changed the rules on removal and hands-on in the area of private land. I think that was a good change, because although you can allow people to ask for money and beg for money, you can never allow some sort of shantytowns or illegal settlements to emerge in different places. That is, of course, totally unacceptable. There before we had very complicated rules with high fees for landowners and a complicated bureaucratic process. We have now changed that. However, we can also note that the number of cases relating to removals with special handshake has decreased. From 2016 to 2017, these cases decreased by 25 per cent. This may indicate that the overall number of settlements has decreased. It may also indicate that the police now intervene much earlier than just a few years ago to ensure that such settlements are not established. If so, it is a good consequence of the legislation. Now we are moving forward with new legislation and a new law on human exploitation. We come to Parliament with a bill before the bill freeze on 20 March where we extend the legislation further. Here it is, I think, about getting to those who make money and exploit and exploit these people in different ways – for begging but also for other forms of work. There are almost slave labor-like forms where people get to work for 10 kroner an hour and live in a basement. That is, of course, totally unacceptable. This too should be dealt with to a greater extent. The new legislation aims, among other things, to exploit and earn money from the begging of others, such as asking for a share of their income if they are to sit in a certain place. There we are now extending criminal law. It should be borne in mind, however, that some of these leagues can also be accessed within the framework of current legislation, and that is where we see some cases that have already been settled. In one case in Örebro last autumn, two Bulgarian citizens were sentenced each to four years and two months in prison for trafficking in human beings. It was a case in the Gothenburg District Court all along, on January 17, 2018. A couple of cases are coming up in Växjö. Thus, even within the framework of current legislation, people can be convicted of, among other things, trafficking in human beings. With the new legislation, we are extending this further in order to reduce the exploitation and exploitation of people.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-350	Madam President, I would like Is it the way I said 300 000, I would also like to take the opportunity on record to correct it to 3 000? Basically, this is a question that I think is about Sweden having to decide: Should Sweden be open to widespread begging, or should it not? We have also had begging in Sweden before, historically, but we have developed into a welfare country. We want to meet vulnerable people with social work. We do not want people to have to beg on the street for their own livelihood. Now we have a situation in which a number of citizens from Romania and Bulgaria in particular make their decisions and end up in Sweden and begging – quite a few under organised forms. We in the Moderates think it is good that we are now getting a bill that makes it easier to catch those who unscrupulously use these people to make money. But we also know that the evidence is difficult. Not infrequently in the organization, there may even be kinship. It will not be easy to get individuals to even tell about the situation. Unfortunately, I do not believe that the new measures will mean that we do not have widespread begging in Sweden. That's why we need a begging ban. We need to go forward with a measure so that we can push this back properly. It doesn't make sense. I am very concerned about what this does to the vulnerable people who are being exploited twice, as many are forced into prostitution or live under disgusting circumstances, but also to society – that we get used to the fact that there is a vulnerable fellow outside the grocery store, that it is commonplace, that our children may not even react anymore because it is normal that there is a exposed person outside a grocery store. I think we all find this difficult. Of course, you have to decide for yourself whether you want to give money or not. I think there is some hypocrisy on the part of the government. The government even says: Don't give money to the beggars! The government has stated that. It's a personal perception. You have to decide for yourself what you want to do. It is a good thing that we are able to find measures much more quickly to prevent us from having tent camps that can almost be described as the beginning of shantytowns; that is excellent. All these measures are, of course, about us not wanting people to beg in our streets and squares in Sweden. But they will not be enough. I note that the Minister did not dismiss the idea of a begging ban but talked about the other measures. Well, that's a good thing-- those are actually good measures. I therefore ask the question again: does the Minister exclude that we also need to go forward with a national begging ban in Sweden?
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-360	Madam President, I would like We have chosen the way to extend the rules in order to remove the camps that exist. When we took office in 2014, we had, among other things, a large camp in Sorgenfri in Malmö; we no longer have that. We had rules that were bureaucratic, complicated and costly for the landowner when it comes to handrails for removals. Now we no longer have that either; we have also reformed that. We have even seen a decrease in the number of cases, which may indicate that we no longer have the emergence of settlements that we had during the bourgeois period; the measure has actually had an effect. Then there is the issue of human trafficking. I pointed out that we already have the opportunity today to judge those who exploit poor people in this way. I pointed out the verdict of the Örebro District Court: two Bulgarian citizens each received four years and two months in prison for trafficking in human beings because several people had been used for begging. The Gothenburg District Court sentenced a Bulgarian citizen to prison the other day for three years and six months – it's quite severe punishment we're talking about – for human trafficking and for using two people for begging purposes. In December last year two Bulgarian men were also convicted by Göta hovrätt; it was Växjö. They were convicted of aggravated assault and kidnapping and received five and four years and six months respectively. Those crimes had been committed against a man from Bulgaria who had been used for begging. At the moment, another preliminary investigation is under way in Växjö with, I believe, five prisoners. The judiciary has therefore now begun to crack down on those who exploit people who are in a very difficult situation. This is something we have not seen in previous years, but only recently. That is a good thing, because it also means sending a signal to the outside world: we do not accept engaging in this type of organisation and hence the exploitation of poor people. I believe that this, on which Tomas Tobé is concerned, is basically about the Moderates having difficulty seeing poverty. Tobé said it's hard to see this – that's the basic problem. We Social Democrats, who in all times have done almost nothing but fight poverty, have no difficulty in seeing it when it arises. Our main problem is to reduce the gaps and make it better for the most deprived. That is why we are seeing this. But when the Moderates are going to argue about this, it's above all about that it's hard and hard to see. My starting point is that we must ensure that we combat the crimes that occur in this context. But I also think that when we talk about these people, we should start from a sense of solidarity and empathy, so that we do not fall into a rhetoric that points out and stigmatises these people as much as I sometimes think happens in the debate. It is a matter of addressing this in a number of ways. There are countries that have national begging bans, but there are actually not very many of them. In the large countries – Germany, France, Spain and Italy – there are no national bans. In the Nordic countries, only Denmark has it. In Norway, local bans are possible, but they do not exist in Oslo, for example. It is therefore not the main solution for most countries.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-368	Madam President, I would like The prejudices of the Minister of Justice and Home Affairs about Moderates do not even seem to me to deserve an answer. For me, this is about the fact that we have very vulnerable people who are also being exploited twice. I am concerned about what this is also doing for society – that we normalise the fact that people are begging in our streets and squares. I come to the conclusion that we will need a ban, because Sweden stands out in Europe. Yes, there are different solutions. In Finland, for example, I know that the police, without a ban, are working quite effectively to reduce begging, in a completely different way than we have seen in Sweden. Many other countries have regulation at either local, regional or national level – virtually. But you have to ask yourself what makes Sweden so attractive. Why do we have such a widespread begging in Sweden? Of course, some are about us being a country of prosperity, but there are many countries of prosperity in Europe. I think it is a question of too weak legislation. If we do not get a ban on the ground, this will continue year after year. It is good if we can get to some of the unscrupulous free people who exploit vulnerable people, but we will, I believe, have to go forward with this legislation. We have offered the Social Democrats and also the government an opportunity to obtain political support for such regulation. I note, Madam President, that the Minister is doing everything he can not to admit that you are not ruling out a begging ban. You too seem to realise that it will need to be put in place, just as your own coordinator in this area has arrived at.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-373	Madam President, I would like When Tomas Tobé says that Sweden stands out, I wonder what he really means. The model of a national ban that Tomas Tobé wants is not something that European countries generally have. I said it at the end of my last speech: neither Finland, Norway, Germany, France, Spain nor Italy have a national ban. Local bans are available in some places. Norway is such a country. But of those, I think, 422 municipalities in Norway, a scarce handful have local bans. A municipality that has no ban is the capital Oslo. So trying to create a picture that such a national begging ban as the Moderates want is something that is common in Europe is not correct. We have been working on this issue since we took office, in a way that the moderate-led government did not do. When we took office, we had a development with emerging, large camps, and nothing was done about it. They had to stand there year after year. I mentioned Sorgenfri in Malmö – that camp is no longer there. We implemented the new removal legislation a few years ago, which I believe may have led to fewer cases now. There was a reduction of 25 per cent from 2016 to 2017, which may well mean that we have fewer settlements than we had before and that the police intervene against them earlier. We are now moving forward with the strengthened legislation, which allows us to get to those who exploit and exploit these people. This, Madam President, seems to me to be very effective.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-378	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! Sofia Damm has asked me what results I think Sweden has achieved with the structured political dialogue with Iran, what the dialogue with the Iranian regime looks like since the protests against it broke out in the country and whether I intend to publicly condemn the Iranian regime's actions against those who are now rising to protest against repression. Markus Wiechel has asked why I and the government are so passive about the protests that are taking place in Iran at the moment, if I think it is wrong to support the freedom fighters in the country, if I am sure that the Swedish approach towards Iran does not strain the repression of the Iranian people, how I and the Swedish Government stand up for women's fundamental rights and rights and how the government supports the courageous women who proudly defy the veiling of the country. Furthermore, Markus Wiechel has asked how I and the government intend to work to strengthen the freedom and democracy of Iranians in the country and how the government's current relations with the Iranian regime look and whether I and the government consider it reasonable to legitimise the image given by Iran's allies, such as Vladimir Putin's Russia or Bashar al-Assad's Syria, or whether the government intends to give Iran's oppositional the opportunity to make its voices heard. I choose to respond to these two interpellations in one context. The government has closely followed the alarming developments in Iran, including through the Swedish Embassy in Tehran. Human rights, including freedom of expression and the right to demonstrate, must be respected. The actions of the Iranian authorities, including mass arrests and restrictions on the Internet, are therefore deeply worrying. I have made it clear on several occasions that the violence directed against peaceful demonstrators is unacceptable and that further violence must be avoided, something that Sweden was among the first to express publicly. Sweden also made this point in the UN Security Council on 5 January. The EU made a joint statement with the same clear meaning on 2 January. The human rights situation in Iran is serious. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs' report on human rights, democracy and the rule of law in Iran from 2017 describes in detail the problems that exist. The Government is deeply concerned about the human rights situation in Iran, including the use of the death penalty, repression of women and girls, and lack of trade union rights. No girl or woman should be forced to dress in a way that she does not want. Questions about the protection and respect of human rights are central to Sweden's relationship with Iran. The government continues to address and try to influence the human rights situation in Iran. We are working on these issues continuously in the UN, through the EU and in our bilateral contacts with Iranian representatives. So far, two dialogues have been conducted between the Cabinet Secretary and her Iranian counterpart. Swedish messages have been expressed at the meetings, including on human rights, regional development and bilateral issues. The structured political dialogue with Iran is part of this work. The aim of the dialogue is to discuss at ministerial or state secretarial level important bilateral issues, where human rights are obviously a key element. The government will continue to actively pursue human rights issues in Iran in all the forums at our disposal.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-384	Madam President, I would like Exactly a year ago, an interpellation debate was held in this House on the same theme as today, Sweden's relationship with Iran. The reason I initiated that debate was that the trade sanctions against Iran had been lifted, and at the very least there had been shuttle traffic between the Swedish Government Office and the Tehran regime. Minister for Enterprise Mikael Damberg, Minister for Energy Ibrahim Baylan, Minister for Health Ga briel Wikström and Cabinet Secretary Annika Söder had all been able to visit Iran in quite a short time. Shortly after our debate, the new relationship was to be crowned with Prime Minister Stefan Lövven's journey to Tehran to meet President Hassan Rohani. Sweden had initiated a so-called structured political dialogue with Iran, and I wanted to know why the feminist government had such a high priority in relation to one of the most anti-woman regimes in the world. I wanted to know what we were hoping to get out of such a partnership. I wanted to know whether Sweden would seek consultation with opposition groups in Iran during the dialogue. I wanted to know whether to address exiles here in Sweden who are fighting for human rights and can never speak to the Iranian regime themselves. I wanted to make sure that the structured political dialogue would not replace public criticism. The Foreign Minister did not give any concrete answers. My hope is that things will be different today. It has been a year and it is perfectly reasonable to evaluate the results of the structured political dialogue. Since the end of December, we have seen the biggest protests in Iran for a very long time. Initially, the demonstrations concerned living conditions in the country and a deterioration of the economic situation. One could imagine that, as sanctions against the country were lifted and major trade agreements were concluded, economic improvements would also benefit the population. But let us remind ourselves that the Iranian regime has very great ambitions of power in the region. It is expensive to keep terror organizations like Hamas and Hizbollah under their arms. The war in Yemen costs money, as does support for Asad in Syria and for Iraq's Shia Muslim government. But the protests we have seen are also about something else, about a desire for freedom from oppression. We have seen women throwing off the veil in protest. However, instead of responding to the protests of reform, the Iranian regime, as we all know, chose to brutally suppress the demonstrations, so much so that many people have also died. It is about people who have taken courage and stood up to oppression. The people who now stand up to repression are not only faced with the brutal violence of the regime. They are also met by the restless statements of the outside world. I would like to remind you of what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in the debate a year ago: We have a tradition of being clear about democracy and human rights. This will permeate our dialogue, regardless of the form of the meeting. ..................................................... Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that Sweden has shown a clear line towards the regime that has so brutally beaten the people who have now gone out on the streets to stand up to injustice and oppression? Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that Sweden has shown clear support for the courageous women and men who demonstrate for freedom and democracy in Iran?
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-394	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking the Foreign Minister for his reply to the interpellation, although I believe that many of the questions have not been answered. The massive protests in Iran began on 28 December last year. They spread rapidly throughout the country. I am convinced that there are many of us who have followed this on social media such as Twitter and so on. But there are certainly also many of us who are impressed by the courage shown by the Iranian people and the strength they have. They are prepared to sacrifice everything – career, life and health – to say their part about the brutal dictatorship. We know today that thousands of people have been arrested by the regime and that many have been killed or injured. At the same time as this happened, it was almost crazy silence on the part of the Swedish Government. Only on 31 December did the Foreign Minister write a tweet: Following the demonstrations in Iran. It is important to avoid further violence. Freedom of assembly is a fundamental human right. What I wonder is whether this is the only thing the Foreign Minister or the government has to say when this happens. It was almost crazy quiet from the government and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, and to this day it is relatively quiet from there. Madam President, I would like This action, or rather this lack of action, is indicative of the inconsistency which unfortunately characterises Swedish foreign policy today. Various statements have made one really wonder what the government thinks about these issues. There has recently been pressure to speak out somewhat critically against the regime, but the fact that it did not come directly from the government, but from outside pressure, is shameful. Similarly, it is worrying that government representatives are running the affairs of Iran and its allies, constantly focusing on the fact that the protests are mainly about the economic conditions in the country. This could almost be seen as an indirect attack on sanctions against Iran. I wonder if that is why the masses in Iran are chanting: Down with Khamenei! Down with Rohani! Down with the dictatorship! I don't think so. I am convinced that this is not the case. Madam President, I would like In an interview, the Foreign Minister said: What if other countries say that demonstrators in our streets are right? That's an amazing quote. It stands between freedom-seeking citizens and a brutal dictatorship. Why should it be so difficult for representatives of the self-proclaimed humanist superpower to actually give the Iranian people their clear support? It is about us supporting their self-evident right to fundamental human rights. The demonstrations in Iran are very disorganized. Moreover, the regime has threatened to completely crush the protests if they continue. We already know that people are being imprisoned, killed, arrested and at risk of health. We can look back to 2009 and the latest protests. Then they too were brutally beaten down. Today, there is little support within the Iranian community for these protests. That is precisely why it is particularly important that there should be external, external, political and international support for the demonstrators. In 2009, Iran's ambassador was called up to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs in Sweden. It has not happened today, and it is not intended to do so. Madam President, I would like There's a lot more I want to say. I'll have to get back to you.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-406	Madam President, I would like I have been very clear in my criticism of how Iran has responded to these demonstrations. I was the first EU Foreign Ministers to speak at all. I have repeatedly condemned the violence that has been used – in interviews and in statements. I expressed early and publicly that it is unacceptable for violence against peaceful demonstrators to be used and that it must stop. No one can doubt where the Swedish Government stands on this issue. Sweden is also one of two countries that have reported on the human rights, democracy and rule of law situation in Iran. Our criticism has been heard and noted in Iran. In addition, we have expressed our views directly to Iranian representatives, both in Stockholm and in Tehran. And we continue to be clear about our views on this issue. It is particularly important that those responsible for this violence should be held accountable and that persons detained during the demonstrations should be treated fairly in accordance with the principles of the rule of law. The answer to Sofia Damm's questions is yes. We have no other point of view than the one you put forward in terms of how we allow ourselves to be impressed by the courage of the people who openly protest and who do so even though they know that there is a risk of violence being used by the regime. It is clear that it is very important to maintain a dialogue. When we are criticised for this, I often think: What is the alternative? It was many years of isolation. It did not improve the situation in the country. It is incredibly important that we also make sure, on the basis of the core agreement, that we can express this criticism directly. It is also important to listen to all the Iranians who live in Sweden, who have much to learn and who have many views on the way forward for their country of origin. Of course we must continue to see what is happening. We know that fundamentalist forces are contrary to the more reformist forces in Iran. That is why it is important how we balance and how we use all these contacts, so that we actually help those who want to reform and who want to take steps forward. But we share the frustration of the lack of progress. Not even in a year do we believe that we will be able to bring about all the necessary changes in Iran. It's gonna take time. But this is how we must move forward – by supporting those who dare to stand up and express their views and by upholding the principles of democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law. I do not see that the alternative would be to say: now let's close these contacts. We should not be involved in dialogue. I think this is the way forward. The authorities and the government must also show to ordinary people that the situation in which the country finds itself and the lifting of many of the sanctions are beneficial. People must benefit everywhere, and this must be done in the form of human rights.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-414	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. I do not agree, however. I do not think the Foreign Minister has been clear enough. The Secretary of State called a press conference. It was not to condemn the regime or to really stand up for those who are fighting against oppression, but to say that it was unacceptable and it is closely following developments. I think it could have been far more powerful than that. The High Representative of the EU and also the Minister for Foreign Affairs have stated that all parties should refrain from violence. I do not think it is a powerful stand-up for what is right, and I do not think it is clear. Not being able to condemn the use of violence by the Iranian regime is not clear. To make a comparison with what it would be like if other countries were to interfere in demonstrations in Sweden is not to be clear. To oppose the inclusion of Iran on the agenda of the UN Security Council is also not to be very clear. It is not just this action that is unclear. In fact, I think that the whole structured political dialogue has been rather unclear. I understand that it was difficult to give me answers a year ago when I was mainly concerned. But it's been a year. I find it a little difficult to see what the key issues have been, which we have been able to discuss through the structured dialogue. A year ago, the Minister for Foreign Affairs replied: The purpose of the structured dialogue is to be able to discuss bilateral issues at ministerial or state secretarial level in a comprehensive way to complement the contacts already taking place. The difference compared to bilateral meetings – what political language it suddenly became – is therefore primarily that these meetings should take place repeatedly and in a more structured way follow up on key issues. This is what I'm talking about. There is this dialogue. It should be structured, and you should be able to follow developments in matters. Then one must have a clear objective and know what the key issues and messages are. In her reply, Margot Wallström says: It is obvious that we are bringing forward the Swedish messages. What are the Swedish messages? Has the development that we have seen in Iran had any impact on the dialogue? Regional development was mentioned. This is a development that Iran is keen to take note of. How do we feel that we can work together precisely with regard to Iran's ambitions for power in the region? Again, Sweden has not concluded an agreement with any country. It is an agreement with a country which prioritises war over freedom for its own population and which displaces the most basic rights and freedoms of its own people. I want us to try to be a little more clear about what the central issues are, about which Sweden actually has continuous cooperation.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-424	Madam President, I would like I agree with Sofia Damm. I really do not think that the Swedish Government has been clear. Furthermore, the position of the demonstrators has not been clear. When the United States proposed that this should be included in the UN Security Council – we can take that as an example – Sweden was against. It's very strange. It is not against raising some other issues for the Minister and for Sweden very important issues in the Security Council. We can take the example of the U.S., for 22 years, announced the move of its embassy to Jerusalem. It was obviously very important to be able to bring it up in the Security Council. But it is not important when there are massive popular protests in Iran. It's very strange, I'd say. When we look at the so-called feminist foreign policy, we also see a strange action on the part of the government. There are women who proudly defy the veil, including a woman who made herself known for this and who has become a symbol of the protests. She is a strong woman, whom I fully respect and look up to. She took off her veil. It's now said she's under arrest. I'm sure there are several other similar stories that we haven't heard of. At the same time as this is happening, the government is silent about the widespread oppression of women in this country. Instead, as I mentioned earlier, much has been focused on raising the socio-economic situation in the country, such as unemployment, and on the fact that the protests began with a protest against the economy. Sure-- that's also part of the protests. But if you now want to be a feminist government, I may find it very strange that you do not say more about the widespread oppression of women. I would like to return to the quote from Mrs Wallström that I mentioned earlier, which was indirectly a statement that it would not support the protestors in Iran – that was at least how I and many others interpreted it. Suppose that Sweden was a brutal Muslim theocracy and was ruled by a regime that oppressed people on the basis of their political opinion or religious beliefs or that they were homosexuals and for these reasons hung people from cranes. Suppose that Sweden was ruled by a regime that would force women to wear a veil and submit to men. Would the Foreign Minister not then wish the outside world to go out loud and clear and declare that it felt that this was wrong? Or is it the case that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is satisfied with the talks that have taken place with the regime? Given how long a dialogue has been held with this regime, it does not seem to have produced any positive results. As regards the question of calling the ambassador to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, this happened in 2009. This government has done so too, including with Turkey's ambassador. Why can't we do that now with the Iranian ambassador? Why is this not important enough for Iran's ambassador to be called and clearly indicated, in favour of both the exiles and Iranians on the ground, who are now proudly protesting against the brutal regime?
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-433	Madam President, I would like I'm so glad I can sort some things out! Firstly, it is not the case that we have opposed the inclusion of this in the Security Council. It is precisely the opposite – we think it is important to use the Security Council and do so in the various formats that the Security Council has to really benefit the pro-reform forces. It should not happen in a way that makes this something that strikes back, but it should be done in the right way. I have never said that this would not be included in the Security Council. On the other hand, we have been discussing how to achieve the best results and to ensure that the Security Council is able to forcefully mark against violence and condemn it, while still supporting those who want to change Iran in the right direction, rather than just having a veto that makes it impossible to continue discussing this in the Security Council. I have never said that this should not be included in the Security Council. Instead, it was largely about how we should do it so that, as usual, we would have a good result and a strong mark from the Security Council. Secondly, I have condemned the violence. I've done it in interviews, and I keep doing it. I think it's sometimes about what's the alternative. It is clear that the human rights situation in Iran is very serious. As few countries have described this and stated it. Of course, both here in Stockholm and in Tehran we have spoken directly to the representatives. The ambassador has also been to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs here in Stockholm. It is clear that we are making sure to make these comments directly to all those responsible. Ethnic and religious minorities, oppositional and trade union representatives are all very vulnerable. The government has been very clear on these issues. Our report describes in detail the serious shortcomings that we see. In the dialogue, this is precisely so that we can point out these shortcomings. As you know, we have a very good basis in Parliament with these reports. In order for us to be able to raise these reports and to speak directly to them and express our views, we need to have a structured dialogue. Or is the alternative to saying we shouldn't have it? Then how do you think we're going to succeed? We believe that it is through exchange and commitment combined with clear messages that we can contribute to positive development. At the same time, we must not be naive, but we must be realistic as to how much we can achieve in one year with regard to a regime that has had this leadership for so long. We also need to engage in dialogue with countries with which we do not agree in all respects. It is against this background that engagement with Iran should be seen. Government policy, including human rights policy, is a part of all issues and permeates political dialogue with Iran. This is also expressed in the joint statement signed by Secretary of State Zarif and I in June 2016 initiating this dialogue. It includes human rights as a specific issue, in line with the government's priorities. Otherwise, we are trying to find practical ways forward where we can work together and where we can work together, given the restrictions that exist. The clarity has been there, although everyone – perhaps for political reasons – does not want to register this. This is the government's policy, and I am happy to repeat it here in Parliament today.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-446	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs Wallström, for this important debate. Nevertheless, I believe that we need some honesty in the debate. Surely the world has been surprisingly quiet about the situation in Iran? This is of a sensitive nature, and I realise that there are many difficulties in having dialogue and transparency, trade agreements and nuclear agreements with a regime like Iran, because it is not just any country. I don't want us to close the door. I want dialogue. But I want to make sure that the dialogue is not held for appearances, but because it benefits the people who are suffering from the terrible repression in Iran. The Foreign Minister has spoken about the EU and the UN and how important this is. I think it was a long time before Mr Mogherini spoke about the protests, and that was a vague statement when it came. It doesn't matter how many times you read it – you can't interpret it in any other way. It was moderate in its criticism and almost equated protestors' demands for freedom with the oppressive regime. As far as the Security Council is concerned, it is not clear to say no to an initiative that is coming anyway, although it might have wished there were other ways. I think it would have been an important symbolic sign that this is so important that we do not say no when such an initiative comes. The protests were initially difficult to grasp, and sometimes one can have a cautious attitude, but I think it is shameful, to say the least, when the outside world is so moderate in its criticism and shows such evasiveness in its condemnation. I do not think that the nuclear agreement or any trade agreement in the world justifies the policy of this curved back on the Tehran regime, and I hope that this will change.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-453	Madam President, I would like I too would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for this important debate. Of course, having a dialogue with the regime in Iran is very important. I fully support this – it is clear that you should have it. The question, however, is what results have been obtained from the dialogue that has been held. I do not see that it has produced any results. What you see now is that nothing really happens on that front. That is precisely why it is particularly important, in my opinion, to mark in favour of the courageous demonstrators in Iran but also to point out to the regime that this is not something that the outside world and Sweden tolerates, that it is not something that we in the free world tolerate. In his reply, the Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned that the Cabinet Secretary has met his Iranian counterpart on two occasions. What other talks have been held between Iran and Sweden? Has the Minister of Foreign Affairs met with someone from the Iranian regime, such as his counterpart, or had any talks? It is a little unclear what dialogue is being conducted, which is also one reason why I think it is quite important to call Iran's ambassador to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. I can compare this behaviour with what it looked like earlier, during the Arab spring. Now the two events differ quite considerably, because in the Arab spring it was not the same groups that protested as now in Iran. However, the then foreign policy spokesperson of the Social Democrats stressed the importance of the EU having to put its foot down in support of the demonstrators and, not least, to highlight women, who had a hard time as they were an important part of the struggle for freedom. Is this something that the Minister for Foreign Affairs would support also with regard to Iran?
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-459	Madam President, I would like Thank you, both Sofia Damm and Markus Wiechel, for the debate and for the time being for me to explain! In this respect, it has been presented and interpreted in so many different ways that it is good that I should say that I was the first foreign minister in the European Union to say something, protesting against violence, who said that this is totally unacceptable. I believe that there was a staunch attitude in many countries. Sofia Damm is right about that. They waited a while because they wanted to see what kind of demonstrators they were. It wanted to see how the demonstrators were treated and to wait to assess how they should be dealt with. There was such doubt. We also pushed on in the European circle to make a statement, because we get more power when we speak together in the European Union. It is very important, not least with the role that the EU has played in the core agreement. We regularly raise individual cases of human rights violations with Iran through the EU and bilaterally. Through our embassy in Tehran, we are taking part in joint EU démarches against the Iranian Foreign Ministry and the judiciary. The death penalty is a particular priority in this work. However, we have also raised cases where trade union representatives have been imprisoned for their activities. This is something we are trying to do repeatedly. What is the best approach is assessed on a case-by-case basis. No, we did not say no to bringing this up in the UN Security Council, but we wanted it to produce results. We wanted it to be a strong and clear mark that we could all support. That was our interest. I continue to condemn the violence against innocent demonstrators and admire the courage of those demonstrating.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-465	Madam President, I would like Lotta Johnsson Fornarve has asked me in what way I believe that Sweden should act to reduce the spread of nuclear weapons in the world, if I believe that Sweden's possible purchase of Patriot is consistent with Sweden's rejection of nuclear weapons and if it is my opinion that Sweden should follow the Seventh AP Fund and blacklist companies that are nuclear weapons producers. Sweden has a long tradition of great commitment to disarmament and non-proliferation. The NPT is a cornerstone of a safer world and the basis for nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament. Sweden was the leader in the negotiations leading up to the Treaty. By 2020, the NPT will be 50 years old and a review conference will take place. It is essential for this to be successful, including through concrete progress in the implementation of nuclear disarmament commitments. Sweden will actively contribute to NPT work in the coming years. Sweden voted in favour of the Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons at the end of the negotiations. At the same time, Sweden emphasised in a national explanation of vote that the text did not satisfy Swedish wishes in several respects. The Government has therefore set up an investigation to analyse the consequences of Swedish access to the Convention. The report will present its conclusions by 31 October 2018. In the 2018 Budget Bill, the Government proposed that the Riksdag authorise the Government to decide on the acquisition of a new medium-sized anti-aircraft system. The Riksdag decided in accordance with the Government's proposal but also stated that an anchoring should take place in the Riksdag. On 7 November last year, the Government commissioned the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration to send a tender request to the competent authority of the United States and open negotiations for the acquisition of the Patriot air defense system. The Swedish Armed Forces, which are recipients of an anti-aircraft system, have been very clear that Patriot is the system that best meets the Authority's requirements. The manufacturer Raytheon is one of the world's largest defence equipment companies and manufactures a variety of systems. Patriot is not a nuclear weapon-bearing system. There is a very limited number of suppliers of qualified anti-aircraft systems. Sweden has chosen to negotiate with the U.S. Armed Forces to possibly purchase Patriot, which is produced by Raytheon, as there is a need for a modern anti-aircraft in Sweden and the Swedish Armed Forces have assessed that Patriot is the system that best meets the operational requirements. For a long time, Sweden has had extensive defence and security policy cooperation with the United States. In June 2016, a joint letter of intent, a Statement of Intent, was signed. Transatlantic cooperation remains fundamental to both American and European security. The security situation in Sweden's immediate area has deteriorated in recent years. From a European perspective, it is important that the United States continues to be involved in Europe. Many regional and global challenges can only be met if Europe and the US act together.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-470	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Defense, for the answer to my interpellation! For decades, Sweden has played a very active role in the fight for peace and disarmament, especially in the decommissioning of weapons of mass destruction. We have also said that we are in favour of a ban on nuclear weapons, as the Minister for Defence says in his reply. Through the Non-Proliferation Treaty, nuclear weapons countries have committed themselves to contributing to the work of total nuclear disarmament. Despite the disarmament promises, nuclear states have retained a large part of their nuclear weapons and instead started to modernise them. This obvious disregard from the nuclear states, combined with the growing awareness of the unimaginable humanitarian consequences, has helped to push for a ban on nuclear weapons, which I hope Sweden will sign, i.e. the UN Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. In fact, something else would be rather shameful. In view of recent developments with direct threats from both North Korea and the United States to the use of nuclear weapons, it is particularly important that Sweden, as an alliance-free state, acts with all its means and force to reduce the proliferation of nuclear weapons – weapons of mass destruction which, if used, have the opportunity to kill millions of people. Nuclear weapons have been used twice in war, on August 6, 1945, in Hiroshima and three days later in Nagasaki, with devastating consequences that we need to recall. It has been a while since Hiroshima and Nagasaki were destroyed and 340 000 people were killed. But we can still see the traces of the terrible disasters, including the fact that thousands of people are still being cared for at the Red Cross hospital in Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Compared to the 1940s nuclear weapons, today's nuclear weapons are much more powerful, often hundreds or thousands of times more powerful. The world and Sweden must do their utmost to abolish once and for all these terrible weapons which an overwhelming majority of the world's population does not want. Against this background, it is regrettable that the government has initiated a process to acquire a new anti-aircraft system, Patriot, from the American company Raytheon, which is one of the key players in American nuclear weapons production. The Left Party believes that Sweden needs to acquire a new modern anti-aircraft, and we are not opposed to Sweden buying it in. However, we are critical that the government plans to do business with a company that is a key player in nuclear weapons production and thus indirectly contributes to the proliferation of nuclear weapons and nuclear weapons production.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-479	Madam President, I would like We agree that we should find different ways of achieving nuclear disarmament. Sweden sees the Non-Proliferation Treaty, the NPT, as the main way to achieve this, especially because the nuclear powers are included in the agreement. However, we note that insufficient progress is being made. Out of this frustration, the idea of seeing if there are other ways and other types of resolutions has emerged. It is about seriously testing whether there are other ways to achieve the goal of a nuclear-free world. With regard to the ban on nuclear weapons which is being referred to as a resolution, Sweden indicated in its explanation of vote on 7 July that we want a clear statement that it is the existing NPT, which is the cornerstone of the international work on nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. We also indicated that we want a proper verification mechanism for the countries that accede to the agreement and also clearer wordings on what this ban is really about. That is why we have set up an investigation to look at the consequences and how we should look at a final position and whether this is an effective method. Let me point out that in this context it is also a question of looking at our military cooperation with other countries. The government is in no way prepared to jeopardise Sweden's security, and we want to pursue the defence-policy cooperation that is in our national interest. We will come back to the question of how to deal with the resolution when the investigation is completed, and it will be presented in October this year. In the case of anti-aircraft systems, the general pension funds are government authorities, but the funds are governed only by law. The board of the respective fund is responsible for the management of the funds, and the government's control of the AP funds is limited to the right to appoint board members and evaluate the administration afterwards in a letter submitted to the Riksdag. The government lacks the ability to control investment operations and to express its views on individual investment decisions. The Government does not take a position on AP Funds' investment strategies. There is nothing on the part of the state that regulates or restricts the possibility of buying weapons systems or doing other types of business with companies that are also connected to nuclear power or, by extension, nuclear weapons. Let me remind you that on the list referred to are companies such as Boeing, Airbus and Lockheed Martin. There are also BAE Systems with operations in Hägglunds in Örnsköldsvik and in Bofors in Karlskoga. An interesting question to consider is: Should we stop doing business with Bofors in Karlskoga or Hägglunds in Örnsköldsvik? It is possible to draw this kind of question very far, and it ends up being very wrong. We have assessed which anti-aircraft system will best benefit our interests. The Swedish Armed Forces have carried out a very thorough investigation of this, and it clearly shows that Patriot is the system that best meets our conditions.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-489	Madam President, the Minister for Defence. It is true that the Non-Proliferation Treaty is an important agreement, but because the nuclear countries have not complied with the agreement but have been flouting and instead started to modernise their nuclear weapons, we must find other ways. Then this UN Convention is very important, and I believe that Sweden should sign it. We must also try to find other ways and ways of pushing for nuclear disarmament, especially now that we see that there are countries seriously threatening to use nuclear weapons. One of the government's own pension funds, the Seventh AP Fund, has Raytheon on its blacklist because the company produces nuclear weapons. It is precisely this nuclear link that is important to discuss. It is strange that the government does not see that there is a problem dealing with this company. It is not only the Seventh AP Fund that has this company on its blacklist. Even the commercial banks Swedbank and Handelsbanken have with Raytheon on their list of companies that they do not do business with because they produce nuclear weapons. In addition, the largest pension fund in Holland and Europe, ABP, which has a large number of shares in Raytheon, has decided to stop investing in nuclear weapons. So this is growing more and more. I am aware that Patriot is not a nuclear weapon-bearing system, as the Minister for Defence points out, but trading with a company that is a leading nuclear weapon producer means indirect support for nuclear weapons production. For example, in August 2017, Raytheon, together with another company, was commissioned to develop a new cruise missile capable of carrying nuclear weapons. They're up to 1,000 missiles. High-ranking spokespersons of the U.S. Air Force have stated that the project is crucial to the U.S.'s deterrence capability. The company is also involved in a series of nuclear-related peripheral systems. I do not share the Minister for Defence's analysis of the importance of cooperation with NATO and the United States. I believe that Sweden should stand up for its freedom of alliance seriously. It is an alliance freedom that has served us well and is now in danger of being eroded by the increasingly close cooperation with NATO and the United States. I believe that Sweden should do its utmost to reduce the proliferation of nuclear weapons and look for another supplier of anti-aircraft. There are others. I do not question, as I said, that Sweden is buying in a new anti-aircraft system, because it is needed. What we have today is too old and outdated. But we must refrain from doing business with companies that produce nuclear weapons. We must increase the pressure on the nuclear countries so that they take their responsibilities and live seriously up to their nuclear disarmament promises. We must use all possible means to reduce the proliferation of nuclear weapons, and one way could be to follow the 7th AP Fund with several decisions to stop trading with companies that produce nuclear weapons.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-498	Madam President, I would like Then I want to know if the Left Party is prepared to ultimately take the consequence of this reasoning and say that the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish State should not have any business with BAE Systems, which means no business with Hägglunds in Örnsköldsvik and with Bofors in Karlskoga. You have to give an answer to whether that is what you mean. If so, there will be a reduction in employment, development and skills. I will not go into detail about what various companies produce that may be related to nuclear weapons. There can be many different things and components in this. These may be things that have been developed for a completely different purpose and that jacket into this type of production. On the list I mentioned is also Rolls Royce. Aren't we supposed to be dealing with them? It should be clear that many Swedish companies cooperate with these companies and are subcontractors to them, and these companies can also be subcontractors to Swedish companies. It is therefore a complex relationship with many different types of relationships. When it comes to taking the initiative against nuclear weapons, we have sought new ways, and that is why, among other things, the resolution against nuclear weapons bans came into play. This is also why we are testing whether it is related to Swedish interests. But we need to get a good look at the cards so that we really know what we are doing and stand on the ground before we ratify anything. I think it is a little early than to take a final position on this. We agree that too little has happened in the framework of the NPT and the work there, but we have a major review conference planned for 2020 in the framework of the NPT. The nuclear powers are also part of the agreement and become involved in the conference, and if we are to see real results, the work must be done there in terms of how disarmament is to be done and that it takes place in such a way that it is perceived as both mutual and balanced. There is scope for taking different types of initiatives. We therefore agree on the objective, but we must also be able to discuss different types of funds from time to time. We will have to come back to the nuclear ban resolution in October when we have the investigation, so that we have solid and proper material to consider. If we were to go straight on this, we would probably be able to see, as far as the companies we can deal with are concerned, considerable problems within the Swedish Armed Forces as well. These are not simple questions. There are many and complex links that need to be realistic about how to sort things out. With regard to the evaluation made by the Swedish Armed Forces of the choice of anti-aircraft systems, I believe that there are strong and good reasons for the fact that this is currently the best and most effective system for Swedish defence forces and conditions.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-506	Madam President, I would like There are shared views on Patriot's excellence, the Minister for Defence. There has been a great deal of criticism of the system, and it has also proved to be quite expensive. So there is reason to discuss this in the future. What I object to is that we are buying a system from a leading nuclear weapon producer, that is, a key producer of nuclear weapons. That is what the question is about. I think that we really should be restrictive when dealing with this type of company, because it will indirectly contribute to the proliferation of nuclear weapons and nuclear weapons production. Instead, I believe that we should do our utmost to remove weapons of mass destruction. Then one way of doing so may be not to trade in companies that produce nuclear weapons. Thank you for the debate.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-508	Madam President, I would like So I did not get an answer to the question of the consequences in Karlskoga and Örnsköldsvik and whether we are going to have to deal with BAE Systems in the future. I note that this is a big question mark. Then we can develop it to ask ourselves whether we should cooperate with the United States, the United Kingdom and France at all. They are very important partners for us in a variety of contexts. These countries have nuclear weapons. Should we not, as a consequence of the reasoning put forward here, say that we should stop cooperating with them? I believe that if this were done, Sweden would end up in a very difficult security policy situation. These countries are important in our cooperation in order, among other things, to maintain the balance in our part of Europe. I think it is important to develop the cooperation we have with Finland, the Baltic countries, Germany, Poland, the Nordic countries, the United Kingdom and France and the transatlantic link with the United States. It is crucial for the balance, stability and security of Europe and will be so for a considerable future. We have developed this policy for three years on the basis of a military non-aligned position and have done far more than was done in the eight years of the previous government. In view of the national defence capabilities, the stage of construction and the breaking of trends in national defence capabilities, it is necessary to complement this with cooperation with other countries. The development of society has been such that the speeds are very high, and the decisions are quick. Several countries get involved very quickly. I can't imagine a scenario where someone can stand outside if a country in our immediate vicinity is hit. We must prepare to help together. We will have to come back to what we do, but this is a situation that I really hope will not arise. Thank you for the debate.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-514	Madam President, I would like Ali Esbati has asked the Minister for Labour and Establishment how she views the information that has emerged in Dagens Arbetsning's review of Samhall, what measures she intends to take against this background, and what measures she intends to take in connection with Statskontoret's analysis of Samhall, focusing on the government's control of Samhall. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. In accordance with the Riksdag's decision, Samhall has a mission to produce the goods and services requested and thereby create meaningful and developing jobs for people with disabilities with reduced working capacity. In line with the general development of society, Samhall's activities have evolved over time from being focused on manufacturing to becoming more service-oriented. The responsibility for Samhall's operations lies with Samhall's board and management. As an active and professional owner, however, the government has an ongoing dialogue with the company and follows up its development. The image of Samhall's activities produced by Dagens Arbete is not reflected in Samhall's own employee surveys. On the contrary, Samhall's survey of employee satisfaction and health shows a rising trend and that employee satisfaction is above average in the labour market. I see no reason to question Samhall's work on staff issues based on the tasks of Dagens Arbete. The varying conditions and needs of Samhall's employees mean that the company is constantly seeking new assignments. According to the information I have received from the company, the tasks are evaluated by Samhall's responsible staff and head protection officer before a new assignment is taken in. One such new assignment was to dismantle colour markers on Samhall's Nyköping business. After an assessment and a short trial period to evaluate the different operations, the company chose to refrain from the assignment. There were never military shells with explosives, and Samhall has had it analysed that the paint powder in the markers contained no dangerous substances. I have full confidence that Samhall's board and management manage operations responsibly and continuously ensure the safety and health of employees at Samhall. I therefore do not intend to take any further action in relation to the information published today's Work on Samhall. Statskontoret's analysis of Samhall drew a number of conclusions that show both positive aspects and a number of development areas. In order to create the large number of jobs needed for people with disabilities with reduced working capacity, a continuous flow of new business around the country is required. The labour market policy objective drives the need for sales growth, not the long-term return target. However, it is of course important that the company shows an economy in balance over time. As regards the company's return target, it should be relevant and reasonable to take into account the company's operations, but it is also important that it is based on a market-based basis, not least from a competition perspective. The owner plans to review the targets in the future. Ali Esbati points out one important point, namely that compensation from the State has remained unchanged for many years, while wage costs have increased annually. Despite this, the company has been able to fulfil the owner's various community assignments, but the consequence has, among other things, been a strong negative result for several years and a risk of a lack of quality in the long term. This, of course, is not sustainable in the long term, and the government has therefore chosen to implement a significant increase in resources to Samhall in BP19, in cooperation with the Left Party. The Government's investment in Samhall in BP19 means that Samhall is given greater opportunities to develop its operations. This includes, among other things, funds for the company to be able to invest more in transitions to other employers. In addition, Samhall will now be able to strengthen support for employees in the operations. The company is also investing in new growth areas with the aim of broadening its operations and tasks and creating new jobs.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-526	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. I note that we agree that Samhall has an important mission and that it is positive that there is a strengthening of resources, as we agreed on in the budget proposal. I must admit, however, that I am a little disappointed by the Minister's reply. With regard to what concerns the priorities that Samhall's management is doing, where Samhall is going and how this goes over the working environment of some employees, I do not think the Minister's response indicates that he takes this seriously enough. Unfortunately, he ducks there. The questions I asked in the interpellation just over a month ago were raised by an article series in the newspaper Dagens Arbete, where it was a review that showed, among other things, how employees work with monotonous and physically heavy scrap handling. It also showed how other dismantled grenades were covered by an unknown paint powder for them that caused a number of inconveniences. The Minister points out in his reply that these grenades did not contain explosives, which is certainly true and pleasing. But it does not entirely capture the problem of people who have a reduced working capacity – people who often have a fragile health, physically and/ or mentally – being exposed to a heavy and dangerous working environment. It is a work environment with risks and stress factors that might not have been acceptable even in some workplaces with mainly workers who do not have a reduced working capacity and who are mainly in good health. I may think that the Minister is downplaying these revelations, but I am even more concerned that he does not seem to be concerned about the broader issue of the health and safety situation and the management situation in Samhall. He says, for example, that he expects the company to have an open and constructive dialogue with the unions. Then it doesn't feel completely safe. This is not at all problems or revelations that come as lightning from a clear sky. In April 2016, I had an interpellation debate with Ylva Johansson about Samhall from the perspective that several union leaders have had in their criticism of Samhall. In this 2016 interpellation debate, I raised the problem that Samhall has developed in a direction towards being more of a temporary agency in certain sectors and thus getting a range of jobs that suit certain groups well but that suit certain groups, which should be supported by Samhall, rather poorly. So these are sectors where it is very heavy and stressful sometimes, such as sanitation. It is a bit picant that I read a letter from several trade union representatives in Samhall with this particular criticism. They wrote: The company often says no to various smaller assignments if it is not cleaning, property or the like. The letter was made to none other than Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg. They had received an answer from the department that I also read out parts of. It said among other things: Individual business situations that are addressed in the letter are operational issues, but we assume that the company listens to the views that come in. In November 2015, the Ministry expected the company to listen. Now the department and the minister are counting on the company to listen. I think that's a little bit troubling. My concern is strengthened when I note that the Minister does not say anything about what Statskontoret's analysis commissioned by the Government should lead to more than that it pointed to a number of development areas. That is why I asked what measures the Minister intends to take in the light of this. It is against the backdrop of long-standing, diverse and fairly well-known criticism. There are also very many employees and many trade unionists in and around Samhall who have asked these questions. I think that they also deserve a better answer than has been found in the interpellation response.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-536	Madam President, I would like I shall start by saying that if the interpellier gets worried, I am worried because I think we should strive to try to take this issue very seriously. I will therefore try to be even clearer in the discussion ahead about how I have acted and what I imagine in the future. After the criticism that was addressed quite jointly in different contexts from several trade union organisations, I invited representatives of virtually all LO unions who have a significant Samhall activities and had a dialogue with them. There was a good and straightforward dialogue around the table, where they presented examples of local activities that had not worked, and where they also expressed criticism about how the dialogue with the company works. I would like to start by saying that this is a hugely important issue for me, because I expect state-owned companies to be examples. One of the basic functions, which must function in the Swedish labour market, is a good dialogue with trade unions. That's where the company has a homework to do. But I also understood that the trade union representatives were very interested in entering into a deeper dialogue with the company on both existing quality problems and how to work together to help develop the business over time. I have also reconnected this meeting with the company, and the management of the company is very clear to me that this issue is being taken very seriously. From what I understand – we can come back to – they have already had discussions with representatives of the trade unions to see how to work together in a different and more constructive way than has been the case so far. I believe that some of the real quality deficiencies that have emerged here could have been addressed if there had been a good dialogue and if criticism and views had been taken seriously. It is not always that a company's board and management will have exactly the same opinion as a trade union organisation. But it is a problem if one party feels that the dialogue is not working. I take that very seriously. That's the first part. When it comes to the changes in trends that have taken place, I actually share Ali Ali's description of how not only Samhall has developed but how the labour market in Sweden and society has changed. Previously Samhall had a very large proportion of his employees in traditional industry. We know that industry has been rationalised and changed in quite a few ways. There are therefore not as many jobs of the kind that Samhall previously had in the industry, which means that this field of work has been reduced quite sharply. Instead, the service sectors have grown in the form of, for example, cleaning. Cleaning is a very large part of Samhall's operations today. When I talk to Samhall, the company also feels that it is good that you have many jobs but that it also means that you have a little too few legs to stand on. One cannot therefore vary the tasks as much as one would like. You may not be able to find exactly the right tasks for everyone in Samhall. It will be a problem for quality and for business. It is an issue that is important to discuss. I also raised it with the trade union representatives. I am also listening very carefully to what Ali Esbati is saying now. Ylva Johansson and I have a dialogue on this. We are quite open and honest with people and say that if there is now discussion that the activities we have in Samhall are not enough as a tool for certain groups in the Swedish labour market, perhaps also disabled, then we have to look at it, either based on how the business can develop in Samhall or based on whether new tools are needed next to or next to it. I think it is an important discussion to conduct, and I want to take it very seriously about the labour market and the tasks that have been given over time make it more difficult to fulfil the mandate. The matter is that Statskontoret points to some challenges in its operations. One is that the disabled have a different character today, from physical disability to mental disability and multi-functional disabilities, which may be a little more difficult to work with for companies like Samhall.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-542	Madam President, I would like I have no reason to be very polemic in this debate. I think that together we have a great interest in making things happen. Precisely in view of the fact that I have been following this issue for a while and that this criticism is not entirely new, it is important to recall. I received a much more favourable answer in the Minister's second speech, which shows that the Minister has been clearer than the company's management. I believe that it is necessary to remain there because the trade union views that have existed come into the picture that the company's management has and are taken seriously. If they do not, then those who are both owners and responsible for legislation and other documents, who still give a certain kind of social responsibility to this company, must act. I think there are many who expect and do so with good reason. I think it is important for those who listen and follow this discussion to know that, in connection with the meeting that we had, for example, with reference to the review that Dagens Arbete made, both the CEO and the responsible politicians have been criticised about the problems that they see for their members. The chairman of IF Metall said: This is not how you can treat the most fragile people in society. I have also seen how people, both anonymously and with full names, have commented on these articles. They say that these are things they recognise for a long time and that there are problems with business managers not listening to this kind of more fundamental criticism. At Dagens Arbete you write yourself that you have talked to many who have worked with Samhall, with different tasks, but that almost no one wants to be in the newspaper with name and picture. They are afraid of reprisals and that what is their only way to provide will be turned off. It is also written that many stories are about people forcing themselves to work full time even though the body screams with pain. It's true – I know it well – that employers and trade unions do not always have the same image of a business, and it must be able to be in the Swedish model. However, there is an additional dimension here, namely that this applies to a group in the labour market which has very difficulty in making its voice heard. Then it becomes extra important and extra sensitive to listen to what is said, in order to be able to protect these people and their work situation. One should not get a situation where the company's management sees itself as someone who will only deliver a result to the government, while what is in a way the core task – to ensure that together, in a dignified and developing way, we create a part-labour market for people who, at least then, cannot be on the regular labour market – are forgotten and obscured. I think there have been some weaknesses in the answers received so far from the company's management, at least in what I have seen.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-547	Madam President, I would like Nobody knows enough that there have been some problems in the business and that over time there has been another type of operation in Samhall, which in itself poses greater challenges for the companies. There you need to have a little bigger discussion, perhaps not just about Samhall today, but about whether we have the right tools or need more tools in the toolbox with the labour market we have today. I think it is an important discussion to have, and I hope that together with the Left Party or other parties in the Riksdag we can have a discussion about developing this. The picture is interesting. As owner representative we follow the company, and one of the issues that has been up for discussion for several years is how employees feel stress and how they feel at work. One of the issues we have really followed up with the company in recent years is therefore the employee surveys, and just to make it a little more complicated, Samhall's employee surveys in recent years have had a rising trend. They have continuously, year by year, received more and more employees – both among the officials and among the ordinary staff – who have felt that the work is rewarding and that it is good at work. There has been a positive trend which is actually better than the average in the labour market. There are two pictures: this and that there are problems in the business – even that one is afraid to highlight some problems. There are two pictures I take very seriously, because there are two pictures that are very different. Then I am not saying that one picture is right and the other is wrong, but we have a job to do to actually understand each other and see where the problems lie in this. Perhaps that is what makes the management of the companies feel a certain pride, for it has been seen that it is an issue that has been important. The company has had rather poor financial conditions, and we have now in cooperation – for the first time in perhaps eight or nine years – given the company a substantial addition so that they can afford to work with the quality issues in Samhall in a different way. But despite the limited financial resources, there has been a positive trend in their employee surveys, which the company likes to measure – just to make the picture more complicated. When we talk about results, I would also just like to mention that the economic objectives of Samhall, which we are now going to review, have not been in charge of the operation. Samhall hasn't reached his goals for a very long time, but you've gone with loss. It is therefore not the objectives themselves, but an economic activity that has had major problems and major deficits. In the long term, a company does not feel well if it cannot have a stable business in the long term. If you don't even get the plus and minus to go together in the business it won't be good. I would like to say this anyway, because there has also been a discussion that it is somehow the economic objectives that have forced Samhall to expand its activities. Rather, it has been the ambition to give more people with disabilities a place in the labour market that has made it possible to find more assignments and more collaborations. It's about giving more people a job. It also has an ambition that more people will be able to take the step from Samhall into the regular labour market. There's a balance line, because if you set that goal too high, it could be--again--that maybe everyone doesn't fit in. It is therefore important to have a sufficiently high target for transition to the ordinary labour market. For not everyone may be fit on the regular labour market, but some may feel better and feel better in an activity within Samhall. I would therefore like to make it clear that I am taking this discussion seriously. I spoke to IF Metall's chairman on the phone only yesterday, and she testified that she has been in contact with the company. They have a good dialogue, and they have some initiatives to take together. I hope and believe that the criticism that has been highlighted, but also the initiatives that I and others have taken, will lead us to focus on the quality deficiencies that have emerged – but also to a more common picture of how Samhall's activities, which are important to many disabled people, can be taken forward and further developed.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-556	Madam President, I would like I think this is a good and constructive discussion, but I would nevertheless like to underline what the Minister says about, for example, employee surveys. While it is to be welcomed that they are moving in the right direction, they are faced with some methodological problems. Especially if you are dealing with people who are in a vulnerable situation, we know that it is not always self-evident that you get answers that reflect all trends and paths of development, so to speak. We will also contrast this with, for example, the fact that sick leave rates have increased at the same time over time. So it is not entirely obvious how to view these images, but I agree that it is more complicated. We should also think about, as the Minister was at the end, that it may well be that some people feel very good working in the kind of job that now constitutes the big volumes of what Samhall is doing. But if, at the same time, some of the people who are most fragile and need a completely different type of activity do not get access to it or get squeezed into jobs that make them feel worse and not better, it is important that they take hold of it and are very sensitive to that kind of problem. If I look back and look at how Samhall's management has expressed itself when criticism has been directed at the company, I think it is very important that the government, both as owner and otherwise as responsible for this important business, keep a close eye on what is happening and in the talks that are conducted with the company's management bringing in the values we have been at here.
i-PxQZsKoEBWBtFJt3t4sHek	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an important interpellation debate, Ali Esbati! This is an important company. It is a company that gives people who otherwise have very difficult access to the Swedish labour market a chance. The company has operations in almost all of Sweden; almost all municipalities around Sweden have such operations today, which is actually quite unique. There are 23,000 employees who go to work every day thanks to this business. It is therefore important that we safeguard it and do quality improvements, which we are now doing in the budget work for this year – for the first time in very many years. The ambition is that this will be able to grow by perhaps another 1 000 this year and 1 000 next year, so that we will give even more disabled people an opportunity in the Swedish labour market. However, it is also important to take seriously the quality discussions that now exist. There have been criticisms, and then you should take it seriously. You should go through it seriously and see what you can do, and I feel that the company now has a constructive dialogue with the trade unions to discuss this and see how you can move forward. True, there have also been sick people who have gone in the wrong direction over time, even though it has turned to the end. It's a question the company's been working on a lot. When it increased it was seen that it increased in the entire Swedish labour market, so Samhall is also a reflection of how it is at Swedish workplaces. Samhall's activities are embedded in other workplaces, so we have negative developments in the labour market as a whole, it is often the case that Samhall is drawn along by it. It is not an excuse, but it is an explanation; Samhall does not completely control his own activities, but one is dependent on cooperating with others. However, I am proud that we in Sweden have Samhall, which gives many people the chance. I want to, in cooperation with the Left Party, both increase quality and develop the business. Then it is also a matter of taking the quality issue very seriously, so I hope that we will show that we will also be doing so in the coming years.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-564	Madam President, I would like Lotta Olsson has asked me how I and the government intend to secure the supply of specialist nurses. Lotta Olsson highlights in the interpellation that the care queues in Swedish healthcare have increased during this term of office and that a crucial factor in ensuring care in time and shortening the surgical queues is the availability of specialist nurses. Accessibility in healthcare is a priority for the government. Over time, access to healthcare has improved, but in recent years there have been worrying developments linked to the accessibility measures in the healthcare guarantee. It is worth noting, however, that this development started already in the latter part of the period when the previous performance-based queue billions existed. The embodiment was criticised for leading to displacement effects and creative recording of waiting times. The issue of accessibility in healthcare is strongly linked to the provision of skills. The staffing and skills supply problems that exist in healthcare help to reduce the capacity of care and thus accessibility. This may, for example, be about closed care places and cancelled operations. The government has taken a number of measures to address the problems. For example, from 2017 we have increased the general state grants by billions for county councils. In addition, a specific professional billion has been introduced to address the challenges of skills provision. Through the agreement between the Government and the Swedish Municipalities and County Council on professional billions, SEK 950 million was allocated to the county councils in 2017, to promote the principals' opportunities to give healthcare employees good opportunities to carry out their work. The agreement on professional billions states that access to specialised nurses is an important factor in meeting the skills needs of future healthcare. The availability of nurses has increased in recent years, but the large increase in the population gives rise to increased demand, especially in certain specialities. This is also a concern because many experienced nurses retire and the proportion of nurses in relation to the population is therefore decreasing, albeit from a historically high level. As regards the interpellier's question of the availability of specialist nurses, the government has provided funds for the expansion of the number of training places in specialist nursing training. Training places for nurses and midwives have also been expanded. The latest budget proposal also proposes an extension of medical training. The Government has also commissioned a special investigator to review the specialist nursing training. The purpose of the review is for the future education to meet the changing needs of healthcare and provide students with the knowledge and skills needed to work independently as a specialist nurse. One objective of the funds in the agreement on professional billions is to encourage more nurses to want to further train themselves by offering various forms of financial support in education. Some of the funds are therefore earmarked to encourage more nurses to take a specialist training course in areas where national needs are high or in priority areas based on the needs of their activities. The funds will also be used to enable employees to combine studies with work through training contracts and various forms of educational benefits, such as partial or full pay during studies and, if necessary, travel grants. Measures taken by county councils within the framework of professional billions are closely followed by the National Board of Health and Welfare. The reports that have been made so far show that county councils take their responsibilities as principals and employers seriously and that they take relevant measures in this area. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has also been commissioned by the Government to develop the monitoring of healthcare accessibility. An important part of the work with skills provision is to take advantage of the knowledge that exists in the country and to allow everyone who can and wants to contribute with their skills. The Government has therefore also provided funds for the validation of foreign health education. In addition to the efforts already mentioned, the Government proposes a new investment of SEK 2 billion per year in 2018 – 2021 to improve the human resources situation and to develop healthcare operations. For example, staff investment should be used to review working conditions, to increase staffing and to recruit new staff. The aim is for healthcare professionals to want to continue working in healthcare. The initiative complements professional billions in a powerful way. Employers have an important responsibility for ensuring that the health care work environment and working conditions make it attractive for staff to become employees and to remain in care. By supporting the county councils in managing the challenges of skills and personnel supply, the county councils are given increased opportunities to shorten the care queues. All in all, I believe that the government today, with the historically large investments in healthcare now being carried out, is making extensive efforts to improve the supply of skills in various ways and thus also the availability of healthcare. It is efforts that support the county councils in a long-term way to carry out the important task and to take care of the need to offer good health care. Special efforts to ensure the availability of specialist nurses are an important part of this.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-579	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Government for the answer to my interpellation. Sweden has a high quality of health care. Sweden has a health care that is among the best in the world, and is one of the world's best countries to get sick in. This has been the case for a number of years, and we hope that it will continue to be so. One of the policy's most important challenges in the future is that there should be world-class healthcare, and that all citizens should have the opportunity to take part in it. It is no coincidence that our health care has come so far. The industry consists almost exclusively of people who want to do good for others and do a job that is of high quality. But there are clouds of concern on this light blue health and medical shroud. These are black thunder clouds such as care queues, staff shortages and skills provision. How, then, do you get away from these anxiety clouds? In the health debate in recent years, the Social Democrats have basically only had three answers. It is about profits in welfare, profits in welfare and profits in welfare. Unfortunately, it has looked like that. However, it is gratifying that the Government has answered a little more nuanced my question. The availability of specialist nurses really depends only on a few parameters: how many specialist nurses we need, how many are trained and start working in health care, and how many people actually remain in their profession. Let me start with the first parameter. The Government claims that the number of training places has increased. Yes, there are more training places. On the one hand, the question of teachers cannot be solved in certain places, and on the other hand, there are not enough applicants. A majority of the places of education, 19 of them, have not been able to fill their seats. It's troubling. There is also no proper requirement for our universities to resolve this issue. Social responsibility for what happens if not enough are trained will not be taken by universities. The age distribution among specialist nurses is also worrying. 47 percent of the corps is over 55 years old. And even if many work long, the need to cover retirements will be very great. This means that the training efforts are not dimensioned for the expected retirements. Who is responsible for this? In Sweden we also have problems with how attractive the profession is. After 4 – 5 years of university studies, an intensive care nurse does not have a salary or salary development comparable to other programmes of the same duration. That problem often resolves itself, for the individual. Ten per cent of Swedish nurses work in Norway. Then you've solved your own personal problem. But it doesn't help society. All these problems and challenges are unfortunately nothing that individual regions, county councils or universities can solve on their own. This will be a government issue.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-588	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Olsson, for a very important interpellation! I am pleased with the speech you have just made. Let me explain why. This is an issue that we really need to take very seriously. I would like a more nuanced debate. Just as Lotta Olsson says, the experience and feeling that Social Democrats and Red-Green talk profits in welfare times three. My experience is that the opposition is constantly talking about queues and queue billions. The question is more complex than that. That is also what I tried to describe in my answer. We have challenges that we have known for quite a long time. I myself have a background as chairman of a trade union that organises parts of health care staff. I have quite a long experience from there and know that we have known for a long time about the coming generation shift as well as the fact that the members have for many years topped the sickness statistics with the most sick leave due not least to stress, which is the most common cause. That is part of the answer to the question of why it is not possible to fill training places, so there are far too many nurses who choose to work elsewhere than where they would be most needed. The key forward is to pursue a policy that not only addresses the symptoms, i.e. that accessibility is reduced. Basically, you have to support the principals in the county councils in what is the basic problem and give them the opportunity to handle it better. The development of training places is therefore important. It is also important to increase the attractiveness of working with health professionals, regardless of their principals. Again, it should be a high status and an opportunity for a good development in the work of a nurse, specialist nurse, assistant nurse or doctor. We as politicians have a responsibility to contribute to this. These are also the steps that we have taken from the government to change the policy. I'm also very happy about the nuanced way you started your interpellation with. I myself usually start by talking about the very high quality that health workers, despite a tough work situation, deliver to the Swedish citizens. But it is clear that it does not help if people feel that they do not arrive at care when they need it. We must solve this. You even used the expression light blue health and medical shindig and said that there are dark clouds that we need to take on. I think that's a very good description. With regard to the second part of your speech, I would like to say that in the autumn a study was published in The Lancet comparing 195 countries and the mortality rate in 32 diagnoses. Sweden came there in fourth place. We can be proud of the medical quality. During the autumn I met all the county councils and conducted a dialogue based on a number of different issues. There are different geographical realities and different conditions for access to potential employees, but everyone describes this problem based on their different basic conditions. The government – and I will come back to that in my next speeches – will continue to work hard to get to what is the basic problem. Otherwise, we will not be able to handle healthcare in the future.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-600	Madam President, I would like This problem is actually on fire. My home hospital in Örebro is expanding the number of intensive care places. It is intended to increase the level of highly specialised care. The highly specialised care is today very effective. This requires considerable efforts by people with a high level of competence over a shorter period of time. You have to do a more qualified job for a short time in order not to have to use a place of care. It is good for the patient, health care and society and costs are lower. But as a middle manager you have problems with staffing for almost every weekend. The people who are supposed to be supervisors for tomorrow's nurses need to have a high level of competence. We know that 47% will retire in ten years' time. Then we understand that this cannot be solved by long investigation missions, but this is burning here and now. In my municipality of residence there is a university where there are educational places. But you excuse yourself that you have not been able to find a lecturer with the right skills to start an education. When you as a nurse have come so far in your educational career that you should get a specialist education, you often already have a house and family. It's not just moving to another place and taking that education. The life puzzle requires that you can do it in your home town. It surprises me how universities can have a number of socially important places of education and not take that mission very seriously. In five years, only half of nurses with long experience will be left. Anyone who expects a highly specialised care and that one should have the top notch quality of healthcare should also be concerned. It is not certain that it will look like this in the future. It can be something completely different if you do not have that competence. The vast majority of those who have obtained this education want to remain in the profession. There must then be a long-term opportunity for skills development and good working conditions. When there is a shortage of staff and you feel so stressed out that you can't even work full time, then something is very wrong. The government must accept that these are not private hospitals. They're all publicly run hospitals. The whole debate on society is about a pseudo problem, but the biggest problems I can see in health care are actually in regions, county councils and now also in the government where social democrats have a majority. Then I don't understand why you don't get to grips with the real problems. These problems will not be solved by themselves. I hope that the Minister will now really take this on board and that it will not be a long investigation that will be completed by next autumn that has been proclaimed. Something has to happen here soon. There's actually a fire.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-609	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the input! It's just like this. Like Lotta Olsson, I am very often in health care and talk to politicians, officials and, above all, employees. They try every day to patch and fix. I was at Nya Karolinska last week and discussed how to deal with preparedness issues in the future. Then I met staff who were very concerned about the situation in the emergency room. That's how it looks around the country, so don't twist that picture. It looks relatively similar in many county councils. This week I had the privilege of congratulating Norrland University Hospital, which has been named Sweden's best hospital for the third time the second year in a row. It's one of the hospitals that wrestles with geography. Now in Umeå they have an education in their locality, but in Norrland it is – just as Lotta Olsson describes – a shift where a very large proportion of the staff will retire eventually. You're really working with this. Through smart strategy and solid improvement efforts, despite the lack of accessibility, it has managed to deliver good quality and satisfied patients. But you need support and help in County Sweden. Just as Lotta Olsson says, we national politicians should really take responsibility from our level and step in. It is true, as Lotta Olsson says, that we have a separate study on health care that, from a more general perspective, should look at how the resources that we still devote to health care are used in the absolute best way. It will be absolutely necessary to do this. It should also be added that I have also included in the directives for the investigation the issue of temporary work agencies, relay doctors and relay nurses. We know they cost a lot of the hospitals. This means that there will be a lack of continuity and that the satisfaction among patients will not increase. It will be exciting to listen to all of this. Very important this year is of course also that we make a very big investment as we spend a lot of money – actually more than what has been done over the past 20 years – to the county councils, and these should be invested in the staff and staff conditions. The funds should go directly to be able to work with work environment issues and working time schedules. You should be able to hire more people where it's needed. However, I shall not simplify the matter and say that it can be resolved overnight, because it will not. In parallel, our primary care investigator Anna Nergård's investigation is also ongoing. It looks at the necessary transformation of Swedish health care. This began during the time of the alliance government with Göran Stjernstedt and Effective Care. In that investigation it was said that we have to switch from a very hospital-heavy care where you work in drainpipes to expanding the close care. We need to ensure that much more can be done in primary care today and that we get more skills that can meet up there. This is something that is welcomed by the professions. Anna presented her first interim report before the summer and will include the next one in May. I very much look forward to our being able to keep this transition in confidence with the professions of health care. It will need political support for a long time. When it comes to training places, universities need to take on a different and greater responsibility. I would like to come back to that in the next speech.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-622	Madam President, I would like I think this is one of the industries that is most difficult to control, because the care chains are so complex and it is about something as important as our health and about life and death. The staffing groups here are extremely well educated, but they have very little autonomy in the organisation. Everything is governed politically, and individual clinics or organisations are rarely allowed to decide much about how they want to make their own business as efficient as possible. Many times very much is controlled from above. Primary care must assume its responsibilities and not deliver – if you can say so about people – so many people to the emergency care that could actually have been treated in primary care. This is really a huge failure. In my region, which I know best, health centres are going back with minus 56 million. We don't have private health centers. Profits in welfare are not the problem. At the same time, hospitals receive many patients on call, who could actually have come to a health centre. Then I do not think that the organization is at all ready for this change. You've got a whole different way of thinking. It is also about the control systems and how they are controlled. How is it that you can get an assignment as a health centre and then not meet the requirements? Patients are being pushed into emergency medical care that would have been at the health center.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-626	Madam President, I would like If I were to be honest, this debate would have had to go on longer. I very much share the view that this is a complex activity that is difficult to manage. The problems in primary care highlighted by Lotta Olsson are clear. If you compare Swedish primary care in an international perspective, you can see that our primary care accounts for a very small proportion of healthcare today. I think it's about 18%. In many other countries it is 30 - 35 percent. We have a rapid demographic development in Sweden with an increasing number of fragile elderly people, and we see that primary care does not meet its mission. It is also about the staff there having a tough strained situation. You can't say anything other than that. They run pretty fast and also have skills supply problems. However, the fragile elderly come into the hospital emergency wards instead and place a burden on them, and there is not really the competence. Today, 80 to 85% of all resources in healthcare go to someone with at least one chronic disease. It is another disease panorama today that the Swedish health care system is not really built for. At the same time, we know that with competent and skilled professions and a lot of traditions and hierarchies, a change is not made overnight. It is about doing things in the right order, gradually strengthening primary care, training more general doctors who are missing today, and getting more specialist nurses out. We also need to have a situation so that there is room for supervision when the specialist nurse or midwife comes out. It is true that today this is a bottleneck. It's about working on together. As politicians, one must try to take responsibility both nationally and in dialogue with county councils. You also have to work long-term. Thank you for a good interpellation debate!
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-633	Madam President, I would like Margareta Larsson has asked if it is reasonable to report under-reports to the list of side effects of children and adolescents who have been suicidal and who have been given adhd medicines. Furthermore, Margareta Larsson wonders what I can do for the MPA's accounting to work based on the Government's mission on drug safety for children and young people. Let me start by saying that preventing suicide is an important issue for me and for the government. Already this year, the Government is allocating over SEK 1 billion for interventions in psychiatry and mental health. The Government has proposed a strengthening of mental health work by SEK 650 million for 2018 and intends to strengthen the work with more than SEK 1 billion per year in 2019 and 2020. The expansion of the initiative is being done, among other things, to strengthen first-line care and specialized psychiatry for children and adults. Since 2015, the Government has strengthened its work on suicide prevention. Since May 2015, the Swedish Public Health Agency has been tasked by the Government to coordinate the work on suicide prevention at national level. For this work, the agency receives SEK 5 million annually. In addition, the Swedish Public Health Agency has paid out SEK 15 million in 2017 in operating grants to non-profit organisations that conduct promotion and preventive work in the area of mental health and suicide prevention. Of course, under-reporting of adverse drug reactions, when it occurs, is not reasonable. The government attaches great importance to official statistics and reporting. Several of the Ministry of Social Affairs' authorities have an extensive responsibility for these issues, which is regulated by law. I follow the work of the authorities closely. Regarding adverse drug reactions, the Ministry of Social Affairs has also entered into an agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions (SKL) and has provided funds for a new IT support to simplify adverse drug reaction reporting. The project will be carried out in 2017 and 2018 by Inera together with Region Uppsala and the Medical Products Agency. In your question, you highlight various risks of taking synthetic drugs. I cannot stress enough that the choice of treatment method rests on medical expertise and is not a political issue. I would also like to point out that drugs for many are something that relieves mental illness. In many cases, medicines, such as antidepressants, can prevent an attempted suicide. In other cases it may pose a risk. However, it is important to ensure that healthcare is conducted in a patient-safe manner. A piece of the puzzle in this is that reporting of side effects should work blamelessly. The Government's strategy for the use of medicines gives the government the opportunity to support the work towards a more quality-assured use of medicines. Among other things, SKL has been given responsibility for a subproject to improve the reporting of adverse reactions from the healthcare sector with the aim of creating an electronic system that enables direct reporting from the medical records system to the Medical Products Agency. The goal is for healthcare professionals reporting a suspected adverse reaction to have the function in their medical records system and for basic data to be automatically filled in to simplify reporting, save time and avoid misreporting. Medicines and care given to children and young people require special safety. Children have the right to safe, effective and well-documented medicines. However, there are still gaps in knowledge, a lack of child-adapted medicines and potential safety problems. There is a need for increased documentation and knowledge about medicines for children. As a result, the Government has commissioned the Swedish Medical Products Agency to increase knowledge of children's medicines and to promote more efficient and safer drug use for children, both girls and boys. The mission includes a programme of actions and a long-term commitment to improve children's drug use. Need analysis, prioritisation, implementation and follow-up are important cornerstones of the programme. In order to deliver the best results, there is a need for collaboration with healthcare professionals involved in children's treatment, as well as with authorities and other actors in the field. The assignment has resulted in knowledge support in most areas of clinical paediatric care. The assignment has also resulted in increased collaboration between actors to describe needs and follow up drug use issues. The MPA's child assignment should be seen as an important contribution to meeting one of the goals of Agenda 2030, namely to ensure a healthy life and promote well-being for people of all ages. In conclusion, my assessment is that the government has taken a number of relevant measures for a more reliable reporting of side effects from medicines as well as a better prevention of mental illness and suicide.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-641	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the Government shares my concern and takes this issue seriously. It is not acceptable that side effects are not reported, as it has been so far. I would like to reconnect with what I wrote in the interpellation to illustrate the seriousness of the matter. Sweden has a relatively high proportion of unsafe suicides associated with psychopharmaceuticals. What it looks like in the older category I do not yet have information on, but when it comes to suicide attempts and poisoning among minors, the Poison Information Centre has the following facts: Between 2011 and 2014 it was 1,664 children who were so heavily affected by adhd medications that they went ambulance into hospital. Between 2011 and 2016, there were 710 cases of suicide attempts or self-harm using these adhd drugs. Only three of these cases were reported in the registry of adverse reactions. We can then look at antidepressants. Between 2006 and 2015, 54 adolescents aged 15 to 24 years killed themselves during treatment with Fontex. Not a single case was reported to the Medical Products Agency. Then we should also know that, according to official warnings, these drugs double the risk of suicidal tendencies. The Medical Products Agency has known about this all through the years, but nothing has been done to alert about it. Ten years have passed since the MPA officials passed the approval of the product Prozac, now known as Fluoxetine. It was promised after the authorisation to carry out important follow-up studies on the effects and damage that the preparation could cause to young people. This has not yet been done after ten years. The MPA also did not investigate how known the risk of suicide was. No suicides have been reported by doctors either. In the Government's response, I can hear that the government now wants to improve reporting with new electronic systems, and that is great. It is very good that attention has finally been paid to this issue. What I wonder a little bit is what was really wrong with the old system that made it so impossible to report on these things. Maybe the government knows a little more about it? I don't know about that. I have another little wonder. Several of the Department of Social Affairs' authorities have had a responsibility to ensure that these rules are complied with. Why has it not been done for so long?
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-647	Madam President, I would like I thank Margareta Larsson for an issue that is of course extremely important. We need to work constantly to improve patient safety. I will initially try to give some answers to the questions I now received from Margareta Larsson. I have also tried to describe what we are doing in the different areas where Margareta Larsson had her questions in a rather educational way. As Margareta Larsson rightly points out, it is obvious that there is already a clear reporting requirement for adverse drug reactions. The suspicion of an adverse drug reaction should already be reported. It doesn't have to be investigated, and it doesn't have to be confirmed. This is a regulatory framework that also applies to herbal medicinal products, certain external medicinal products and veterinary medicinal products. In addition, it has been expressed that it also wishes to report, for example, on both cosmetic and hygienic products. There is a clear reporting requirement, and there is also a breadth in this. All adverse reaction reports should be sent to the MPA. It is mandatory for health care and voluntary for consumers. Today, there are two ways to report: through the Medical Products Agency's e-services and through paper forms. It's very simple in Word. Margareta Larsson refers to a dark number. It is clear that there is such a thing today, I can see when I put myself in the figures. The Swedish Medical Products Agency receives approximately 5 000 reports of so-called adverse reaction reports from the healthcare sector annually. With a population approaching 10 million and more than 200 000 potential reporters in the Swedish health care system, we can of course conclude that there is a large number of darkness in the reporting. The explanations I hear include the fact that today this is perceived as very time-consuming and that you are poor at giving feedback on the reports that are being made. This is a background to the fact that the Ministry of Social Affairs has entered into this agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council. We now have an objective to introduce another IT system to simplify the reporting of medicinal products. We first made a pilot, but now we're talking about a real situation. This is carried out last year and this year by Inera, which is Sweden's Municipalities and County Council's IT company, together with Region Uppsala and the Medical Products Agency. I think that's an important part of this. Another part that I would like to link back to – I will get back to this in my later posts – is that the MPA's side effects work is quite extensive based on the reports that you get in. I see it when I get into this. It does intensive work itself, but it also participates internationally in extensive cooperation with the authorities of other EU countries in order to identify the importance of adverse reactions. I have tried to double-check the figures from the GIC referred to by Margareta Larsson. I would be happy to come back to that in my next speech.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-655	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for the information on the old system and on the new one, which we want to work better. I hope it will have a better effect. I hope that the number of darkness will be zero. Nevertheless, I wonder a little – can we really make sure that the new electronic reporting system achieves the government's goal of desired improvements? We're not getting away from the fact that it's the person behind it who's supposed to report. What I suspect is that you haven't had the routine. Now the Government says that it is due to time constraints and poor feedback. Of course it's explanations we're hearing. But we can't get away from the fact that this is a habit you've had for a long time. We have also seen this when it comes to the underreporting of electroshock treatments, which I mentioned in a previous interpellation. One might suspect that it is a bit of an attitude issue. It can be a little difficult to focus solely on a system when we need more personal accountability. We should remember that the MPA has access to data on hundreds of intolerable side effects from adhd medicines. But it is also about the willingness to inform about it, which we have not seen to the extent we would like. If we do not get all the information that is withheld from us, we will also not get better and safer medicines for children as the Government wishes. It's all about the good will. I can take a concrete example of good will. The year was 2014 when Swedish psychiatrists printed out, among other things, the adhd medicines Ritalin, Concerta and Strattera just to say that those medicines worked very badly. As their last option, they wanted to prescribe pure amphetamines. However, in order to do so, it is necessary for them to apply for a licence from the Medical Products Agency in each case. To get it, they have to describe how bad the adhd drugs really work. Madam President, I would like Then the adverse reaction register and reporting functioned perfectly well. They reported everything. It was no problem at all. It wasn't about that it was time-consuming or something, but it worked perfectly. There were 300 psychiatrists who did it in 2014. Against this background, I wonder whether the government's commitment to the new electronic system will be so revolutionary. It's a good idea. It's great. But it is still that it is the person behind the system who should choose to and want to report. How can the Government guarantee this if it really is a health culture that sits in the walls?
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-661	Madam President, I would like It is extremely important that we have a conversation about increasing safety linked to the use of medicines for children and young people. It's really important. But before I get into that, I want to say something more about what we're doing now. It sounds like it's just a new IT system, but it's not really like that. The idea is to create an electronic system that enables direct reporting from the journal system to the Medical Products Agency. The goal is for healthcare professionals reporting a suspected adverse reaction to have the function already in their medical records system. It is therefore not something that should be done separately that is particularly time-consuming or that should be done on specific forms, but it is something that lies in the journal system. The basic data shall be filled in automatically to simplify reporting, save time and avoid misregistration. I am of the fundamental opinion, which is important to say, that I have a great deal of confidence in the staff working in the Swedish healthcare sector and in their willingness and competence. This is particularly true of the desire to do the very best job they can. We were into this with suicidal tendencies. Patients who develop suicidal ideation or behaviour during treatment of adhd for various reasons should be immediately assessed by their doctor. Aggravation of an underlying mental disorder and a possible causal relationship should be taken into account. This is also the basis for the Swedish Medical Products Agency having published new treatment recommendations for depression, anxiety and obsessive-compulsive disorder in children and adolescents in 2016. It may be important to have with you. At the same time, it is the responsible treating physician who, in each individual case, makes the assessment of the treatment method and the medicinal products to be used and who is responsible for monitoring. It is a basic foundation in Swedish health care. A particular problem has been identified in relation to bipolar disorders, as I understand it, and the use of methylphenidate for the treatment of adhd patients with bipolar disorder at the same time. As I understand it, careful and continuous monitoring of these patients is absolutely necessary. Patients should be monitored for symptoms with each dose adjustment and at least every six months thereafter and at each visit. Nevertheless, it is important to say that we see that there is a problem here. However, there are treatment recommendations, and there is a clear indication of where the responsibility lies in terms of treatment. The MPA and GIC have also been clear in reconnecting the figures that Margareta Larsson mentions. That's right. In their statistics, what Margareta Larsson mentions is self-destructive action. It includes various incidents involving the drug groups and also, for example, misdosings.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-672	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your exposition! With this discussion, I would like to raise a reflection on what we are doing. What I want to say is that billions are being budgeted for psychiatry from the state budget without anything being called back. That's remarkable. It has not been possible to demand that the reporting function, as an example. When the important pieces are ignored, there is a lack of science and proven experience, which is often invoked, about mental illness. This, in turn, reduces confidence in the current expertise in which the Government has such confidence. The Government's response states that medicines and care for children and young people require special safety. At the same time, methylphenidate is prescribed more than ever for children and adolescents in Sweden, and many side effects have been withheld. That's a lot of money in the pharmaceutical business. We're not gonna hymn that, are we? That could be a certain reason. The number of tablets seized by the police has increased sharply. The last time the investigator at the National Board of Health and Welfare showed that. It has increased from just a few hundred per year in the early 2000s to now 7 000 in the last year that has been seized. The amphetamine-like drugs are prescribed to such an extent to children and young people in Sweden that it really should be analysed. There is no research on how methylphenidate affects a growing brain. At the same time, the facts through the Poison Information Centre show what children and young people are prepared to do with this type of medicine. It is very important that we get safe handling of drugs for children. I would like to conclude by saying that I would like us to have better care than we have today when it comes to treatment with pills and electric shocks in Sweden.
i-e5e222e1e8dc6c59-680	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Margareta Larsson, for your great commitment to this issue! You update it in different ways at regular intervals. We are thus given the opportunity to turn it around and tell us what we are doing and what we see from the government. I think we have a largely good health care in Sweden. But there is also a reason why we make the big efforts we make on psychiatry on the part of the government. We have almost doubled the appropriations since we took office, and above all we are making a special effort on children and young people. During the last 20 years we have seen in Sweden, as in many other Western countries, how not least mental illness has increased. We must constantly develop treatment methods in an area which, unfortunately, is still quite deeply stigmatised in society today. I find it exciting that there were new treatment recommendations in 2016 in several of these parts aimed at children and young people. We have also developed the treatment recommendations for adults. The National Board of Health and Welfare came up with this last year, and it is about many times recommending treatment with therapy as a first-line alternative in cases of, for example, mild and moderate depression over antidepressants. At the same time, everything is a balancing act, and one must be able to see that there are also situations where an antidepressant medicine has helped many people get back to health and a good life. However, as I said, we must constantly work to improve patient safety, to evaluate medicines and to have the best interests of the patient in mind. From there we simply move piece by piece. I have great hopes with regard to the efforts that the government is now making, and I will follow this up carefully.
