i-5ed94879815bfa43-8	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by welcoming this report as such. It is welcome that Sweden finally gets a policy for architecture, form and design. Gestalted habitat is ultimately about how we fill the physical spaces between people with content. Who owns the public room today? What is the role of art and culture in urban development? How is sustainable society built, and what do we put in the concept of sustainability? The Gestalted Living Environment investigation was set up by the Alliance Government to strengthen the values and importance of architecture, form and design for the individual, living environment and sustainable development of society. They wanted to see how a new policy for the area could be designed and that could contribute to a creative Sweden where people can grow and develop into independent, creative and active individuals. Sweden is growing, and Sweden is growing fast. In this rapidly growing Sweden, housing policy is constantly on the agenda. It is natural, but it is not only a matter of living but also of how we live and how we create secure environments where independent, creative and active individuals can grow and feel secure and participatory. Often the holistic approach has been lacking in this type of question. Demands have been made for the rapid and inexpensive expansion of housing, especially in our metropolitan areas. This has not always been consistent with other requirements for sustainable living environments. The result has been seen, among other things, in our millions of programme areas, and sometimes it has been devastating. People have a need for both reasonable housing and a stimulating external environment with a sense of satisfaction, security and the possibility of a rich leisure time in terms of both exercise, play and sport. There is no contradiction between a modern policy that stimulates increased construction and a well-thought-out living environment. It is therefore essential that housing policy and architectural policy go hand in hand. That is precisely why it is with particular pleasure that we can debate this report today in a composite committee between the Committee on Civil Liberties and the Committee on Culture. I would like to express my special thanks to my colleagues in both committees and also to our committee offices. Mr President, I would like to One of the tasks the alliance government assigned to the investigator was to review the national goals of architecture, form and design. The study proposes that the overall goal should be to strengthen the area's influence and thus contribute to the formation of a long-term sustainable and well-designed living environment. However, the government has chosen to change this goal and writes that architecture, form and design should contribute to a sustainable, equal and less segregated society with carefully designed habitats where everyone is given good opportunities to influence the development of the common environment. This is both regrettable and problematic in several ways. The fact that something is going to contribute to sustainability, equality and a reduction in segregation sounds excellent, and I do not think anyone in this House wants to see the opposite development. But the complicated thing happens when the government wants to order it out of creative processes. And why are these values much more important than others? Should not the concept of security be central to our common habitats? Once again, I regret to say that the government, and especially the environmental part, is unable to keep arm's length away on issues where this is very important. As chairman of the Committee on Culture, I am not entirely unaccustomed to this. There, signals have long been sent that risk reducing cultural policy to a tool for solving other societal problems, and now the luck has come to architecture. You probably want well, but you don't know in what form or what position to express it. Of course, we all want to see a more equal and less segregated society, but it is not something that can be ordered politically in a creative process. For us, architecture must be allowed to develop freely, without political locks or calls. It is the free architecture itself that contributes to a more open society, and it is in the interaction between clients, developers and architects that this happens. But this interaction is best done if politicians keep their paws away. The Alliance agrees with the study's assessment that we all benefit from the better conditions and impact of the tools provided by architecture, form and design, and that a new policy for the area will promote development and eventually lead to greater impact in society. Therefore, we also urge that the investigation's proposal is what should apply – that the overall objective of the national policy on architecture, form and design is to strengthen the area's influence and thus contribute to the formation of a long-term sustainable and well-designed living environment. Mr President, I would like to A difficult consequence of goals is that they should also be lived up to. In this context, the second part of the government's proposal for a target – that everyone should be given the opportunity to influence the common environment – is also complicated, because it is unclear what it means. Are these new mandatory consultation processes? We fear that this risks further hampering an already poorly functioning planning and construction process. This is the last thing Sweden needs. Talking about a natural habitat without affecting the conditions for construction in Sweden does not benefit the question of the physical habitat. If decisions on new requirements and orientations in terms of the form of living environment are made without this being linked to the issue of construction simplifications, it risks overturning rather than helping when the national targets are to meet the harsh reality in our municipalities. This is what the Alliance points out in its reservation, and we regret that the government has not been able to take a holistic approach. Finally, Mr President, I have spoken a lot about architecture today, but the subject of the report also contains form and design. The fact that this has been done is, of course, due to the fact that it is mainly an architectural policy bill that the government has put forward. We think that the design area is rigidly treated, and we regret that. The fact that there are good conditions for further development of Swedish form and design is important for our country and for those of us who live here. It will therefore be a delicate task for a new government to revitalise the design area. Mr President, I would like to Of course, I support both the reservations of the Alliance and the Moderates, but for time winning I only ask for reservation 1.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-24	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to express my support for the reservations of the Swedish Democrats 2 and 5 in the report. We are in favour of all our reservations, but for time-winning, we are only in favour of them. Happy street, you're no more. You've disappeared all over the block. Quiet has the game, quiet has the song. High above the ground, the concrete floats. When I came back, everything was so changed, trampled and desecrated, corrupted and desecrated. A song shall come between these high houses one day. It's as wonderful and beautiful as the one we've heard once. It's winged lines from Anna-Anna-Lena Löfgren's hit Happy street. In 1967 it was 14 weeks at Svensktoppen and sold 150 000 copies throughout the country. It was a reaction to the tear-down wave that flooded Sweden's cities and devoured entire blocks and residential areas of older character and not infrequently of great cultural historical value. The demolition of Klara Quarter in Stockholm is perhaps one of the more famous. But the demolitions were not a big city phenomenon but brought the country around, many times without pardons and consideration. Functionalism and modernism in glass and concrete replaced beauty and classicism in wood and stone, sometimes in simpler designs but not infrequently carefully built and embellished properties where the craftsman's professional pride shone with shine. Tradition and harmony had to be ironed on the foot for the physical foundation and bureaucratic framework of the folk home in the built environment. Where are we today? Keep the lock! Save Astoria! Keep Blasieholmen! Do you recognize the slogans? Are those headlines from the 1960s? No, it's Stockholm 2018. Here and now cultural environments are strongly threatened with the history and character of the capital. These are environments of high cultural and historical value. The other day a breath of fresh air came out when the Land and Environment Court said no to the new Nobel Centres. But the decision will be appealed. This is largely the exception that confirms the rule that we see too many signs in time of how our common cultural environment of cultural historical value is distorted, fulfied, demolished or destroyed, both in rural areas and in Stockholm. The tear-down wave of the 1960s has not stopped. The Swedish Democrats propose a special incentive contribution to municipalities to strengthen and upgrade antiquarian competence and cultural environmental competence in the country's municipalities. Too many municipalities have major shortcomings in this respect or completely lack this competence in planning and building units or equivalent. This, in turn, puts cultural history environments at risk, both in the case of new exploitation and in the care of existing environments. Consideration and harmony where new meets old walls a stable popular foundation for an organic community building. Cultural environments bring together civic engagement and grass-roots activism. People simply care about their physical environment, the visual impression, and about our common home, where some are a bygone era but also a time of durability and quality. This remains and forms part of our collective memory. The Government's proposal on the natural environment presented in the Riksdag seeks to abolish the corresponding objectives of architecture, design and design and to establish new national targets. Regrettably, the government's proposal is inadequate in terms of respect for people's wishes and our historical heritage. We propose new cultural policy objectives, where a cultural perspective becomes an integral part of urban development issues, cultural planning for real, and a review of the possibilities of legally requiring municipalities to set up beauty councils and specify how municipal architectural programmes can be set up. The municipal beauty councils should be broadly composed and have the task of issuing opinions on the master plan, the process of the detailed plan and new exploitation. We also propose that some elements of the master plan or detailed planning process, including a mandatory consultation process with county architect, municipal architect, civil society and citizens, should be introduced as a rule. Quality, craftsmanship and time typical harmonisation with the existing cultural environment will become more important aspects of procurement. An investigation may look at how this can best be implemented. Already in a 1995 state inquiry, it was noted that the common living environment has many shortcomings and that citizens are calling for harmony and beauty. Research shows that consideration of these aspects contributes to increased well-being. If aesthetically pleasing environments, integrated planning of green areas and open-air areas and harmony between new and old buildings could be achieved in our jointly designed environment, this would have a positive impact on public health. The government writes the following: a sense of belonging and pride in the common environment helps to build a society that stays together. It is a formulation drawn from the views of the Swedish democrats on which beams are responsible in the physical construction of society. We want to look at how citizens can have a greater influence on the environments in which they live and that the society we build is in line with the people's vision of what a good living environment is. We also want to set up local beauty councils in all municipalities, where citizens and associations as well as municipalities and county boards are invited, involved and heard about new exploitation. Cultural planning, where time typical harmonisation and design with the existing cultural environment is done, should be the rule and not the exception. On this basis, the design of our common habitat would be strengthened in terms of democratic participation, respect and understanding of beauty, tradition, craftsmanship and heritage. This is a characteristic of Swedish democratic architecture and housing policy, firmly established and stable on the basis of our ideological principles but at the same time topical. Mr President, I would like to Our vision is clear: Sweden is the common home of our citizens. It should be built together and on a proven basis with values such as small-scaleness, security and tradition in view and with respect for historical houses and harmony in the physical community home for tomorrow. Only then will community building become a natural habitat – a home and not just a house. Only then will we be back on the happy street.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-38	Mr President, I would like to I want to start by thanking Aron Emilsson for denouncing a very nice song that I am very fond of. Perhaps I did not think that what the songwriter was referring to was what Aron Emilsson talked about in his speech. The rhetoric of the Swedish democrats is beginning to be recognized quite clearly from cultural policy debates. This is now about the debate on architecture policy. There are features of some form of constructed national romanticism, but it is a little unclear what they really romanticize or want to preserve. I have a fairly straightforward question for Aron Emilsson. When you look at your cultural political movements, they are very much about a Sweden that once was. They are about history and retrospect, and you are explicitly opposed to contemporary culture. My direct question is: Are you also against contemporary architecture?
i-5ed94879815bfa43-42	Mr President, I would like to My straight answer is no. But this depends on the will of the citizens. I wonder where the ambitions of the Alliance and the Moderates are when they describe in their accompanying motion in this report that culture must not be reduced to a tool for solving other social problems. As Olof Lavesson put it, politics should not be involved in the design of our common environment. That is not what we are describing either. If Olof Lavesson and the Alliance have read our follow-up motion, they know that we believe that citizens should gain increased trust in real consultation processes. I don't want politics picking up any more. But citizens should get into the process earlier, and politicians and decision-makers need to listen to how our collective community wants to build our collective environments. I wonder where the ambitions of the Alliance and the Moderates are when they express themselves in their accompanying motion. At the same time, decision-makers and elected representatives are the people's extended arm to bring about change and ambition based on the contract signed between decision-makers and voters in an election. If we see an increased proportion of the population and the general public in municipalities and throughout the country concerned and concerned that the nature of the area, local identity, citizenship and democratic dialogue are not taken into account, what do the Moderates want to do about this when they say that it is up to the market to resolve this? Of course, there needs to be interaction between decision-makers and the market. But what political ambitions do the Moderates have to oil this interaction and speak out against what the market cannot live up to in a hysteria of modular building and straight lines without respect for traditional traditions in built-up environments?
i-5ed94879815bfa43-46	Mr President, I would like to If Mr Emilsson had listened to my speech, he would have heard that what I criticised was what happens when you do not take in the profession. That is why we need architecture in society, and that is why we need art in society. Art is not something that politicians create by going around and listening and trying to control citizens or that can be ordered in one way or another. Art is created by professional artists. Architecture is created by professional architects in close consultation with those who will live in these environments. I spoke about this process in my speech, i.e. the creative process that arises in the conversation between the client, the developer and the architect. I do not think that either me or Aron Emilsson belong there. How does Aron Emilsson believe that all these national romantic properties and environments he is talking about have emerged? Does he think that they arose by themselves or that there was a big meeting in the square and that they then built Stockholm City Hall? It was good architects who listened, who saw the development of society and who with their expertise could meet the questions that people asked and create the environments, buildings and houses that we will develop in as people, whether we were born here or elsewhere. Aron Emilsson speaks of, and clearly writes in his motion, that one should politically define aesthetics and what are aesthetic values. Do the Swedish Democrats have any respect for the profession? I did not hear a single word in Aron Emilsson's speech about the role of the architect and about the knowledge that exists about how Sweden will be built sustainablely in the future. It is just as in cultural policy: it is backward-looking, and it is backward-looking. I can only regret that.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-49	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting that Olof Lavesson thinks this is backward and backward looking when we are the only party in the composite committee that has come up with new, forward-looking proposals where the Alliance's follow-up motion is empty. Of course, the architect's role is there. It is self-evident, and that is why we do not express it. If something is not highlighted today and is under-served, it is the role of the citizens. It is not a question of politics being more and more direct, or of decision-makers being more involved in our local environments, but of citizens' opinions being raised and brought forward. When the Alliance and the Moderates rather want to make it more difficult to appeal against the construction plan process and think that the market should solve all our problems and we see that it does not work, the policy must take a responsibility to catch up with the citizens the voices heard from the happy or unhappy street. What do we want our collective public environment to look like? Someone must do this – not politics, but citizens, and someone must speak out for it. Olof Lavesson says that there should be close consultation between decision-makers and citizens and between architects and citizens. That is exactly what we are proposing: developed forms of such a developed consultation. For in too many municipalities this is not working today. A majority of municipalities also lack antiquarian competence and cultural environmental competence. What do the Moderates want to do to bring about an improvement in this area? I have seen nothing in the accompanying motion, and I have seen nothing in any other context either. There are no answers here. This means that citizens' will and desire for both the preservation and development of older people and new environments are not taken care of by decision-makers. There I think the Moderates and the Alliance owe an answer.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The need for housing is record-high, and the biggest problem is the fragmentation of the housing market. What is being built is primarily for those who can afford to pay, while large groups are completely unable to enter the housing market. The experience of insecurity in the built environment leads us to demand money for more police officers, higher police salaries, more and better education and tougher penalties, and many avoid – rightly – the public space because it can be dangerous. The housing market stands and weighs, and we wonder if it is a broken housing bubble we see in front of us or just a leprechaun concentrated in a few big cities. The lack of competence in the construction industry and the plan offices rises like a wall that we are fast approaching, and the planning activity stops completely while the construction is delayed and expensive. Large parts of our country feel sidelined because all the focus is on the city. Authorities undertake to introduce general wood stove bans. Rules are interpreted to eliminate the attractiveness that can be offered, namely proximity to nature and thus to species and biotopes – to be protected. It puts a brake on the development of areas, because it can actually be traces of human activity, such as agriculture and industry. Should we at that point debate and decide on architecture? Yes, we will – and perhaps that's why. Never is it much clearer than in times like these that good and thought-out architecture risks becoming the cream on the cake, while the wheels roll on faster and faster. There is an obvious risk that construction companies and property owners will forget about the people who will live, live and work there in search of investment aid, subsidies and rapid results. You forget that those who move in should want to stay – and for that matter also be able to move away from there. How the homes are designed, whether they are flexible or adapted, and whether they are accessible and affordable, we cannot assume that the construction companies or even the municipal plan offices always take responsibility for. What we have built and what we build must be perceived as attractive places where you feel safe and where you want to see your children grow up and go to school – and over time realize your own life dreams. It is also not just about housing. For example, there is a shortage of trained teachers. The worst is in the vulnerable areas, where the need for a good school is greatest. Of course, this is a question of teachers' salaries, pedagogy and education policy, but it is largely a question of learning environments – the school premises and their ability to promote children's imagination and give them places to study. Schools must be designed as good workplaces for all those who work there, not least the teachers and principals who do so professionally. Sweden is a large country, and diversity is certainly not just a matter of ethnicity and descent. We want to make the country hang together nationally, and locally we need meeting places where we can meet as equals, face to face, and watch, listen to and enjoy art and experiences that make us reflect and feel together despite our differences. Public baths, arenas for culture and sport, squares and bus stops – the public rooms are numerous, and the challenges are great if everyone is to be designed so that they are welcoming, safe and inclusive for everyone. Our country is also large geographically, and we are many who want to see it shrink with the expansion of infrastructure, nodes, travel centres and stops for short- and long-distance commuters. The places should be seen as safe and make both women and men want to travel together. When it comes to how green areas are designed and in harmony with public art and living environments, which are to be framed with light, colour and shape, we have both a heritage to take care of and a current situation to provide for those homes that are still in a planning process. What we usually mention as socially, economically and ecologically sustainable could be summed up with the words It is about choosing the climate-smart materials and the building methods that are resource efficient. The construction challenge we have will be an opportunity to create smart technical solutions so that we build energy efficiency into the houses. Making climate-smart material choices is basically about combining economic growth and good housing with the planet's survival. Architects have an important role to play in making this happen on human terms, Mr President. As a center party, my confidence in the business community is largely unlimited, but without high goals and regulations that stimulate and steer towards sustainability, we risk future generations. In this context, the role of the architect is crucial, Mr President, and the risk of allowing architecture to come in too late is much like curing pneumonia with Band-Aids – it is not certain that it works. However, with all this eloquent argumentation, the matter finally comes to the conclusion as to whether it is the objective of architecture that the government has proposed or whether it is what the Center Party and the other alliance parties have put forward as counter-proposals to be established. As Olof Lavesson says, a goal should not only take its starting point on the issues that are relevant for the day, but it should be sustainable and anchored in the current reality also for the foreseeable future. The fact that gender equality, segregation and sustainability are major challenges now is not something to be objected to, but what makes our proposal better than the government's is that the six implementation points that we agree on are in accordance with the investigation. Gestalted living environment – a new policy for architecture, form and design is called its proposal. We have also chosen to present the investigation's goal formulation as ours, because participation and inclusion – that which is covered by the word, is central and a consequence of living in a democracy in which we put the individual person at the centre. It is precisely participation that leads to sustainability and gender equality and that counteracts segregation. It is therefore difficult to understand the cleavage of the government parties in reshaping the goal. Instead, it opens the door to interpretations that risk affecting architecture. Whether it is Boverket, with or without its national architect, Arkdes, Riksantikvariebetet, Statens konstrådet or, for that matter, the administrators of one of the country's 290 municipalities who will make that interpretation, the various actors risk putting their emphasis on different aspects of the goal formulation, and thus they get in conflict with each other. I welcome the fact that there is no general and open conflict about the direction of architecture policy. We will be able to live with the goal decided by the Riksdag even after the change of power, which takes place after the summer. The important thing now is that we are taking architecture seriously into the construction role, so that it does not fall on him to rectify the shortcomings that entrepreneurs have neglected in retrospect because of pressured calculations, timetables and requirements to meet criteria for subsidies where there has been no scope for architecture. Mr President, I would like to It has been a pleasure to prepare this debate, and it is a pleasure to listen to what is being said. Pretty soon, we will return to dwelling on why there is not enough housing. With those words, I would like to endorse reservation No 1.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-72	Mr President, I would like to As mentioned earlier, this report has been dealt with by a complex committee. Politics also spans many areas of society at the same time: architecture, form and design. It concerns both urban planning and housing construction as well as cultural policy. On the one hand, of course, this is absolutely necessary and self-evident. It was the Alliance that once kicked off this work. It is good that we are now going to the finish, even if it was a little thinner than we had hoped. On the other hand, it is difficult to get things together that are usually handled in drainpipes, which unfortunately can be seen in this bill. Since I am one of those in the composite committee who usually works in the Committee on Culture, I will mostly talk about what has to do with culture in particular. There are others here who have already highlighted housing policy and architecture in a commendable way. Then we come to what is the main number of the bill, namely the objectives themselves. My colleagues have spoken in the past about the long list of legitimate objectives which, however, are far too complicated in the field of urban development policy. However, there is another problem that I think is greater than a problem with the planning and construction process. For me as a liberal, the freedom of culture is absolutely central, and architecture, form and design are above all culture. Culture must never become a tool for politicians to solve other problems, even if it concerns things that most of us in here and – I imagine – in society at large agree on is good and important. It can be about things like sustainability, equality and reduced segregation. If we open that door, we say that culture is the tool of politics for raising citizens. Then we also give this tool to others who want completely different things. It may sound legitimate, but it is not certain that the tool will be used for legitimate purposes. Architecture, form and design should not have to strike power with hair. It should have the freedom to challenge. It'll make us think free and big. It'll dare more. A well-designed armchair should be able to be just an armchair without contributing to reduced segregation. A dress should be able to be a well-designed dress without increasing equality. That is why we in the Alliance want a different goal – a short and core overall goal. The more instrumental parts are included as sub-objectives but not in a way that threatens the freedom of culture or puts a brake on efficient planning processes. What the investigation has proposed is excellent, and we think that the government could not have done anything else. Finally, I would like to make another point, namely that of the 1% target. It is a matter of concern to us Liberals. It is nice that it is included, but it is strange that the government has chosen to formulate it as that up to 1 per cent of the construction costs should be dedicated to artistic design. That sounds like a roof. Why does the government put it this way? It would be fantastic if a developer chose to spend 50 percent on design – it could be so exciting! And if some projects exceed 1%, it will also be easier to live with the fact that other projects do not reach all the way through. I would like to conclude by calling for the Alliance's joint reservation No 1. I look forward to the continued debate.
i-88GASn7GHB2ts3Fxh1St5c	Mr President, I would like to I would like to express my support for reservation No 1. Art and culture are so important to us humans that it is crucial to our well-being. What we are debating today – architecture, form and design – affects all people daily and is basically about quality of life. A sense of belonging and pride in the common environment helps to build a society that stays together. The construction of the million-dollar programme in the late 60s and early 70s was a necessary reform to reduce housing shortages, eliminate overcrowding and raise housing standards. At the same time, however, with today's eyes, it was a building of society that lacked much of what we are discussing today in the report 'Politics for the Living Environment'. There have been national objectives in the past, in particular the 1998 Futures Action Programme, which has long been indicative. But today's knowledge of this action programme and its application is limited. It is therefore 20 years since it was properly taken on this issue. What is happening now is actually an update and is based on an investigation that started in spring 2014. It is about new challenges and aims to increase the impact of architecture, form and design in society today. Nor should we forget the international perspective. The UN Resolution Agenda 2030 deals with sustainable development in economic, environmental and social terms. Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that the chairman of the Culture Committee, Olof Lavesson, and the chairman of the Civil Committee, my party colleague Caroline Szyber, took the initiative for a composite committee. These are issues that span several policy areas and authorities. Through this composite committee, we have raised the issues and taken a broader approach in Parliament. If we are to learn something from history, it is important that it is not just about building housing. It is about building communities and habitats. Good habitats provide security and togetherness. It gives life-values, if I'm going to sum it up in a single word. However, we Christian Democrats believe that some text in the government bill is more fine words than goals. Like the Alliance as a whole, we believe that the objective formulated by the investigator is correct but that the government's formulation of objectives does not hold up. The Government's objectives are formulated as follows: 中 Architecture, form and design should contribute to a sustainable, equal and less segregated society with carefully designed habitats, where everyone is given good opportunities to influence the development of the common environment. ..................................................... A goal should be short and core. The objective of architecture, like the objective of art, must be allowed to develop freely, as several speakers have done, and on their own terms. In addition, culture and art should never be used by politicians to solve problems, which the government seems to want to do. I'm surprised, because all art is supposed to be free. We believe that the objective proposed by the government is too complex and open to interpretation in order to function well in the field of civil engineering. This risks further hampering the already poorly functioning planning and construction process in the municipalities. The Swedish construction sector does not need more policy objectives and orientations to take into account, no matter how well-lawful they are. We therefore believe that it is important that an overall objective is short and core. The investigation's proposals are well considered and should be the goal that the Riksdag supports. On the other hand, we support the six points set out in the proposal as a way of achieving the objective. We therefore propose in our joint alliance reservation that the national objective should read as follows: The national objective of architectural, design and design policy is to strengthen the area's influence and thus contribute to shaping a long-term sustainable and well-designed living environment. ..................................................... Then there are the six points on how the objective is to be achieved, and we are therefore in agreement with the government. The national objective shall be achieved by: Finally, Mr President, one can, of course, have views on the design that is being carried out a little everywhere in our country. There are a number of examples of public art that caused people's storms. But it's about subjective assessments of different objects, and we have to leave it to the viewer to determine the value of art.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-100	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by calling for the proposal for a decision to be approved in the report by the Committee on Civil Affairs and Culture, CKRU1 Policy on the Designated Living Environment and thus rejecting all reservations. Mr President, I would like to Asking the question whether we want to build housing or build communities in such a debate can probably sound rather cliché, perhaps even a little silly. But basically I cannot ignore the fact that there is a lot on the subject, because we Social Democrats do not just want to build homes or apartments to live in. We also want to build so that people can live. We want you as a citizen of society to be proud of your home. We want you to be proud of your residential area and proud of your community. Then it is important to build right from the beginning, to have as an ambition that the contribution of architecture, form and design to the construction of society should be taken to the full benefit and joy of all. That is why I am here today to highlight the importance that we now have a new national objective for architecture, design and design policy. The Government's intention with politics and the proposal is to take a holistic approach to the work on the design of the living environment, while also highlighting a new integrated national approach to architecture, form and design. Mr President, I would like to We live in a changing time – a time that in many ways can be perceived as frightening and confusing, a time that many people do not recognize and that is not really grasped. We are reminded almost daily of the environmental threats and climate challenges we face. We receive regular reports on the threats to our democracy, as we know it. We have continued urbanisation, a fairly large flow of refugees, growing insecurity and rapid technological development that affects us as individuals but also society. But it's also a great time, because it's a time that gives us the opportunity to make change – an opportunity to rethink, think new and think ahead. Here we both social democrats and the government see how architecture, form and design can help us to help create better societies that can give us greater quality of life and security and where individuals can be involved in determining and shaping their own environment – this without violating the intrinsic value of these art forms. We aim to pursue a modern policy that combines the construction of housing with a stimulating external environment. Mr President, I would like to The new national objective of architecture, form and design policy has been heard several times, but I still choose to read it one more time: Architecture, form and design should contribute to a sustainable, equal and less segregated society with carefully shaped habitats, where everyone is given good opportunities to influence the development of the common environment. It is a goal with great ambitions. But as I mentioned, we are living at a time when we need to start thinking about building sustainable. This is not just about building environmentally smart, it is also about building communities where people stick together. The common alliance motion sees the objective as problematic, as we have heard many here, and this, above all, from two different viewpoints. One is that one is afraid that the goal is likely to make housing construction more difficult, and the other is that one believes that the government is reducing cultural policy to a tool for solving problems in society. Let me start by talking briefly about housing and politics, although these are really issues that I am not used to working with. Are we living in a society that is in great need of new housing? Yeah. Are we living in a time of segregated residential areas? Yeah. Are we living at a time when housing sometimes encounters various forms of obstacles? Yeah. But does this mean that we should build housing at any price? No. We must, of course, make sure to build right, think smartly about how our homes are built and create common spaces that can lead to conversations, meetings and togetherness. In addition, we and the Social Democratic-led government have made several important investments in housing construction. Among other things, during this term of office we have carried out the largest government housing investment in 20 years. We have also introduced investment aid for the construction of small rental apartments and student housing. And we have made changes to the Plan and Construction Act to make the plan process more effective. We and the government are aware of the need for housing and would therefore not implement a policy that puts a brake on housing policy. But we are not prepared to build housing at any cost. For us, it is more important to build right from the start than to realize in a few years' time that we built sprawling societies. When it comes to the intrinsic value of culture, it is important to understand that we as Social Democrats always put this first. Property comes first. However, this does not prevent culture from being useful in other areas as well. We are therefore absolutely convinced that we can safeguard the intrinsic value of architecture, form and design, while also promoting equality and creating inclusive societies. The intrinsic value and the contribution of culture to the construction of a society that creates equal people need not be a contradiction where we have to choose sides, but it can work in coexistence but where, of course, we as politicians have to acknowledge both sides. When it comes to specific architectural policy, I am absolutely convinced that, in addition to its own value, we need to talk about its social values, because when we talk about architectural policy, it is, of course, about housing, urban planning and more. It is clear that a well-thought-out policy for the form of living environment, where architecture has a self-evident role, can promote both artistic and other societal values. Back to the question, Mr President: do we want to build housing or do we want to build communities? For us Social Democrats, the answer is simple. It is therefore a matter of course for us to press the 'yes' button this afternoon.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-120	Mr President, I would like to Requesting a reply in this debate on the previous speech will be a bit like boiling soup on a nail, but I will still give it a try. In my speech, I referred to housing subsidies as a factor that risks pushing companies to speed up their timetables and to keep the costs of meeting the standard rents, which are set for participation in building subsidies. It is a factor that could possibly limit their space for thinking, thinking and being at the forefront in creating good and sustainable environments for people to live in. The housing policy being pursued today is Anna Wallentheim very much responsible for and has been responsible for it for some years. We've been wrestling with sustainability issues. Right now we are having a lot of discussions on these issues in the housing policy talks. For example, we celebrate the construction of wood because it is a sustainable building material. Other materials can be criticized on other grounds. But here it is a question of sustainability, and it is a very important thing to work with. Equality and equality in public spaces is an important issue to work with in creating safe environments and a less segregated society. The fact that we have inequality, a lack of sustainability and segregation in society is a consequence of the housing policy pursued by Anna Wallentheim's party. The fact that you want to include this as specific points in architecture policy must be a sign that the housing policy being pursued has failed.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-126	Mr President, I would like to I thank Ola Johansson for the questions. Housing policy is extremely important to us Social Democrats, because we live at a time when housing is a social right. It is also a policy that is important for welfare. Access to housing is a basic prerequisite for jobs, and we know that people today have to turn down jobs because there is no housing. There are also young people who cannot accept studies because of the lack of student housing. At the moment, we are in a situation where we hear a few different criticisms: on the one hand, that we have introduced housing subsidies that make the construction process go too fast and are ill-considered; on the other hand, that we have objectives that are at risk of hindering construction. Since 2017, the government has invested more than SEK 6 billion in housing construction. To be honest, it is extremely important that we spend money on building, and 6 billion in a year is more than the alliance government spent throughout the last parliamentary term. Here we have a problem and one of the reasons why we do not have enough housing today. We therefore need to build more housing. We need to build small cheap rentals and student housing. But that doesn't mean we're gonna build bad housing. However, this must always be opposed to the fact that we must also build sustainable and make external environments that are stimulating for people. Somewhere you have to make up your mind. Are we building too fast and too bad, or are we doing so that it is not built at all?
i-5ed94879815bfa43-132	Mr President, I would like to Architecture is the client's responsibility. We shape a policy that provides long-term sustainable conditions for architects and their contribution to the community building we agree on. It is a cost that is ultimately taken by the developer as an investment and that then the residents by having the home granted to them pay and thereby contribute to future generations. It is characteristic that part of the housing market receives substantial billion-dollar subsidies, while other parts of the housing market do not. There are therefore different conditions for operators in this market to be able to mate and manage their construction depending on whether they have social housing or not. One can always wonder whether 6 billion, 5.2 billion or how much it is could be better used. In her reply, Anna Wallentheim describes the failure of current housing policy. People are forced to turn down jobs, young people are forced to turn down places to study, mobility in the housing market is poor and housing construction is reduced when it needs to increase. It is commendable that the Social Democrats put their finger on this failure and that in their goal formulation they also manifest this failure by telling afterwards that that is what they should have done. It's like throwing in the yeast after the dough.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-136	Mr President, I would like to I thank Ola Johansson. I think I'm grateful for the line. We have sat for a term of office and have not even had a budget of our own for the entire term of office, but only three budgets. The reason for the housing problem is the eight years of the Alliance in government. Now we are trying to solve this through the biggest investment in government housing and through subsidies. Mr President, I would like to One of the most important things for me is that the young people sitting in the stands should be able to get a first place to live. To be able to put the key in the door and go in and say But just as you say, Ola Johansson, it is also important that we build your sustainable communities where we can have meetings and community. This proposal has been presented by three ministers in three different departments. I believe that we must trust that professionals from such a wide range of sectors know what they are talking about. Therefore, we do not risk making the construction process more difficult, and we are also making efforts to enable young people to get their first home.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-141	Mr President, I would like to Finally, there is a political proposal that gives the industry the opportunity to build with quality. This is how Sweden's Architects spoke after the government presented the bill that we are debating, Politik för utvecklad living environment. Climate change, urbanisation, technological development and ideals for how we want to live and live place new demands on how our societies are designed. The government therefore wants to introduce a new national objective for architecture, design and design policy. The Committee on Civil and Cultural Affairs proposes that the Parliament say yes to the Government's proposal, and I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. The purpose of the proposal is for architecture, form and design to characterise several policy areas and contribute to good environments for people to live in. It can be about building sustainable and aesthetically rather than with short-term economic solutions and that public environments are designed to be accessible to all. Boverket also receives a collective national responsibility for the area of architecture and the natural environment. We are in the midst of today's great building of society. There are currently a record number of homes being built, and hopefully we will see new high-speed trains in the foreseeable future. Everything we plan for and build today will shape the society we and future generations will live in for centuries to come. Building new homes is good. The emergence of new areas, perhaps even new cities, is necessary in a growing country. For me as the Green Party's spokesperson on housing policy, housing policy is not just about how many new homes we build, but about the planning of our future societies. Like many of my committee colleagues, I am pleased that it is a complex committee that has dealt with these issues. It has given the debate a different dimension to what we usually have when we debate housing policy in the Civil Committee. I would therefore like to thank the chairmen of both committees for this initiative. I usually mention three challenges in the field of civil engineering, and I will do so even today. The first is the climate challenge. Today, the construction sector accounts for one fifth of Sweden's negative climate impact. The second is the cost challenge. How should we ensure that those who do not have a home can afford to ask for what is being built? The third is the quality challenge, which this proposal is very much about. We must not compromise on the quality of what is being built today, because it will last a hundred years. Architecture, form and design play a crucial role here. It is about how we place the houses and how the space between them is designed. It is about how people are expected to move and then actually move in the areas. It is about meeting places, green lungs and how people get to and from these areas. It's about how the stormwater is handled. It is about how the natural light penetrates and how the added light creates different environments. It is about how the wind blows around the corner of the house and how deer, hares and birds continue to live and move in the areas. It's about how people thrive, meet and live. Mr President, I would like to All these issues need to be analysed and need solutions. It is about the clash between built environment and nature and between existing and new residents. We take too often for granted that these challenges will only solve themselves and that it will not cost anything. But that's not the case. It is thanks to the architects and social planners who, every day, sometimes with blood, sweat and tears, manage to solve these challenges, even when the budget is tightened and the political will sometimes pulls in a completely different direction. I would therefore like to say thank you to those of you who are involved in your profession every day in creating our future sustainable society. Now, in politics with today's debate and decisions, we want to give you the right conditions to do what you are best at. Political will is needed for this. The bill, which we are dealing with today, is about political will. And here we are quite in agreement. The most important thing that we can do is to provide the social construction sector with long-term rules of play and not abrupt caste and change. What we are debating is just the start of a work that must now continue at local, regional and national level. The proposal is developed in close cooperation with the industry and where the Minister for Culture, the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Housing together goes out and says that you need to work comprehensively with questions for a formed living environment. The Government stresses the importance of a life-cycle perspective in its ambition to create good habitats for people to live in, while taking into account the efficient use of natural and societal resources. The government also makes clear proposals on how to strengthen and promote the structure of responsibility, so that the qualities of the natural environment are even better. The government also believes that environmental threats and climate change are increasingly being brought to light. It is therefore even more urgent that this policy be adopted in Parliament. The national targets have been mentioned here. That's where we have different entrances. The Centre Party's Ola Johansson argued that the targets should be valid for a long time. I had wished, Ola Johansson, that we had succeeded in remedying both gender equality challenges and segregation within a very short time. I think that challenge is greater than that. That's why I'm glad they're in the government's case. Somewhere in the debate, it sounds like the national goals are to govern the practice of each individual architect. It's not like that. National targets developed by the government guide the government's initiative in the work on the design of living environment. We give assignments to our authorities who will work to achieve the goals we set. That is the case with all the objectives set by the government. It is about the work that the state is doing to send a signal, but we are certainly not in and poking at the activities of individual practitioners. The most important thing is to give the trained people the mandate they need. This is particularly true at municipal level. That is where the decisions are made. Politicians will ensure that they give mandates to their employees and consultants working on these issues. Mr President, I would like to What would be the world without its architect, our master who will create the sustainable societies of the future? We have come to the conclusion that a national architect is needed. I want to say what the Swedish Architects said very nicely: In Sweden, we have prosecutors, auditors, national librarian and national antiquarie. It is entirely in line with the fact that we also have a national architect. Mr President, I would like to This is just the beginning. At the moment, many processes are under way to improve and streamline the planning process we have and above all with the help of the opportunities of digitalisation. There is currently extensive work on a complete review of Boverket's building regulations. As a construction engineer and former administrator in the municipality, I have always felt that the eternal political chitchat about changing the Planning and Construction Act should instead be about what the government is doing right now: a review of Boverket's building regulations, the rules that actually govern how what we build becomes. It is extremely important that we do this and that architecture supports the development of the quality of what is being built. This government has shown that we are taking on the challenge of building the sustainable society of the future and that we want to give society builders in our country the right tools and the right support. Buildings, parks, roads, parking spaces, the rooms between the houses and their meeting places are rarely things that just occur or come about by chance. It is good architecture and good work that makes our habitats sustainable for us as well as for our children and grandchildren. Architecture will have a larger, earlier and clearer role in the entire urban construction process.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-163	Mr President, I would like to In this election movement, much has so far been said about security, and from a left-wing partisan perspective we believe that safe societies are built by safe people and not primarily by more police officers or higher penalties, although in some cases this may be necessary. It can be about the security of knowing that the money is enough for food all month, that I have a job to go to on Monday or that the teachers have time for me at school. It may also be that we know each other in my neighborhood. We meet at the well thought-out farm where children as old can thrive and find activities and that we have access to meeting places indoors for associations and cultural activities. We have walking paths and communications that are planned for both children and adults, for both women's and men's safety. There are premises for business, shops and public service close by. Then people in my residential area move much of the day, and security increases. There will be workplaces in the residential area, and more people will be able to connect with the labour market. The debate over housing construction in recent years has focused heavily on how we can produce the large amount of housing needed to build away the housing shortage, and that has been very important. It is no wonder that this debate has had to be conducted in view of the state's backwardness in housing policy over the last few decades. But we're not just going to build houses – which several speakers before me have been into – but we're going to create communities with places that become people's homes and environments where generations are going to be able to live a good life. Then we must for a moment lift our eyes from the technicalities of the interest rebates and the ROT grants and think about what is required of our local environment in order for people to feel good in their everyday lives. It is for people that we plan, design and embellish our societies. We should not have to choose between cheap, fast and one-off, on the one hand, and expensive but with high artistic and architectural quality on the other. Therefore, architecture, design and form policies need to go hand in hand with the policy of urban planning with its wide scope. That is why today's proposal is an important step in the right direction. It is not very comprehensive – as someone pointed out here – and we see that it will need to be complemented by more concrete proposals in the future, but it is a good start for a discussion on how to create sustainable habitats. We have heard previous speakers present their objections, and I can partly agree with the comments made by Olof Lavesson and his fellow motionaries that architecture, form and design should not be reduced to tools to achieve different political objectives. Artistic expressions of different kinds should be allowed even if they do not directly lead to reduced segregation or increased public health. But we must not be so worried about the issue that we do not even dare to say that design and architecture actually create different emotions. It can create meetings and give birth to new thoughts, and therefore it must be clearly on the agenda when planning our societies. If we do not recognise that art and culture have important consequential effects, there is also no reason to advocate the 1% rule, which I know we are many parties that want to highlight. This brings the Left Party to the conclusion that the Government's proposal is a positive objective. We see, of course, that a lot of other things are also recording. Of course, only the right architecture cannot counter segregation and create equality, but we must also tap into left-wing economic policies that redistribute resources in society. If people with different backgrounds and different incomes are to be able to live side by side, the issue of tenure forms and rental levels is obviously central. On the Left side, we also want to raise the finger of warning for some proposals that over the years have been discussed about simplifications in the building permit process and detailed planning management. We believe that they risk de facto undermining this overall objective. We are therefore saying that we need to be careful that we do not rationalise so much when many homes are to be developed that the practical process reduces the scope for long-term thinking and sustainability, so that it completely disappears from the agenda. Nor must it be so fast that the inhabitants do not have time for it. A longer process may be required to ensure that everyone agrees with what is proposed. The municipality may need to spend time explaining to the public how to participate and influence. People should also be given the chance to organize themselves. City planning really engages. We can look up any local newspaper and find an angry sender or a story about angry neighbors. It is therefore important that democracy issues are raised in the goal, that the public should be involved. In conclusion, I note that the many different aspects of social planning can be difficult to combine. Sometimes there will be conflict of interests, and difficult trade-offs will have to be made. I don't think this bill solves all those issues, but it's a good first step. I hope that this is the starting point rather than the end of the debate on how architecture, design and form can help create good habitats. In doing so, I call for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-180	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating architecture, form and design in residential environments, housing and the surrounding environment. Both the government and the Alliance have moved in the opposite direction than what the bill is talking about. We have seen many proposals – rushed and desperate – aimed at bringing the housing shortage to order in Sweden. It is going in the opposite direction than what the government parties and the Alliance are talking about today. These are fixed-term building permits up to 15 years in which exceptions can be made to the requirements of the Planning and Construction Act. We see emerging modular housing, simpler housing and the like to be included in this. These are proposals that will lead to new areas of exclusion, and they are a consequence of the irresponsible migration policy that we have seen for very many years. The continuing focus of migration policy continues. The Government and the Alliance are behind the EBO legislation and the law of instruction that has created enormous overcrowding throughout Sweden, which is absolutely part of the living environment that we are discussing today. We see that we are moving in the opposite direction and rather restrict the influence of citizens rather than increasing what the Swedish Democrats are proposing in a follow-up motion and in other proposals. Mr Emilsson has already explained our policy in this area very well, and I would like to relate to what he was talking about. I want to show you what is needed to keep everything together and who is going to take responsibility and implement much of what the government is putting forward in its bill today. We believe that the Government's proposal that the monitoring and coordination responsibility, which will be shared between the State Centre for Architecture and Design and Boverket, will rather make for a significant risk of steep pipes and duplication of work. The Swedish Democrats believe that the main responsibility should be placed on Boverket to implement this. Someone should be the principal and ensure that much of the cultural policy that we want to implement can be implemented. We have been talking about this for many years, but it has not had the impact that we have hoped for. The Swedish Democrats also want a National Architects Unit to be set up at Boverket. One should be investigated in order to get a national reference point for municipalities to be able to relate to. Aesthetics and quality are interpretable and diffuse concepts, but they are important to raise in this discussion. We need to create a housing building and a housing environment that creates greater satisfaction for all residents. This is something that affects everyone to a very large extent. We in the Swedish Democrats believe that you need to think about what the city centres in the municipalities look like and create a pride for the municipality you belong to. This can be done by building on the cultural heritage of many municipalities. Many of us have the experience of sliding into a municipality with the train or car or in other ways and seeing millions of programme areas or other more ill-considered construction projects that create a false picture of the entire municipality. It also becomes part of each individual's perception of their environment and surroundings. In this context, it is particularly important to create citizens' influence in these urban areas. This will make it possible to build a more sustainable and accepted form of living and living environment for citizens. Hopefully this also creates fewer conflicts in various construction projects. It is important to build a citizen's influence and cultural history into the construction process. However, the security aspect must also be included. We must not build more exclusion areas, such as fixed-term building permits and the million-dollar programmes of the past. We know that blue light personnel are exposed because of, among other things, how residential areas are designed. It is therefore extremely important to include the security aspect when discussing architecture, form and design objectives. It is also necessary to build more familiar areas with, for example, farms that create a sense of community in the residential area and in society at large. It is important to build up society and the inhabitants and create places where you can meet to get the solidarity that has been so strong in our country. In many respects, it is now lost with the long-standing policies. Housing policy, cultural environments and the design of residential areas are important elements for us to be able to build on and counteract the fragmentation of society. In order to link all this together, municipalities need support to succeed in implementing what the Swedish Democrats highlight as important in the area of housing policy and cultural policy. We have put forward a series of proposals which we believe can make it possible to succeed. It's all about
i-5ed94879815bfa43-196	中 to give Boverket the main responsibility 中 that a national architect unit is placed under the Boverket
i-5ed94879815bfa43-199	Citizens' involvement could, in the long run, mean that hopefully we see fewer appeals and to a greater extent see the need and importance of the societies we build and where we can all agree. Mr President, I would like to Like Aron Emilsson, for time to come, I only call for reservations 2 and 5.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-200	Mr President, I would like to It is exciting to get other arenas to debate housing policy on than the traditional, Roger Hedlund. Sometimes you wonder if the Swedish Democrats want to increase housing construction in the first place. When you talk about citizen influence, it might sound good. It sounds a bit like when we say that the issues of influence are important. But when Roger Hedlund talks about citizen influence, I cannot help but think about what his fellow party member Aron Emilsson said during his speech. Then it sounded like he celebrated the right to appeal and that that right was important to take into account. I may have a bit of a bad memory but I do not often hear Roger Hedlund mention the right and the opportunity to appeal as an important reform in the area of housing policy. He usually remains silent when we in the other parties believe that the right to appeal is something that should be reserved to those who are owners of a matter. If people constantly appeal only to delay implementation, we might investigate the possibility of charging appeals. Around us in the country, not least in the highlands of Småland, there are many construction companies that build sustainable wooden houses. These companies are investing heavily in the production line in order to build serially manufactured houses in a climate-smart way. They create both jobs and opportunities for people to live. It is easy to get the impression that the Swedish Democrats and Roger Hedlund do not see this development as a positive development. Is it in the interest of the Swedish Democrats that housing is available to people at all? Are not people's chances of living the most important contribution to the construction of society? Why should we build a society if there aren't people in it?
i-5ed94879815bfa43-205	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ola Johansson, for your line on my post! The possibility of appeal is a fundamental prerequisite in a society, at least I think. This applies to the housing policy of the Swedish Democrats, and I do not know whether the Centre Party and the Alliance have a different opinion on it. Perhaps you would like to remove the possibility of appeal when you feel that housing construction does not match what conditions have been given? We hope that our proposal on civic participation will mean that fewer appeals are made against housing construction because there has already been a civil dialogue at the beginning. These should be done to a greater extent than they are today. Many conflicts, we believe, are due to the fact that the citizens have not been brought with them from the outset to the extent that we are proposing. I do not believe that our proposals would in any way delay the process. Rather, in the long run, it would speed up the construction process for new housing. I do not think we agree very much on this point. I know that the Alliance and the Center Party are putting forward very many proposals that limit the influence of citizens. This applies, for example, to temporary building permits which derogate from the PBL which restricts the influence of citizens. Other proposals concern, for example, the construction of facilities for refugee housing. It removes the opportunity for citizens to influence completely. All of a sudden you can have housing in the form of a refugee camp or similar next to your house without being able to influence at all. We from the Swedish Democrats do not want to see this direction in the area of housing policy. That is quite correct, Ola Johansson.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-211	Mr President, I would like to What I wanted to point out in my speech is what is the major obstacle to housing construction today. We are now in a debate on housing policy, but I see that architecture issues are well connected with it. There is a shortage of buildable land, and once there is land to build, there is also an appeal process. As Roger Hedlund says, this is an important civil right, but it is used in a way that is often perceived to be questionable from a practical point of view on housing construction. There is a tendency to look only at the current situation and not at the future. When we talk about architecture in a long-term perspective, it is not just about the people who are expected to live in a place at the moment or even for a shorter period, if it is temporary housing that we are talking about, but it is about a long-term approach to construction. The social environments that we create should enable people to want to move into but also to live in. You should also be able to move out of there voluntarily. What I see as a major concern is that the rhetoric of the Swedish Democrats can be a barrier to the very creative housing companies that we have throughout the country and which now see as their big task to help and help solve a housing crisis that is one of the biggest and most difficult that we have had for a very long time. The attitude of the Swedish democrats towards housing construction is a stop and a no and that appeal is something that we should encourage. This may hinder the desired development.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-214	Mr President, I would like to We do not share the picture of the biggest problems in housing construction in Sweden today. First, we have to go back to why we have a housing crisis in Sweden today. We are talking about having a forward view on the housing market and in housing construction. How can we have it when we support the migration policy which, in many ways, means that we are in the situation that we have today? We have to start there before criticising other areas. Then I would like to point out that one major reason why it is difficult to find housing quickly is that the skills of the officials and trained people who are going to ensure that these processes are speeded up have major shortcomings today. Then, of course, one can also point to appeals as part of the process. But there are many other ranks to work with. Municipalities need a lot of support in their housing construction. The Swedish Democrats have proposed regional housing planning, where the regions should be able to provide support to municipalities, especially the smaller commuting municipalities, so that more housing can be found in the areas from which it would be possible to commute to a metropolitan region. It would also be good if more smaller construction companies could be involved in the construction in Sweden. Today, it is usually one out of three four large construction companies that win the procurements in the municipalities, and it is hardly anything that promotes more construction companies being able to come forward and help reduce the lead processes. There is a need for more people to be involved in building in Sweden today. There we have major problems with housing construction in Sweden. It is clear that appeals are part of the process, but we do not see a problem on the part of the Swedish Democrats in involving citizens in the decision-making process. This is especially true when we talk about cultural environments, residential environments and architecture. I'm going to let the citizens be there. Citizens' involvement is important.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-218	Mr President, I would like to Population records are the single most important source of information at individual level and must therefore be secured now and in the future. The population register is the very basis for a large number of rights and obligations for citizens of Sweden. In the welfare systems, in particular, the population register is a basic foundation. Having taken note of the Swedish National Audit Office's report, I can conclude that there are extensive needs for improvement within the Swedish Tax Agency. The quality of population records simply does not meet the high standards that must be imposed and applied. The Swedish National Audit Office highlights certain issues. Let me take some samples from their observations. It is noted that work is not currently carried out in an effective manner and that there is largely no knowledge of the frequency of errors and of the consequences that arise in society as a result of the errors. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that the knowledge about the quality of population accounts is low and that there is a lack of a picture of the general level of quality in population accounts and the direction in which it develops. Mr President, I would like to Already when I took note of the Swedish Tax Agency's internal report last spring, the signals were directly worrying. The Swedish Tax Agency noted that the deficiencies in internal governance meant that the work could not operate efficiently in accordance with the requirements of the Authority Regulation. Mr President, I would like to It is worth recalling that population registers have many dimensions, from the protection of personal data to surveying and genealogy. Since the publication of church books, Swedish censuses have been characterised by four basic dimensions: what, who, when and where. It has been possible to identify what happened, who it happened, when it happened and where it happened. The latter has historically been a very important ingredient, defined on several different levels: cottage, farm, village, parish, county, property, street address, neighborhood and parish. Modern censuses, now managed by the Swedish Tax Agency, seem to have lost important qualities and the precision previously found in birth, marriage and death books, for example. As far as geographical precision is concerned, quality has deteriorated considerably. In other words, Mr President, we have a great deal of work ahead of us to secure a population register with the quality that can be expected. For a long time, extensive development work has been going on at the Swedish Tax Agency to improve the quality of public records. The internal audit report of October 2017 also made clear recommendations. Much of the criticism that the Swedish National Audit Office points to was therefore already known matter at the Swedish Tax Agency. But the Swedish National Audit Office's report has an important role to play. It is the clear signal that work cannot go fast enough that is the key. Here the government has a great responsibility to ensure the result we can expect. The government now refers, among other things, to regulatory letters for the current year in terms of governance towards more quality. Here, during the next parliamentary year, the Tax Committee has important work: to follow closely what is going on. Mr President, I would like to As I have mentioned, the population accounts contain many different aspects. There are measures to strengthen the protection of personal data of threatened and persecuted persons. The importance of seeing the seriousness of the situation of vulnerable persons has been further strengthened with the Swedish Transport Agency's handling of sensitive IT data. We can note that the Agency's management created an increased risk of, among other things, unauthorised use of driver identity documents. This cannot be acceptable in Sweden. Again: Sweden is a country of registers. However, the quality of the registers rests ultimately on citizens' confidence in the systems and the way in which data are processed. Right now we can read in social media and in newspapers about all GDPR emails that are being sent out. This is a result of the new EU Data Protection Regulation. We notice for ourselves how our inboxes flow over by emails with that orientation. It has become a topic of conversation for many. It is not least because of all the emails that fill in inboxes with questions if you want to continue subscribing to newsletters and so on. For me it is a picture of how we in Sweden as citizens look at registers of different kinds. It is not something that just goes unnoticed, as it may in many other countries. The implementation of GDPR seems to have gone completely out of control. I may draw too rapid and far-reaching conclusions. But there is no reason to over-implement EU rules in Sweden that may only lead to increased costs and inconvenience for citizens and businesses. The Data Protection Authority should probably review its regulations and make it easier, of course with respect for the privacy of individuals and EU legislation. Mr President, I would like to It is soon three years since the alliance government's established investigation into enhanced protection of the personal data of threatened and persecuted persons left its report. The Parliament has not yet been reached by any proposal. I can only say with some frustration that the investigation seems to be stuck in the Government Office. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to endorse the Alliance's reservation No 6 in report No 19.
i-G9WSki88NKuBvU32XpLcjV	Mr President, I would like to This debate concerns two reports, Sku16 and Sku19, and deals with the National Audit Office's review report on population accounts, increased protection for threatened and persecuted persons and some measures to improve the quality of population accounts. The latter is a proposal in a government proposal. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 2 and 6 in Sku19. The population accounts form the basis for a wide range of government decisions that usually aim to allocate society's resources to the municipalities from the state as well as to the individual who has access to public services and benefits. It is therefore a question of the correct data having to be registered with the Swedish Tax Agency because the data are of great importance for different rights and obligations in society. It is therefore of the utmost importance that the quality of population records be maintained. This is why the Swedish National Audit Office's review report is extremely worrying, and hence our special opinion in Sku16. In its report RiR 2017:23, the Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the Swedish Tax Agency's work to ensure that the data on residence, identity and more are correct. The Swedish National Audit Office's overall conclusion is worrying because the audit shows that the Swedish Tax Agency's work to maintain the quality of the population accounts is not carried out effectively. Work on investigating intelligence needs to be developed. Today, too few intelligences are being investigated. There is a technology solution where authorities can join to report notifications that have emerged, but so far only CSN is connected. The Swedish Enforcement Authority believes that the socio-economic benefits of the electronic platform should be taken into account not least by the Swedish Tax Agency. It should therefore make it easier for other authorities to join. There's a lot to do here. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish National Audit Office recommends that the Government urgently continue to work on various measures, including the proposals regarding population records contained in the report from the Report on organised and systematic financial crime against welfare, SOU 2017:37. Some of the proposals in that study are contained in the proposal, but the quality work must continue. The Government agrees with the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment that it is serious that there are shortcomings in the Swedish Tax Agency's quality work, but believes that development work is now under way. The Tax Agency's register quality and risk management, as well as method development in the population accounts, shall be reported in the annual performance report through assignments in the regulation letter. We will follow this carefully from a moderate point of view. There are various measures to be taken by society when someone's identity or residence address needs to be protected. It is a great trauma to live under such pressure and insecurity. People who live with protected personal data and also their relatives have a very vulnerable situation. Therefore, society must ensure these people's security and the ability to function in everyday life as far as possible. Unfortunately, there are countless stories that identities and housing addresses have been disclosed by authorities that have failed in the exercise of their authority. This applies, for example, in schools when pupils have their place of residence cleared through school photos, social services that have cleared users with protected identity and victims who have their identity revealed through, for example, the thoughtlessness of the district court. Last summer the IT scandal came at the Swedish Transport Agency, which has direct bearing on protected information. Many people have protected addresses and identities because of their position or professional role. With the IT scandal today, these people and their relatives also live with a concern and uncertainty about their addresses and personal data have been disclosed. That uncertainty is common to many today. I would have liked the report to have included clear measures to ensure that protected personal data can be ensured in the institutions of society that are part of people's everyday lives, such as health care, school and care. It is good that the bill proposes amendments to a number of laws such as the Health Care Act, the Social Services Act and the School Act. But how is it ensured that the various laws of this vulnerable group are implemented so that the personal data are not disclosed? That's not in the bill. In addition to living with constant fear, the situation often has enormous consequences for the individual and loved ones. This is borne out by the women's shelters in particular. Hopefully, the GDPR may further protect these people. But the Swedish Data Protection Authority disagrees. The General Data Protection Regulation does not cover everything. It therefore considers that a separate law would be an important support for each school. These are difficult boundaries between the student's integrity and the school's mission, the authority writes in its referral. The Alliance government took several initiatives to strengthen the protection of personal data of threatened and persecuted persons. On 1 July 2014, a number of legislative amendments were introduced on closer cooperation between authorities and enhanced confidentiality in certain cases. The Alliance felt that protection for threatened and persecuted persons needed to be strengthened. This is why, in the summer of 2014, an investigation was launched into increased security for threatened and persecuted persons. The investigation was completed in 2015. I and others have pushed for Parliament to get the proposals in the report for decision, which we are finally getting today. Mr President, I would like to The government has now taken this issue seriously. But much more is needed. In the bill, Mr Ma n is proposing some necessary reinforcements for those who are forced to live with protected identity, and we very much welcome that. It is a question, for example, of depreciation being referred to as protected population records and of not having to reconsider it as often as it is done today. People living with protected identity bear witness to the fact that any reconsideration gives rise to enormous concern. Am I going to keep my protection, or am I not going to get it? This will make it safer for those who are depreciated, as it is said today. It will not have to be reconsidered in the same way as today. What we lack in the bill is about this that anyone can register at someone else's address. The government hasn't got to grips with this bill. These are huge problems for the people who are affected. It could be a matter of someone who keeps a folk register, let's say, my address and who has big debts with the bailiff and perhaps carries out criminal activities. I'm not supposed to know that someone's registered at my address. We would have liked to see a proposal for action against this – hence the reservation that we have and which I have asked for. Mr President, I would like to The purpose of the bill is extremely good. There's a lot of good things in there. However, I am concerned that efforts will not continue to be made to ensure that those who live under threat will have even more security and security when it comes to the non-disclosure of their identities. Tomorrow, the new comprehensive EU Data Protection Regulation will begin to apply. There will then be tougher requirements for the processing of personal data by other municipalities. This also means that the current Personal Data Act will be replaced. Hopefully this will make authorities, schools etcetera pay attention to the problem and become more knowledgeable in this problem.
i-67ZWSV6HYynbttvmUzVq2L	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for approval of the reservation contained in SkU16 and for reservation No 8 in SkU19. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the Swedish Tax Agency's efforts to maintain the quality of civil accounts. It is about the work to ensure that information on residence and identity is accurate. The Swedish National Audit Office's conclusion is that the Swedish Tax Agency's work to maintain the quality of population records is currently not carried out in an effective manner. In view of this, the Swedish National Audit Office has made a number of proposals for measures to overcome this. The census is, and has long been, a function that helps to create order and structure in society. With censuses under the Swedish Church, we were all in a community within the same nation with somewhat the same basic values. We will not return to such a system in the near future, but it is worth remembering how different it once looked. More recently, immigration policy has contributed not least to the fact that more and more people are not registered – and sometimes registered in the wrong place – but live in shadow societies. It is parallel communities where authorities do not have a fair list of who is in the country, where they are located or whether they are in the country at all. In addition, many have immigrated with very different basic values than those on which our Swedish majority society is based. The ultimate expression of this has begun to be seen now, when, for example, Islamic prayer eutrope has begun to be applied with the message of proclaiming that in the area in question Islam prevails and that Islamists have taken over the area. This means that they are not part of Sweden culturally. Other problems with people's records that have been noticed are when a person realizes that someone else, known or unknown, has suddenly booked themselves at one's address without one's permission and initially also without one's knowledge. This may have been because the person who has illegally registered himself may have seen a practical benefit for himself, but it may also have been used for criminal purposes. For example, if you can show a lock company that you are registered at a certain address and claim that you have locked yourself out, you can get the lock forced, and thus the break-in is committed. The Government has put forward some proposals for measures, including the possibility of de-registration of false identities, the possibility of verification visits and the reintroduction of the classification of accounting offences. That's great. However, I believe that more action should be taken in this direction in order to remedy the problems of completely free censuses. For example, it would be necessary to introduce an additional step with the approval of the owner of the property, the owner of the dwelling or the equivalent on the registration of the population. If a person tries to register at an address where he or she does not have a rental contract or a share in the right-of-occupancy association, he or she must be notified before any new person is registered there. The IRS should send out a consignment to the property owner so that he is informed that someone has registered at the address. Anyone who is a tenant in a rental apartment and wants to rent out a room should be able to apply for this from the property owner. When both tenants and property owners have given approval, the person can be given the right to register there. It is simply a matter of all Swedes always being able to feel safe that their home is their castle and that no unknown person should be able to register freely at their address. The Government's proposal 145 proposes measures to improve and increase the protection of threatened and persecuted persons. It is not entirely unimportant in view of the social development we are currently seeing. The Government proposes, among other things, protected population records that should be able to be made in a place other than where you live. It is also proposed to increase the confidentiality of data on persons with protected public records who are parties to proceedings and cases with authorities and courts. This is a good thing. The Swedish Democrats have therefore endorsed the main features of the bill. With regard to identification, you can have a passport, ID card, national ID card or a driving licence in Sweden. A common ID card issued by the Swedish Tax Agency is only valid within Sweden's borders as it does not state nationality on the ID card. The national ID card is issued to the police and seen as a valuable document like a passport. Although passport control only takes place in exceptional cases within the EU, one must be able to legitimise oneself during a stay abroad. The passport and the national identity card are then the only valid documents proving identity and citizenship. Travelling within the Nordic countries does not require a passport, but you should still have a licence to prove your identity. As it works at national level and within the Schengen area to identify with a national identity card, we should begin to move in the direction that such identity cards should be more standard in the area of driving licences, for example – hence my request for approval of reservation No 8 in report No 19.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-264	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by giving a thought to the battered staff at the pizzeria Titanic in Ludvika. There must be more of us who stand up to Nazism and racism. What happened there has a direct connection to what we are discussing here today. We in the Left Party are very much in favour of the report and the proposal aimed at improving and increasing the protection of threatened and persecuted persons. Many of us who have been, and are still, active in the public sphere know exactly what it means to experience the terrible hatred and threat that we and our families face every day. The feeling of not being safe in one's own home, city and country is terrible. The feeling of never being able to relax in the public space because of the fear of being attacked by Nazis or racists on the street or in one's own home is terrible. I get letters and calls that contain the worst and most detailed descriptions of how a person unknown to me wants to hurt me or deprive me of my life just because I am a black/Afro-Swedish man who is active in politics and in the public conversation. I am well aware of this. I experience that every day. Mr President, I would like to Threats, hatred and persecution affect many different groups. This applies not least to women, who are most often victims of patriarchal violence and violence in close relationship. It affects politicians, journalists, anti-racists, feminists, LGBT people, Muslims, Jews and so on. It is sometimes used as a means to incite serious fear in an individual, population or ethnic group with the aim of refraining from participating in the democratic dialogue. A good example is that Nazis and racists are unfortunately something completely normalized in Swedish society. In my opinion, this is the greatest threat to democracy in Sweden today. The Left Party believes that the proposal is an important step forward in the efforts to maintain democracy in Sweden. It is extremely welcome that, according to the proposal, the Swedish Tax Agency should provide support to those who have been admitted to protected civil records so that protection can be maintained and that the confidentiality of data on persons with protected public records that are parties to the proceedings and proceedings of all authorities and courts should be strengthened. Stronger protection of personal data helps to prevent men's violence against women and has a positive impact on gender equality, but it can also enable many people who today reluctantly refrain from participating in the democratic and public dialogue to dare to take that step. Mr President, I would like to The proposal also proposes some measures aimed at improving the quality of population records. The Tax Agency shall be given the opportunity to de-register false identities from the population register and to carry out verification visits to verify a person's residence. Census offences are re-introduced. Punishment takes place when a person intentionally provides incorrect information as a basis for decisions on public records or fails to comply with his obligation to notify and the measure endangers evidence. It shall also be possible to be convicted of serious civil records offences. Data on the names, social security numbers, address, marital status and other family relationships of individuals are used by a large number of authorities as a basis for their activities. The basic collection and registration of the personal data used in society is largely carried out by the Swedish Tax Agency and is then transferred to society in different ways. Data from the population register is disseminated electronically through the Tax Agency's system to primarily authorities and through the State's personal address register to other parts of society. Information on persons is also provided between other authorities, between private organisations and between authorities and private organisations. Data recorded in the population register are normally considered harmless and are therefore, as a general rule, public. However, in some cases the dissemination of information about a person may cause a great deal of trouble. Persons exposed to threats and persecution may need to protect their personal data, and it is important in such situations that there are effective measures to be taken to make it possible. Mr President, I would like to The proposal also proposes some measures relating to personal identity numbers and coordination numbers. All persons registered in Sweden are assigned a personal identity number as an identifier. The person who once received a social security number will keep the same number for life. The personal identity number was introduced in 1947 and then as a birth-time system plus a three-digit birth number. An amendment was made in 1967 to include a check digit as a fourth digit in the personal identification number. The personal identity number indicates, on the one hand, the person's birth time and, on the other hand, a birth number and a check digit. The only information that can be read from a personal identity number is the time of birth and sex. The gender is shown in the penultimate number of the person number which is odd for men and even for women. Mr President, I would like to When a licence has to be presented or a personal identity number is given, which is common in all possible everyday situations, the third digit in the order number always reveals the legal sex to which a person belongs. In the near future, the personal identity number system will need to be redesigned as the numbers are running out. This was confirmed by a government investigation already in 2008. It is therefore time for an investigation to be set up to develop proposals for a new system. When this investigation is carried out, the Left Party believes that it should look at the possibility of introducing a third sex into the personal identity number system. The information on legal sex in the personal identity number forms the basis for much of the gender-disaggregated statistics, which is an important instrument for making discrimination, crime exposure and more visible. The gender-disaggregated statistics also make it possible to conduct policies that offset unjustified differences between the sexes. It is therefore important for us in the Left Party that a new personal identity number system can also ensure that all gender identities are represented and that it is possible to make gender-disaggregated statistics in order to continue to conduct long-term and systematic research based on gender. The Left Party therefore considers it important that gender-disaggregated statistics also include persons who neither identify themselves as men nor women, and it rarely does so today. In view of this, the Left Party considers that the introduction of a new personal identity number system should be investigated. Mr President, I would like to I agree with all the Left Party reservations, but for time to come, I only support the Left Party's reservation 4.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-276	I would like to welcome the ministers.
i-7cabG6wBUEMHTi9NXVU5Sp	An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Government Per Bolund answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-277	Madam President, I would like I address my question to Minister of Justice and Home Affairs Morgan Johansson. In Sweden we have something called moral policemen, that is, men who almost patrol our public environments to control women – what clothes they wear and who they hang out with. We Moderates have put forward proposals this week to punish this behaviour much harder by introducing a new crime: illegal freedom restriction. We also want to create a concrete opportunity to ban access for those who create this kind of insecurity in a number of places in Sweden. My question to the Minister for Justice and Home Affairs is: Is the government prepared to come forward with new proposals to ensure that it is the freedom of the moral police and not of women that is restricted in Sweden?
i-5ed94879815bfa43-281	Madam President, I would like I am, of course, prepared to have a discussion with Tomas Tobé if we can do something further in this regard too. Today we have legislation that deals with harassment, that is, precisely that kind of behaviour, when you go on people and say, "I don't like how you're dressed" and "Why are you going here?" .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. This legislation already meets such situations today. I am, of course, open to a discussion on how we can develop it further. But I want to go further. We are talking about broader legislation in order to tackle such problems of honour in a more tangible way than before. These include more stringent legislation on forced and child marriages and preventing girls from being taken abroad to be married away. We are on the way with such legislation too, to ensure that it is stopped and prevented.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-284	Madam President, I would like I must thank the Minister for his answer. The government will have broad support from the Moderates for all proposals that generally address the issue of honor. It is correct that there is the possibility of prosecuting people for harassment today. But if we are to be honest, it is in practice a matter of fines. Now we are talking about it being able to lead to prison for three years. Finally, is the Minister prepared to make proposals and to allow police officers to issue access bans?
i-5ed94879815bfa43-288	Madam President, I would like I see significant problems with the boundaries of this issue. But we can also discuss it, Tomas Tobé. In addition to harassment, we have another legislation dealing with illegal threats. There, too, we can go significantly higher in terms of penalties. Madam President, I would like To a large extent, the Moderates devote themselves to breaking open doors. They are trying to find a new criminal classification for what is in many ways already criminalised. Maybe it has something to do with the upcoming election campaign.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-291	Madam President, I would like I address my question to Minister Per Bolund. Four or five weeks ago, I asked a question about the extra budget presented by the government and about the amnesty or the possibility of staying that has been presented to people who are adults and who have no reasons for protection but who still want to stay in the country. At that turn of the line, what we have heard many times before was stated, but which we now heard from the Government itself, namely that it is about people who were minors when they arrived and who have been affected by the long processing times in such a way that they have received a different assessment than they would have been, and therefore they should be given a second chance. In the week that was, Expressen did an audit. It was made clear that eight out of ten had their age written down. They have thus set an incorrect age. Maybe they weren't kids at all when they arrived. It is also clear that the Migration Agency believes that the assessment would have been different in very few cases if they had been tested more quickly, during the 15 months. Does the Government stand by the reasons behind the legislation?
i-5ed94879815bfa43-295	Madam President, I would like This is a situation that has arisen because very many people came to our country in a very short time. Many who came were also minors, that is, under 18 years of age. Because our migration agency did not have the capacity to handle so many cases in a short time, the processing times in many cases were very long. It also led to a large number of young people turning 18 during the trial period. Some age assessments have been made. The government has also said that those who are deemed to be clearly adult are not covered by the proposal to stay and receive a residence permit to continue upper secondary school studies. But I don't think it should be seen as a whole, like it applies to everyone. Many young people came here as minors. Then the government thinks that their ability to stay should also be assessed on the basis of the situation they were in when they came here. We believe that this is a fundamental principle of rights. I can only regret that the Swedish Democrats do not share that assessment. We think that people should have a fair assessment.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-300	Madam President, I would like There are many holes in that reasoning. First of all, as I said, the Migration Board itself makes it clear that in the vast majority of cases the assessment would not have been different if it had been done within the 15 months set as a limit. It's not a fact. It's not relevant here. It is also the case that eight out of ten have their age written down. The vast majority were therefore older than they indicated when they were first registered. My question remains. Is it reasonable to give those who have lied about their age an opportunity to stay?
i-5ed94879815bfa43-304	Madam President, I would like We know very well that there are different assessments of people's chances of staying in our country depending on whether they are underage or over 18 years of age. What reception you get and what resources you get access to are also different. It is therefore an important principle to determine whether you are under or over 18 years of age. I think that this is a fundamental, sound position that the government has come up with. There is also support for this in the Riksdag. You should be judged according to the age you were when you came to the country.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-307	Madam President, I would like I would like to address Mr Morgan Johansson, Minister for Justice and Home Affairs. The police are in trouble. We know that. Problems are often focused on vulnerable areas adjacent to large cities. But it is by no means only where there are problems. We also have problems in Swedish countryside. The way the police are manned in different places tends to contribute to regional cleavage. In Jämtland County, which I come from and represent, we have about 200 police officers on an area larger than Holland or Denmark. It creates challenges in itself. My question to the Government is: Is the Government satisfied with the government's and the Government's own efforts to get police officers across the country?
i-5ed94879815bfa43-311	Madam President, I would like For the government, it is extremely important that the police are available throughout the country and that there is a well-developed police organisation wherever you live. In fact, one has a right to feel the security of a strong police presence. That is why we have decided to go in with the major efforts we are now making on the police organization. We are now training twice as many police officers as the Alliance government did. From 600 to 700 a year it will increase to 1,300, which will expire next year. We will continue to expand capacity. We need up to nearly 2 000 trained people to be able to expand the police organisation as we see fit, namely with 10 000 more employees by 2024. We go in with SEK 2 billion more just this year, which is the biggest investment that any government, regardless of political color, has made in 20 years. With these efforts, I am convinced that we will also be able to create a police organisation that is present throughout the country.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-314	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. There is a great deal of agreement in this House that it is necessary to devote more resources to the police in terms of both financial investment and training. There is a strong commitment around the country to more police in all counties. In Jämtland there has been a petition, and I would like to hand it over to the Minister now. It is the Center Party that has initiated it.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-316	Madam President, I would like I'm about to receive the petition. Let me just say that this is actually a political choice. You cannot, on the one hand, go out with huge tax cuts and, on the other hand, spend a great deal more on the police or on other sectors. There's actually a way to go. That is the choice we are facing this autumn. We Social Democrats are in favour of prioritising this aspect of general welfare and security. That's what we're gonna do.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-320	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. Today, the Committee on Finance has dealt with the Government's proposal on profit limits in welfare. We Social Democrats want taxpayers' money to be spent precisely on welfare and not on private over-profits. The decision will be taken here in the Riksdag on 7 June. Unfortunately, the bourgeois parties, including the SD, want the drainage of welfare to continue. What would it mean if the profits were used for staffing, upgrading skills and quality rather than being stopped in private pockets?
i-5ed94879815bfa43-323	Madam President, I would like The government has worked hard during this term of office to put an end to the prize hunt. We are the only country in Europe and the West to allow profit withdrawals from the publicly funded school. We are one of the few countries that have unlimited profits from care. Who pays the price for this? Yes, it is our nurses and our teachers who pay the price for the big profit withdrawals under worse conditions. We're gonna put an end to this. The fact that the Swedish Democrats and the bourgeois parties now intend to put an end to legislation that means that our tax money should be used for what they are intended for – for Swedish welfare, for our nurses and for our teachers – is a disgrace. Our work will continue until we ensure that every tax chandelier going to welfare is also used in welfare, for our nurses and teachers.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-326	Madam President, I would like It's a little strange. Despite the fact that seven out of ten Swedes actually want to limit the profits of welfare, the overall bourgeoisie, including the Swedish Democrats, wants to continue the drainage of welfare. They are thus opposed to a large majority of the Swedish people. As the Government said, we are the only country in the world that allows for such extensive profit withdrawals. What does it mean to continue to be able to make unlimited profits in tax-financed activities?
i-5ed94879815bfa43-328	Madam President, I would like The legitimacy of the tax system is based on people giving up a large part of their income to finance the common sector. There is no legitimacy in taking tax money from hardworking people and then letting the money leak out of the business. If we are to maintain trust in society and trust in the joint financing of welfare, we must put an end to the pursuit of profit and ensure that tax money is actually spent on what it is intended for.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-331	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Anna Ekström. Language is the key to entering Swedish society. For most new arrivals in Sweden, the way to the Swedish language is via SFI. The School Inspectorate has recently reviewed a selection of SFI activities. The audit reveals very serious shortcomings. There is not enough individualisation. Teaching is not challenging enough for those who could advance faster. There is also criticism that SFI education is not sufficiently linked to the labour market and further studies.
i-17mgo6tkihNNNKVj17puk9	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Stockhaus, for the question. Sfi, Swedish for immigrants, is important. At the same time, SFI is an activity that has expanded very much in recent years. We can compare with the year 2000. That's when 40,000 people went to SFI. In 2016, there were 150,000 people in SFI. For each of them, SFI is an important education. Swedish is the key to entering the labour market and moving forward in Swedish society. In Sweden it is work and education that applies, and everyone who can work should also do so. Therefore, it is important not only for the individual but also for the whole society that SFI really works. I know there's some heroic work going on out in our municipalities. It is also in the municipalities that responsibility lies with the SFI for having the quality and quantity needed. I intend to ensure that this work can continue. I hope to be able to come back to this in my next speech.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-338	Madam President, I would like I was going to start by quoting my party leader, who says: Perfect Swedish is overrated, but understandable Swedish is underestimated in Sweden. Now that we have urgent problems, action is needed. But I do not hear anything in the Government's response that indicates that the Government intends to take any concrete steps to improve the quality of the SFI. Given the challenges and the large number of students who need to get through SFI, I find it strange that there are no concrete measures at all.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-339	Madam President, I would like The budget submitted by the government contains a number of measures aimed at ensuring high quality and good throughput in the SFI. Above all, of course, it is about the large additions of resources that the government makes to the municipalities. They are essential for municipalities to meet this major commitment. These additional resources are threatened if tax reductions are chosen as a priority instead. There are also a number of other bets. This is an important business. It must be allowed to continue. It's got to cost money. This means that substantial investments in our municipalities are more important than tax cuts.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-342	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Johansson. This week, the Prime Minister proudly tweeted about an important reform that the Left Party has pushed through in the budget, namely free bus cards for children during the summer holidays. Afterwards, the Government chose to link this reform to the tightening of refugee policy. It's very strong. At a time when almost 200 Swedish billionaires own more than twice the Swedish state budget and a CEO of a large company earns 66 times as much as a nurse chooses to set up children who have the opportunity to take the bus against children who will not be reunited with their family. I wonder why it is that a Socialist minister is putting vulnerable groups against each other in this way instead of pointing out the real injustices that actually exist in our society.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-345	Madam President, I would like Now this isn't what I did. I didn't put groups against each other that way. But I reminded the Left Party that you cannot take credit for all the reforms in one breath because in the next breath you will not want to be there at all when difficult decisions have to be made. Politics is sometimes about pushing forward fine reforms. But politics is also about sometimes being prepared to take responsibility for difficult decisions. That is exactly the situation we had a few years ago with the migration crisis that existed. It was a situation where there were perhaps 10,000 people a week. This government took the necessary responsibility. If we had not done this, we would have had no room for reform at all to allocate to any of what we are now doing together. That's how politics works. This is perhaps what separates our parties: We are always prepared to take responsibility for Sweden, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. We do not leave the responsibility when things are getting difficult.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-348	Madam President, I would like What happens when some of us in society are described as a cost that endangers important investments? It affects not only those who come to Sweden in the future, but it affects people who are already here, who have lived their whole lives here and who may have been here for generations. The Social Democrats' election strategy seems to be to play follow John after SD. We see the result. Every issue, large or small, is linked to immigration, while the debate on an equal society is swept away. And of course SD is growing. How does the government itself feel it's going?
i-5ed94879815bfa43-350	Madam President, I would like I am strongly opposed to trying to equate social democracy with the Swedish democrats. They represent a completely different view of humanity, which is that they basically believe that immigrants, so to speak, are not as much worth as everyone else. On our behalf, we are safeguarding the right of asylum. We always have, and we always will. But we also stand for regulated immigration, which Sweden can handle in the long term too. The problem is that the Left Party has never been able to make such difficult decisions and balances.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-352	Madam President, I would like I assume that my question is addressed to Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. One of the important tasks of a government is to focus on the work of the various authorities and to appoint Directors-General and, in the event of what is sad, to dismiss Directors-General. The latest example of a dismissed Director General is Försäkringskassans Ann-Marie Begler. I find it very strange that a Director-General should be set up and focused on the agency, but still not able to make it work, so you feel obliged to dismiss the Director-General. Something doesn't work in the process, or you don't have the right process to do the work you're supposed to do. My question to the Minister is therefore: what are the criteria for this, and what is the process for the appointment of Directors-General as well as possible?
i-5ed94879815bfa43-356	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Larry Söder, for the question! This is an area where there are actually no differences between the blocks. The policy of appointment adopted by the Government of Reinfeldt has been pursued. It was good to create greater transparency about the recruitment of agency managers. It was also good to get a better clarity in the recruitment process. It creates better confidence in appointments. The government always has the opportunity to remove government managers. It follows from our constitution. It also follows from the special legislation concerning government employees, LOA. It is part of the government's power to govern the authorities. You can do that with regulatory letters. You can do it with special missions. It can be done with economic governance. But it is also possible to influence the authorities through the election of the head of authority and the removal of the head of authority. It is an important part of the democratic chain of governance.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-358	Madam President, I would like My point was not that we had different opinions on how the appointment should be, but my point was that the process somewhere has gone wrong when it is the same government that appoints, that governs the authority and then decides within a term of office. Somewhere the process has gone wrong. I would like to hear in some way the Minister's thoughts on what may have gone wrong in this. Disposing is one thing, but here you have been able to control the whole chain, and yet it has not worked.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-360	Madam President, I would like Larry South! My point is precisely that a government has the power to remove executives for the purpose of governing authorities. That is the point of the order that we have in our constitution. The authorities are normally subject to the government, and the government has the ability to influence the direction of the agency's activities through the appointing authority. This is also evident from positions taken by the Constitutional Committee in the past. It is not a failure by definition to choose to change the head of authority.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-362	Madam President, I would like I would like to address my question to Minister Per Bolund. The other week it was found that the petrol is reaching new record levels – SEK 16 for a litre of petrol, which is the highest price ever. The price has never been so high since the 1940s. Back then, it was World War II. Today it is because of something else — ever - increasing taxes. For many, the car is a necessity. It's a basic requirement. The car is required to lead a reasonably normal life and to be able, not least, to get to and from work in places where there is no metro and other public transport. This also leads to an increase in the rate of urbanisation. Depopulation areas are being depopulated faster and faster. The rural areas are more and more on their knees.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-367	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to correct David Lång's reality statement. It is true that the price of petrol is high. But the reasons why it is now rising include exchange rate changes – the krona is at a low level, which raises the price – but also conflicts around the world, not least in the Middle East. There is also concern about what, for example, Trumps's statement that he will not comply with the Iran agreement will mean. Then, of course, we must ensure that there is the possibility of using the car in the future. The car is necessary for a lot of people. For example, we have increased the support so that there will be tank facilities throughout the country. We are also opening up new means of transport. It is about ensuring that public transport is accessible throughout the country through major efforts but also that there should be charging poles. We have increased the charging poles, charging points, for electric cars throughout the country very much. It's 14,000 new charging poles just through the Climate Tree. At the same time, we are trying to ensure that there is an opportunity to drive in a sustainable way far into the future.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-369	Madam President, I would like Then I will have to return the kindness of correcting Per Bolund on a couple of points. As early as 2015, the petrol tax was increased by 28 cents. In 2016, it was raised by 60 cents. And in 2017, the annual indexation came into force. So it is not just the market price that has risen. If the measures listed by Mr Bolund were to be sufficient, we might have to wait for the terrible tax increases until some other measures are in place.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-371	Madam President, I would like This government is a government that takes the climate challenge very seriously. We have also committed ourselves to achieving the high objectives that a broad majority in the Swedish Parliament has supported. Then we must reduce emissions from traffic, but we must also open up opportunities for people to transport in the future. That is why, for example, we have introduced a quota obligation, a change of fuel, in which we will step by step over time phase biofuels into petrol and diesel. Anyone who tanks their car, anywhere in Sweden, will not notice any difference, but the petrol and diesel will become more and more sustainable every year. It is a sustainable way of transport.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-372	Madam President, I would like I hurried to get here from a meeting with the Avarn city group at Sergel Square and Klara Quarter. I went around and talked to the security guards, who are doing an amazing job. They told me what it's like to complement the police, who are having a very tough time right now. The police shortage has had consequences throughout the country, also here in the Stockholm area. It is believed that much more could be done if the police were also in place to combat the open drug sales that are taking place. I have previously visited Fagersta in Västmanland, in my constituency. I have also recently been to Köping, where you have a single security guard who will be allowed to quit their mission at the end of June. From the Liberals, we have tried to respond to the police crisis by also presenting in the short term a proposal for 2 000 local security guards. This would be a way of supporting the municipalities in their work for security. My question to the Minister for Justice and Home Affairs is: is this a proposal that the Social Democrats will be able to assist? Will such a proposal be made for us to be able to support the municipalities?
i-5ed94879815bfa43-377	Madam President, I would like I have nothing against the expansion of security where it is necessary to supplement the police. But it is not that way that we should go mainly to improve security, but to ensure that police activities are scaled up. That's exactly what we're doing. That is why we are now training twice as many police officers as during the time of the bourgeois government. That's why we're going in with the biggest investment in the police force in 20 years. That is why we have the opportunity to improve police working conditions and wage conditions, so that they can stay in the corps to a greater extent and so that we can also recruit police officers who may have left the profession. I think this is the main and best way forward if you are to improve security. If we are talking about drug sales and such things in the streets and squares, I would also like to remind you that we have now set up more surveillance cameras than ever before in Sweden, among other things to disrupt the type of open drug sales that we should not have.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-380	Madam President, I would like I'm not ashamed of the Liberals. It is the parliamentary party that presents the highest grant to the Swedish police and the highest grant to increase police salaries. However, this debate is not about the police, but my question was about the security guards. It takes two and a half years to train police officers, but the problems are here and now. It costs about SEK 1 billion for the country's municipalities only for security guards and security guards. To this comes the private.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-383	Madam President, I would like I am not asking for Roger Haddad to be ashamed of the Liberals; perhaps that would be too much to ask. However, I think you should have some self-criticism, because you trained as few police officers as you did. You only trained half as many as you need. As Roger Haddad says, it takes two and a half years to train a cop. We have now doubled the pace. 400 policemen just went out a few weeks ago. There will be another 600 in the autumn and next year 1,300 more. This is how we build the organisation, and I think this is the main way to strengthen security in Sweden.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-386	Madam President, I would like On the bus, in social media, in the TV box or whatever screen we choose to watch – wherever we are, we meet advertising. Sometimes it is intrusive with blinking offers that are hard to resist. Sometimes the offers sound too good to be true, and sometimes they are too.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-388	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Emma Hult, for a very important question! There are many of us who are upset about what part of the advertising landscape looks like today. It's very intrusive advertising and sometimes aggressive marketing. Especially when it's targeted at children and young people, it's particularly upsetting. That is why I am proud that the government has also taken a great many measures to strengthen the protection of us consumers and to ensure that we are not misled by marketing. Now, for example, we are taking the step of introducing written requirements for telephone sales, which are, of course, a channel for sales that has huge problems. There are telephone companies that have focused specifically on calling retirement homes because they know that there are vulnerable consumers who agree to your contractual terms. With the written requirement, this will be reduced. We are also calling in the legislation for moderation in the marketing of gambling and credit, which means that we will not be able to go out with the aggressive marketing that we see around us today. We also allocate money to the authorities in order to be able to have better supervision. In the area by area, we are now strengthening protection and ensuring that misleading and aggressive marketing cannot actually continue.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-392	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It feels like we are on the right track, although I am absolutely convinced that quite a lot more needs to be done. Another type of advertising that is too common is sexist advertising. I would like to ban it. What does the government want to do?
i-5ed94879815bfa43-394	Madam President, I would like This is an area that is offensive in many ways. You are met with sexualized advertising messages using the female body to sell goods and services. I do not think that we, as ordinary citizens, should have to meet in a way that disturbs us in our everyday situation. We have given a mandate to the Equality Ombudsman to look at developments over time and see what measures we can take to reduce the extent of this problem. On behalf of the Green Party, we are also prepared to actually move on to legislation and establish a ban.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-396	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Anna Ekström. What I often hear from entrepreneurs on my business visits is that there is a shortage of young people who have finished the upper secondary school vocational programme. It is a major problem for them because they need to recruit, but young people do not exist. Björklund's upper secondary school reform removed the general competence to the university from the vocational programmes. Since then, the number of students in grade 1 has decreased by one third. Welding, welding and transport are now the main occupations of the professional programmes, and the list of electricians and nurses is a long one. Just think of all the retirements we have ahead of us in these areas! The government has now put forward a proposal to re-establish the professional programmes, which the industries are very positive about. What is the government's assessment of the importance of the proposal for professional programmes?
i-5ed94879815bfa43-400	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lena Emilsson, for a very important question! In 2011, we received a new curriculum. The Government of Reinfeldt carried out that the vocational programmes would no longer be pre-requisites for higher education. Young people who wanted general competence would be allowed to choose these subjects. The result, as Lena Emilsson says, has been absolutely devastating. The number of applicants has fallen by one third. Compared to 2006, only half as many people are looking for vocational programmes, while the sectors are screaming for skilled workers. The government has now fixed this mistake in a bill, and I have probably never experienced such support from the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, trade unions, industries, student organisations and teachers. Everyone I meet supports this reform – except the alliance parties headed by the Moderates. Unfortunately, it seems that the Moderates are about to stop this reform for business, and my assessment is that it represents a very negative development for our business community.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-405	Madam President, I would like The Upper Secondary Study highlighted the need to strengthen professional programmes in various ways. I support that assessment, and a great many entrepreneurs do. The Moderates also supported it, and the government's proposal made last spring had a majority in the Riksdag. But all of a sudden the Moderates turned around and will now vote against the proposal. What will be the consequences?
i-5ed94879815bfa43-407	Madam President, I would like The consequences are that the very tight supply of skills will continue to be difficult in Sweden, to the detriment of our common economy and to the detriment of our employers. I would like to appeal to the Moderates to live up to the promises they have made on countless encounters with different employers. Listen to those who know what this is about, listen to those who really need the important professional programmes that are the basis for the supply of skills in industry and in the public sector. Listen to those who know!
i-5ed94879815bfa43-409	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson. Criminal youth gangs are spreading fear in the city. Teenagers arrested for preparing for murder. Turn-doors for young criminals. These are headlines that can be read in the newspapers every two days. The latter is about a youth gang that knocked a man unconscious. Two 16-year-olds were arrested but released quickly, right after. That is the case in Sweden. Young people can beat people unconscious in the morning, be arrested at lunch and in the afternoon they are already free and can go for coffee with their friends. This is totally unacceptable. Already three years ago, we received an announcement on new sanctions, such as youth monitoring with anklets. But in three years the government has not presented any new sanctions. My question is therefore: when will the government take juvenile delinquency seriously? When are you proposing new sanctions?
i-5ed94879815bfa43-414	Madam President, I would like Before that, we had eight years with bourgeois governments where nothing was done in relation to youth sanctions. What we have done now is to come up with a proposal that is about being able to develop the youth sanctions exactly as Ellen Juntti says. We are on the way to making such a proposal. Let me just say, however, that we must do both. We must combat the crime that exists and put the most active individuals in prison. Let's do that now. Right now, there are 260 more people in custody than a year ago. When the bourgeois government ruled, these people ran around the streets and committed crimes. They don't anymore. Now they're in jail. At the same time, preventive action must be taken precisely against young people who are about to fall into crime. It is also about strengthening social services and general welfare overall. Never forget that, the Moderates: You have to do both!
i-5ed94879815bfa43-418	Madam President, I would like That the alliance government did nothing is completely wrong. Most people understand that. Those in custody are usually over 18 years of age; they are of age. I'm talking about those under 18. We believe that social services are not the right place to take responsibility for these juvenile offenders who have committed serious crimes, but we want to transfer responsibility to the Prison Service. We think they know this better. Is the Attorney General open to that?
i-5ed94879815bfa43-420	Madam President, I would like No, actually, I'm not. Correctional services do not have the skills to deal with the group of young people we are talking about. This competence has, for example, the National Board of Institutional Affairs and the Social Services. That's why it's supposed to be there. One of the things the previous bourgeois government did was to liquidate the money and investments that existed for LVU dealings that we had introduced. I was Minister of Social Services at the time. You wound up those bets, and you cut down on LVU management. It was a huge mistake.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-422	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Per Bolund. When I visit people in my home county, Örebro County, they talk a lot about fiber expansion. The problem is that fiber has not been expanded everywhere. They wouldn't have to travel, and they could have the company where they live instead of going to work. Many elderly people would more easily reach the health centre online and order medicine. This is a dilemma for many. At the same time, the government is investing SEK 1 billion in electric bicycles. Is it right, Minister, to prioritise 1 billion to electric bicycles while driving instead of working at home online?
i-5ed94879815bfa43-425	Madam President, I would like We allocate SEK 350 million to electric bicycles, and we allocate significantly more resources to digitalisation in society. It is true that we need to have a good infrastructure to use the digital media, work throughout the country and take advantage of the services and offers we can get via the internet. There the government has put in a significantly higher gear than in the past with high targets and allocated significantly more resources for expansion. This is why high-quality broadband is being developed throughout the country. We would like the pace to be even higher, but there we will constantly ensure that the resources needed to achieve the objectives are available. There we hope for support from the other parties in the Swedish Parliament. We note that this government has significantly accelerated its pace compared to that of previous governments.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-429	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I would like to come back to the investments in electric bicycles. An electric bike costs between SEK 16 000 and SEK 24 000. I would like to hear what the government has in mind in terms of distribution policy. Who can afford to buy these bicycles with prices ranging from $15,000 to $25,000? Is it right to invest so much when it is really the climate issue you are looking for, not to subsidise people who can afford to buy their electric bike themselves?
i-5ed94879815bfa43-431	Madam President, I would like The Government considers it important to open up opportunities for more sustainable transport patterns. We know that anyone who moves from commuting by car every day to commuting by bicycle, including an electric bicycle, has a positive health effect, and that it will be a local environmental effect with reduced emissions to the air environment and a positive climate effect. With the support that has now been put in place, there is a sharp increase in buyers of electric bicycles, which will change what our cities look like in the future. This is good because there is room for driving more cars in the countryside, where you really need it.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-433	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Home Affairs Morgan Johansson. This morning, when I was watching TV, there were warnings of fires. I also saw that there was a fire in a couple of places. I still have fresh memory of the Westmanland fire, which caused great damage to us. Next week, Emergency Response Week starts. It is for municipalities, NGOs and the public to get help, support and practice to think through what is needed when things happen. In addition, the brochure "About the Crisis" or "The War" comes. It is not only about crises but also about war. What makes that brochure, which used to be in the telephone books, now available to 5 million households? Why now?
i-5ed94879815bfa43-437	Madam President, I would like The simple answer to that question is that, for the first time in 20 years, we are making a major commitment to civil defence. It's a branch that's been lying for many years. We are investing 1.3 billion in three years, and that is part of the defence policy settlement that came in last autumn. It is true that Åsa Lindestam says that the brochure will be distributed to all household mailboxes next week. It contains practical advice on what to think about if the crisis or war comes. The purpose of this, of course, is not to frighten people, but to make people think. How can I cope if electricity disappears, if I can no longer communicate as usual by means of telecommunications or if the water disappears? What's my emergency? There are many different reasons why such a thing can happen, not just war. It is high time that this kind of information was also disseminated to the public.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-442	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I think the brochure will shake. I myself have not been allowed to hold it in my hand, as the Minister now did, but I look forward to seeing and reading it. However, I know a little bit about what it contains, and it feels good. I think the brochure will shake up at home. I hope that after feeling a little unnerved, one sits down at the kitchen table and discusses with the family what one needs to do. Is there cause for concern in Sweden?
i-5ed94879815bfa43-446	Madam President, I would like We know that the security policy situation has deteriorated, but that is not the main reason why we are going out with the information. Today we are much more vulnerable than in the 50s, 60s or 70s. If electricity disappears or telecommunications disappear, our society is much more vulnerable. Therefore, it is high time to get a compilation of what to think about as an individual. But there is also basic information about society's emergency preparedness, important telephone numbers, how important communication to the public works and so on.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-447	Madam President, I would like I put my question to Per Bolund, although I have heard that Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson has dealt with the same issue. I also asked the question yesterday to Minister of Civil Affairs Shekarabi. In two weeks, it's summer vacation. It's a happy time for most children, but not for everyone. A number of girls risk being taken out of Sweden and given up against their will. A lost childhood. A ruined future. The Moderates and the Alliance have previously pushed through an announcement in the Riksdag to completely ban child marriage. There is a process going on, said Minister of Civil Affairs Shekarabi yesterday, and Morgan Johansson said the same thing today. In the meantime, the process of drafting a bill banning child marriage is perhaps the only thing standing between the child and a ruined future is a spoon in the tross and a security guard at Arlanda. My question to Minister Per Bolund is this: when will the government present a bill banning child marriage?
i-5ed94879815bfa43-451	Madam President, I would like This is an issue that is closest to my remit. There were two questions. One is about child marriage, and the other is about forced marriage. We are now working on legislative proposals to plug the space left by the bourgeois government in the bill that passed in 2014. It was too bad a law that was passed at the time. We are also working, and will go to the Riksdag as soon as we are finished, with an additional assignment to an investigator to review the possibilities for, for example, withdrawing passports or imposing an exit ban in situations where there is a risk of girls being taken out of the country to be married away. We are looking at the UK in this respect, where there is special legislation and rules. Norway also has a better system than we have. We will come as soon as we are ready to come forward with sharp proposals in that part.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-456	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that answer. But the question was when the government intends to present a proposal that completely prohibits child marriage in Sweden. I understand that there are no parties in the Swedish Parliament who think that child marriage should be allowed. This in itself should enable the process to be speeded up. We have seen that when other pressing issues have been at stake, the process has been speeded up.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-459	Madam President, I would like That investigation has just been out for a referral. We are working on that proposal, and when we are done we will put it forward. We know that there is now a strong commitment to this. But it is basically a matter of fixing the legislation that the bourgeois government produced, which was too weak. Now I think we agree on how the arrangement should be. The second part I spoke about, the passport issue, comes in a special investigation that Mari Heidenborg will report in a few months' time.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-463	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Anna Ekström. Unemployment is falling and employment is increasing. The time for newcomers to enter the labour market or start studying has fallen dramatically. It is the result of our Social Democratic policy. But we still see a great difference between native and foreign born in terms of employment and access to welfare. The government's efforts on education aimed at new arrivals are therefore crucial. Many people I meet out at folk high schools around Stockholm talk about how folk education opened the door to the language and made more education and work possible. Folkhögskolan currently experience difficulties in contact with Arbetsförmedlingen. That's why many new arrivals are being squeezed – they don't get this important study place and opportunity despite the government's efforts.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-468	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Vepsä, for an important question! The government is currently carrying out a so-called "knowledge boost", and it is a huge investment in, among other things, our folk high schools. The reason for this great effort, which is the biggest on this side of the millennium, is, of course, that there is so much need. Mattias Vepsä addressed the needs of new arrivals. On the Swedish labour market, it is a completed upper secondary education that is the watershed – it is difficult to get into the labour market and get a good job if you do not have a full upper secondary education. For a new arrival, it is difficult to manage all the courses required in the standard upper secondary school. Here, folk high schools offer great opportunities. We have also allocated large sums of money to enable them to do so. There is a need for better cooperation between Arbetsförmedlingen and folkhögskolan, but I am happy to see that the number of instructions for courses within folkhögskolan has increased quite well in recent times. I hope that this development will continue and will do mine in order for it to be so.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-472	Madam President, I would like The Government's ambition is that all people should have equal opportunities to survive in life. Equality is important to us Social Democrats. When it comes to new arrivals' opportunities, there are those who choose to target new arrivals and make it harder for them to establish themselves. We want to make it easier. Another important player is the study associations, which also want to be involved in the establishment. If you dream, Anna Ekström, what do your dreams look like for the whole population in the next parliamentary term if you put it against the tax cuts proposed by the opposition?
i-5ed94879815bfa43-475	Madam President, I would like If I'm going to dream about people's education in 30 seconds, I see people's education as something that we in Sweden have received from previous generations and that we should be careful of. We have folk high schools in every county, and we have student associations in every municipality. They make invaluable efforts to ensure not only that the new arrivals receive a good education but also that all of us who live in Sweden get to know each other and can do so within the framework of a study association's activities. It's gold worth it.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-477	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Morgan Johansson. Yesterday, the Riksdag voted through a sex crime law based on voluntary activity. The report which dealt with the government's proposal with the same name made clear what is now becoming law: that threats, violence or a particularly vulnerable situation are no longer required for anyone to be convicted of rape. Inaction with the victim does not mean that she has said yes. Another major innovation is negligence. From July 1st, you can be sentenced for neglectful rape or neglectful sexual abuse and jailed for it. The negligence is about when the offender should have understood that there was no consent between the parties. My question to the Government is what effects the Government believes the new legislation will have in the short and long term.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-481	Madam President, I would like First of all, thank you to Parliament for the decision taken yesterday! We've been waiting for that for a long time. This is the most important criminal justice reform in our term of office. It is a discussion that has been going on for almost 20 years with which we have now come to an end. The previous government failed to do so. We've managed to get it through. Consent regulation, increased penalties for aggravated rape, negligence crimes such as new criminal harassment and better support for victims will lead to more sentences but also to a strong preventive effect when the legislation becomes as clear as it now becomes.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-483	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This is an issue that has received a lot of attention both in schools and on social media. Among other things, there is a video on Youtube called Te and Consent, which is a personal favourite for me. But a culture of consent does not automatically come from having a law. How should we continue to work to get a culture of consent in Sweden and an equal society?
i-5ed94879815bfa43-485	Madam President, I would like What we are doing now is following up on this with an information campaign. We have given a special mission to the Victims Agency to carry it out. The simple principle is that sex is voluntary and that what is not voluntary is a crime. It should be in the spinal cord of every man and boy in Sweden that this is the case, because in the bottom it is the case that if men's violence against women is to stop, it is the men who must change. That is why we must ensure that this leads to a general change of attitude, and then we must work in the way we do now with the Victims' Agency.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-487	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Shekarabi that concerns the 13,383 people in Gävleborg County who are unemployed. I have noted that the Government goes country and country around promising government jobs. The last day I saw that he was in Kiruna and promised a few hundred government jobs. The media in Norrbotten wrote that. Now I think that the voters should be a little soundly sceptical about the Social Democratic electoral promises given in this opinion situation. If nothing else, we can think of the petrol tax promise made before the last election, when it was said that there was no need to increase the petrol tax. In Gävleborg County, the state has removed 140 important government jobs from the Migration Agency. Even if you include the replacement jobs that have been added, it is a huge minus, and we therefore have 13,383 people who are unemployed.
i-8Pw1gR9FdWTby8f32NacH3	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Beckman, for the question! I am extremely proud to belong to a government that has decided to stop the closure of the Swedish Tax Agency's operations in Hudiksvall, which has chosen to send signals to its authority so that the Swedish Public Employment Service establishes its new operations in Söderhamn and has decided to move the Swedish ESF Council from Stockholm to Gävle and establish the new Agency for Safety and Health at Work in Gävle. These are important changes in order to maintain confidence in the Swedish state and safeguard trust in the Swedish state by ensuring that we break the trend that prevailed under the bourgeois government when state activities were centralised in Stockholm. If we are to be able to stick together Sweden, we must continue with the government's policy, and then the state jobs must be distributed fairly. The state must take responsibility for the cohesion of our country by being in the whole country, and now we have a positive trend. That trend must continue.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-494	Madam President, I would like I guess you'll have to take these brand speeches to SSU Congress. If you take away 140 jobs and add 50, it'll be minus 90. The fire speech means that there have been fewer jobs in Gävleborg County in terms of the state's presence. My question remains. What does the government intend to do to increase the number of government jobs in Gävleborg County – or to ensure that companies can hire more employees? The 13,383 unemployed in Gävleborg County are curious about the Government's response.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-496	Madam President, I would like We will continue to ensure that the state grows outside Stockholm and to relocate operations from Stockholm to other parts of the country. However, Madam President, we are going to stand firm on the rescheduling of migration policy, which is the background to the migration agency's slowing down operations in Gävleborg County. It was the right decision to change migration policy. We must stand by this, protect the right of asylum and ensure that we have a reception that works and that we give people the opportunity to establish themselves in our country.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-499	Madam President, I would like I want to ask Ardalan Shekarabi my question. As far as public procurement is concerned, there is a tendency for large venture capital companies to win the contracts. In Malmö, from which I come, we have an example where a venture capital company has won a procurement for SFI, Swedish for immigrants, and there has unfortunately been cheating. It has been cheated on how to account for teacher density and teacher eligibility for students. This causes a lot of trouble for the students, who receive less education. It's just one example. My question is: how can we get away from this, that the big giants win procurements and, unfortunately, may not always deliver as good results as they have promised? In this way, we could also improve welfare and allow other, smaller, non-profit-making players to join us.
i-RZv4mYgnMpuTW3YNvakMHZ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Hillevi Larsson, for the question! What is happening in the SFIs, with large, profit-making groups that have not really behaved and have not kept what they have promised in public procurement, is of course very serious. I remember, Madam President, when Anders Borg and several of the bourgeois party leaders promised to work for venture capital companies to be removed from welfare and school. That was the last term of office. Now the proposal is on your table here in Parliament. June 7th is voting. Are we to have limits on the pursuit of profit in the education system, or are we to continue to allow unlimited profit withdrawals and offer venture capital companies a profit opportunity using our tax money to be used in school? This is decided by Parliament on 7 June, Madam President.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-504	Madam President, I would like This issue has many dimensions. Ultimately, it is about the quality of welfare, which must be guaranteed. But it is also about our tax money. There's a lot of money running out. Many of these companies make millions of profits; it can even be billions if you look at the total cost. Then it is very important that we ensure that the tax money is spent on the right things. The quality of welfare is one of the most important things, so I hope it will go well in the vote.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-506	Madam President, I would like I agree with Hillevi Larsson's position. It is a position that also has the support of over 70 per cent of Swedes. The Swedish people do not want their tax money, which is to be used for adult education, to leak from the business. Then we are talking about over-taxation. If we are to levy taxes to finance welfare, in this case vocational training, we must ensure that the tax money is spent on what it is intended for. Otherwise, trust in our common sector falls.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-508	Madam President, I would like I would like to address my question today to Minister Anna Ekström. This morning I have had the privilege of spending several hours with students from Frida School in Trollhättan. We have had a series of discussions about the future of the school. One of the questions I have brought with me, from Edvin at Fridaskolan, among others, is how the government thinks about the future curriculum and the subjects in it. Does the government think that all the subjects that exist today will also remain in the school of the future? Is it not perhaps the case that we have new challenges and needs for which young people of the future need to be educated? I would like to ask Anna Ekström that question.
i-AGWj1K7cYuKv7AWEMJNwZn	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, for the question! Our curricula are important. They have been developed in Sweden since the 1800s. One thing that distinguishes our curricula and our work on curricula from how it works in other countries is that our process is very political. Here in Sweden we have become accustomed to the Minister for Education sitting and having views on the details of the writings in the curricula. I think the curricula should be developed. But I think they should develop with the support of the profession that knows the most about school, namely our teachers. It is our teachers who will be in the driver's seat and have the main responsibility for how our governance documents will be developed. We are now seeing a major discussion in the Swedish political debate on today's curricula, in which the former Minister of Education, who himself was responsible for writing the curricula, now rejects them and claims that there is some political establishment that has written what he has actually decided. I want to review the curriculum, but I want the teachers to do it.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-514	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. I myself think that we need to keep the debate and the debate on the school of the future alive, and I understood that there is also a discussion in the government about how we should do this. I share the view that the profession should have a great impact, but I think it is also important that we involve those who go to today's school and who reflect, namely the students. I would therefore like the Government to also develop how we further develop freedom of choice in school.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-516	Madam President, I would like An example of the fact that it is actually important that the curriculum is also a matter for the whole of society and that it is not only the students who are important are the new writings in the curriculum that programming should be included for all students. The reason why this wording is included is that today's students will work on tomorrow's labour market and study tomorrow, and then you have to master basic IT skills. We will continue to develop the curricula. We will do this with teachers as professionals, but students and other actors should have the opportunity to give feedback. I look forward to a further discussion on this issue.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-518	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by calling for the approval of reservation No 6 in SkU19. We have tens of thousands of people around Sweden, mainly girls and women, but also boys and men, who live in freedom, in the midst of Swedish free society. They are monitored in detail by families and self-appointed moral guardians and moral police officers. Everything is examined: how they dress, who they hang out with, what they are going to train or not to educate themselves to. Girls are forced into marriage with adult men and are subjected to virginity checks. Girls feel anxiety and fear of being married to someone they don't want to marry. Those who defy this are at great risk. They are threatened and subjected to violence, and some even pay with their lives for having stood up to it. All of this is done to maintain what is called family honors. They practice so-called honour violence, but there is no honor involved in this. Honour-related violence and oppression are closely linked to violence against women, but of course it also affects men, not least homosexual men. The underlying value system involves entire families and families and takes different forms of control over people and the exercise of power based on the participation of many, that many are snitching if they see something and that many are responsible for the threats. It is parents who ban certain peers, brothers who control school behavior and relatives who engage in negotiations about these persons and what will happen to them if they defy what the family or family has decided. There is an increased element of this in some geographical areas of Sweden, but it is important to remember not to have a collective debt statement. Individuals do this. At the same time as we should remember that we must not have collective guilt, we must not, however, sweep the problems under the carpet. In the Liberals' budget options we have a special effort against honour-related violence: 1⁄2 billion SEK over four years to strengthen this work so that there are resources to put in against it all. Basically, it is a matter of changing attitudes – that such behaviours are not acceptable in Sweden and that they should be punished when they occur. Above all, however, it is important to ensure that they do not exist at first. There are many parts to this work. Some of which we have to deal with here in the Tax Committee and which lie under the Tax Agency and that part of our public authorities is that, when you stand up to this oppression, you are threatened and threatened with life. A person may need a protected identity. We have highlighted – it has also been highlighted in the investigation set up by the Alliance Government, which is now on Parliament's table as a bill – that long-term protection is needed and that it should not be reviewed all the time. If you have three years with a protected identity or a protected address, you should not have to worry that they might disappear after the three years. Avoiding this concern is an important part of a large puzzle of many measures that need to be taken and which we highlight in the response to this proposal.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-527	Madam President, I would like We as a nation are facing major welfare challenges in the future. During this government, we have seen how well-being has gradually deteriorated, and no reforms for real change have been presented. I refrain from talking about the changes that have actually been made, because some are. Changes have been made to treat the LSS differently and it has been proposed to remove the flat-rate allowance for the visually impaired. I'm putting these changes aside. We can talk about the areas where reforms for the future have been neglected. We see that the care queues have doubled and that people instead have to live in uncertainty about when to get the care that they both need and have been guaranteed. We see that the number of retirement homes does not meet the needs that exist. There are more and more people who would need an elderly care center, but they are met with the words: There is no room for you. I believe that in order to cope with the welfare and future reform efforts, it is necessary that everyone who can work also gets a job and that we get people to work as soon as possible. It goes without saying to me that this also applies to asylum seekers and that we get people to go from subsidies to work. With a significant increase in the number of asylum applications and a significant increase in processing times, employment for asylum seekers is very important and as many people as possible can work as soon as possible. For asylum seekers who want to start work, there are several practical problems and obstacles that need to be removed. There have been problems in getting the coordination number needed to be able to request, among other things, an A-tax note. We Christian Democrats believe that it must be possible to speed up this process so that you get an A-tax note much earlier and can actually take a job. One suggestion may be that you receive an A-tax note before you have confirmed your identity. The IRS has proposed a solution to this problem, which we believe is the right way forward, and we would prefer the government to ensure that this is resolved as soon as possible. We believe that it is important for an asylum seeker to be able to get to work as soon as possible and to contribute to society. It is also important for us to develop the welfare we have for the future, with future reforms. That is why we are calling for the approval of Amendment No 5 by the Christian Democrats, which acts just like this, and for the Alliance's reservation 6.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-533	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for approval of the reservation in SkU16 and for reservation 1 in SkU19. Census accounts are an important prerequisite for the activities of most authorities and, when they fail, the quality of the work of these authorities deteriorates. That is why people's records must be of very high quality. We need to have a high level of security so that updates and changes are made quickly and with great precision. All authorities that detect errors and deficiencies must be obliged to report them to the Swedish Tax Agency. We must have a high level of accessibility to the population records of the authorities that need to be consulted in the exercise of their authority. It is ultimately about the Swedish administrative culture and that the basic functions of society should function with a high degree of certainty from different perspectives. High quality public records are crucial for the authorities to know who they are in contact with – that it is the right person – and for reliable contact information to be provided to these people. Therefore, giving false information to the population register must be regarded as a serious crime. In addition to the population register itself, which I will come back to, proposal 2017/ 18:145 also deals with proposals to provide greater protection for threatened and persecuted persons. This in itself is a very important issue. Victims must always be given priority over perpetrators, and protection measures are important to ensure that both this type of crime and others cannot be repeated or continued. It is also important that the measures proposed in this context are effective and that they are not an alibi for policy – to have done something. There is clearly a need to protect people who are victims of this type of crime better than is being done today. The government is proposing a number of measures, which can lead in the right direction but where in some cases it can be questioned whether they are really the most suitable ones. One such measure is that, in certain specific cases, a new, stronger measure may need to be applied: protected population records. It means, among other things, that you are registered in a place other than the one in which you live. In these cases, there should reasonably be a strong threat picture behind such a decision, assuming that those responsible for the threat have information about the original residence address. It will therefore be a rather strange measure to grant protected censuses if the threatened person does not change his address at the same time, unless the measure is taken for preventive purposes before the threats have arisen. However, the primary thing in such situations should be to focus on achieving real and sustainable protection for those who need it. Another important issue is to give the Swedish Tax Agency the task of being responsible for and providing support for those who have been granted protected public records. The government proposes it in the bill. This is a task that can actually be better dealt with by the police, which is rigged to deal with these kinds of issues that arise, as the Swedish Tax Agency points out in its referral. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, the government has also completely failed to take on the most important measure in terms of protecting the victim in such situations. Although it is not directly related to changes in the population register, for the situation to which such changes should have an impact, it is of the utmost importance. One simply cannot ignore the shortcomings in the police's ability to act and the lack of efficiency of the judiciary and the focus on protecting victims from criminals. Madam President, I would like From our perspective, therefore, a strong effort is needed to strengthen the police's ability to keep the criminal away from the possibility of committing a crime. At the same time, the judiciary needs to be strengthened and strengthened in order to prosecute those who threaten and persecute others. Furthermore, in the case of criminals who are not Swedish citizens, there should be a requirement for life-long expulsion from the country. In this respect, it requires both resources for police and judicial systems and sharper wording in some laws to solve the problem. Therefore, in Alternatives for Sweden we have special claims in our reservation on these issues. Madam President, I would like Both the Swedish National Audit Office, in its report Folkbokningen – a quality work on the uphill, as well as the Report on organised and systematic financial crime against welfare, in the report Qualified Welfare Crime, have pointed out a number of serious shortcomings in population records. These include both the data content of population registers and the procedures to ensure that population registers have the status required to meet high standards of accurate information and a high level of data security. At the same time, the lack of resources at the Swedish Tax Agency has meant that the work of building a new IT system, which has been under way for almost ten years, has failed because the population records have failed. So we can see that the old motto that you get what you pay for has a clear relevance in this context too. Appearance and consequence thinking have not been the main hallmark of either the former alliance government or the present left government. This must be included in the further work. The investigation into qualified welfare crime reveals, among other things, that the Swedish Tax Agency does not have a statutory reporting obligation in case of suspicion of a crime. It also emerges that not all authorities are obliged to notify the Swedish Tax Agency when errors are recorded in the population register. These are notable shortcomings in the regulatory framework for Swedish administration, which should be addressed as soon as possible. The task of the investigation was, among other things, to identify risk factors that contribute to welfare crime. On this basis, it is noted, among other things, that data in the registers which are relevant for payments from welfare systems do not reflect actual circumstances, in particular data recorded in the population register. Madam President, I would like In bill 145, the government has some good proposals for legislative changes to strengthen population records, we will acknowledge, which in principle follow the proposals for measures proposed by the investigation. These include the requirement to de-register when false identity is discovered. That's very good. It is about increased opportunities for the Swedish Tax Agency to carry out physical checks. That's good, too. However, it is missing that it should be possible to check other persons who are staying at the control address when the check is carried out, that is to say, persons other than those who were originally intended to be checked. It is also a question of criminalising the deliberate transmission of incorrect information to public records. That is also a good measure. On the other hand, we believe that the scale of penalties is too low and needs to be tightened up on the basis of the proposal before us. We believe this in the light of the fact that crimes in this respect often create the conditions for other crimes. The Alliance for Sweden believes that there must also be a requirement for migrants and asylum seekers to include biometric information, such as fingerprints, in the population register. The reason for this is that identity is often impossible to establish, because you do not have the necessary documents with you when you come here. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office's review is about how the Swedish Tax Agency works to maintain the quality of civil accounts. This report identifies a number of shortcomings that are producing serious consequences for other authorities and require urgent action to be taken in order to remedy them. The main shortcomings identified by the Swedish National Audit Office in the report are as follows. Firstly, knowledge of the quality of population registers is too low, the quality work of population registers is not properly controlled and the allocation of resources is not appropriate. With regard to this point, the Government has given the Tax Agency a directive on certain measures. This is good but not enough, because money is not sent at the same time so that the Swedish Tax Agency can solve its task according to the given directives. Secondly, the Swedish National Audit Office says that the IT support available to handle the census is old and insufficient. The Government points out here that the Swedish Tax Agency is working on developing a new system for population registration. It has been going on for ten years, as I mentioned earlier, and has been heavily underfunded. This, in turn, means that it is out of date even before it has been completed, and it is still not clear. When the former Director General of the Tax Agency visited the Tax Committee, we asked questions about these conditions. He then stated that the Swedish Tax Agency had not been able to implement the measures to be implemented because it had not had sufficient resources. This clearly shows that we need to start over on the basis of the current technical conditions. It requires new resources to be given sufficient priority in this work. On this issue, the government has completely lost its grip and has serious consequences. Thirdly, there is a lack of adequate tools to investigate and correct errors. The Swedish National Audit Office points to problems with routine issues but also points out that not all authorities are obliged to notify detected errors. The issue is also linked to the IT issue and the regulatory framework regarding how the Swedish Tax Agency can control the data available, which is the only one that is followed up by the government. The Swedish Tax Agency must be given the necessary skills to be able to quickly correct errors in the population register's databases. There is also a need to strengthen reporting requirements from other authorities. Madam President, I would like The resources for the management of our authorities' most important database, the population register, must be upgraded, as well as the legislation governing the handling of data in public records at different stages of the exercise of public authority. The government is showing a great lack of sensitivity to the problems that are inherent in today's way of managing population records and that have been presented in the investigations that I have referred to. Above all, it is a question of not increasing the resources necessary for the tax authorities to implement the necessary structural changes, despite their knowledge of the problem. Despite some good proposals in the bill, much remains to be done, and it is extremely urgent.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-557	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for approval of the SkU19 and Sku16 proposals, which are the two reports we are debating today. The two reports deal with population records. One deals with the Government's letter in connection with the Swedish National Audit Office's report, and the other deals with a very good proposal from the Government. It is simply longed for by many. It's a little hard to understand the Alliance's reservations. In reservation No 2 on population records at the right address, it says that a declaration to the government that population records at the wrong address should be criminalised. I understand that this is one of the things contained in the proposal, which is mentioned in the report. I read from p. 18 of the report: The proposal also contains proposals aimed at improving the quality of population records. The Tax Agency shall be given the opportunity to de-register false identities from the population register and to carry out verification visits to verify a person's residence. A civil record offence is re-established, which means that a criminal liability takes place when a person intentionally provides an incorrect information as a basis for a decision on civil registration or fails to comply with his obligation to notify and measures pose a risk to evidence. It shall also be possible to be convicted of serious civil records offences. ..................................................... Then there are parts of the opposition that, in every question, in every motion and in every speech, want to incite people with foreign backgrounds. I have plenty of such people in my neighborhood, and they are perhaps more extreme than those who sit here in Parliament. In addition, the same applies to the extreme right as to the extreme left – they multiply by division. There are really only three things to say: Madam President, I would like Having said that, I would like to extend one hand to the bourgeois opposition – to Lotta Finstorp and the others who want to understand what this is about objectively. I have read your reservation No 6 and interpret it as being fundamentally in agreement. We could have a debate about what you did and did not do in this matter when you ruled, and you can certainly think of something else that should have been in the bill. However, it will not be very constructive. Most of the reservations will be met by the proposals in these two reports, where we propose approval of the bill, and by the mandate given by the government to the Swedish Tax Agency on the basis of the letter from the Swedish National Audit Office. Actually, I'm gonna keep an eye on it happening. Instead, I think we should agree that, in spite of this, all is not peace and joy. Many women live – not infrequently with their children – in constant shadow and fear of beating and threatening men. That is not acceptable. It's just insane. We must create a society where women are as free as men and where men do not set limits on what women should do, how they should be or behave, how they should dress, when they can go out or who they can meet and not meet. With this bill, we treat only one symptom and not the disease itself, that is, too many men's incomprehensible need for violence against and power over women. Many more and powerful measures are needed against misogynism in Sweden. It is a budcavel that must move from government to government regardless of their political color. In this Assembly, the Swedish Parliament, we must all – both women and men – work tirelessly for an equal Sweden so that one day we can say that such things as violence against women, sexual harassment and rape only belong to history. Someone may think a little silently that that is utopian, and perhaps women actually felt once about such things as inheritance rights, the right to education and the right to vote. We've come a long way, but there's still one journey to be made. Politics is to want, Palme once said. We must, together, want equality and want to put an end to the abuse of women, because then I think we can actually do that.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-566	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a good post, Maria! You are highlighting an issue that is extremely important, namely misogynism and moral police. It does not belong in Sweden 2018. I would like to come back to what I raised in the debate. These are good parts that the government highlights in the bill, and we have pushed this forward together – absolutely. But then it's about being able to implement it down at the different levels. These are, for example, schools that have today had children with protected identities in their school catalogues. I do not think we have an answer on how to ensure this, but I would still like to ask what can be done. I think it may be that GDPR puts the issue of personal data that needs to be protected a little more on the agenda – we are constantly receiving emails that we are going to approve that someone may keep our personal data and so on. But you can look at all the transgressions that have been made against people who have protected identities. This applies, for example, to district courts that speak of the district court to which a person with a protected identity belongs, so to speak. It is about school catalogues, and it is about users with protected identity that the municipality has revealed and so on. I would just like us to problematise this. How can we get everyone in the various social functions to actually implement this and take protected identities very seriously?
i-5ed94879815bfa43-570	Madam President, I would like We are in complete agreement on that, Lotta Finstorp, and I think we were talking about exactly the same thing about a year ago. The letter on the audit report states that the Government has commissioned the Swedish Tax Agency to come back with how to ensure that this does not happen. The major problem I think is the human factor, and it is well unclear how to solve it. I think we need to have a debate among the authorities that this is incredibly important. For many times it becomes nonsense, if you will excuse the language. When it comes to school classes, for example, it's not just school photos, it's just darkening a name – and everyone understands that it's that person who has protected identity. So the human factor is a problem. The Swedish Tax Agency will report measures to the government this autumn, and then we will see what it contains. However, I agree that we need to overcome the fact that even authorities actually reveal identities.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-573	Madam President, I would like I would also like to mention a part of the alliance reservation we have. Maria Strömkvist rightly says that it is included in the bill that civil record crimes should be reintroduced, as well as the possibility for the Swedish Tax Agency to make home visits. The problem that is not included in the bill concerns our second reservation, which is that anyone can register at my address without me receiving an active question from the Tax Agency if I want that person registered at my address. There are many who testify to what has happened when people have done so. Among other things, I heard that one person had once recorded himself at the Sager Palace without anyone knowing. It may not have been a huge problem – I don't know – but there are many people in Sweden who have perhaps had a criminal person registered at their address and then had huge problems with payment notes that come to the address without they really have a clue who this concerns. We would like you to go into a depression. You have to get a real mission to look at how you could do it. Maria Strömkvist and I have discussed this before, and it is not an easy question. For example, if you live in a rental apartment, it becomes difficult because many live at the same address. But somehow you have to know – mobile bank ID is available today – that a person has changed their home address to yourself. Someone told me that she was told that someone had registered at her address by a letter from UC because someone had ordered something to her address. I would just like to hear what Maria Strömkvist thinks can be done about this.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-577	Madam President, I would like My focus is very much on the protection of women, and the bill contains it. I said at last year's debate that this bill would come, because it was the Social Democrats who pushed through an announcement to the previous government during the previous term of office. The previous government set up an investigation, and now we have the bill. The second question is exactly what Lotta Finstorp is talking about, that is, how we are going to get to grips with people writing themselves on addresses where they actually don't live – and how the person who lives there is going to find out. There will also be a mission to the Swedish Tax Agency from the government, and it is the same thing there: I promise to return. So far, I've kept my promises, so give me another year!
i-5ed94879815bfa43-580	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the e-cigg tax on refill fluids that the government, with the support of the Left Party and the Alliance, wants to introduce. I think this is the first time that we are primarily debating electronic cigarettes in this House. I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation to reject the bill. When we talk about electronic cigarettes, we should remember that the electronic cigarette has very few similarities with the ordinary cigarette. The cigarettes consumed by some 1 billion people worldwide, killing every other user, are tobacco that is burned. When this tobacco is incinerated, an enormous number of dangerous substances are released. Nicotine is a minor problem in this context – cigarettes would not have been a major health problem if it were just about nicotine. The electronic cigarette works quite differently. It contains no tobacco but consists of a battery, a burner and a tank. The tank is filled with e-liquid containing vegetable glycerin, propylene glycol, flavours and – often – nicotine. All substances other than nicotine are authorised food additives. Madam President, I would like The electronic cigarette as we know it today was invented in the early '00s and is today a multi-billion dollar industry globally. The United States and the United Kingdom dominate the market. It is estimated that there are about 20 million users worldwide, or probably a little more than that. The bill proposes that e-liquids should be subject to excise tax of SEK 2 000 per litre while other nicotine-containing products should be taxed at SEK 200 per kilogram. In the latter case, we are talking about so-called heat-not-burn cigarettes, that is, cigarettes with tobacco that are heated but not burned. There is a huge difference proposed between these two types of product. We may think that this is a strange procedure because heat not burn products are not currently on the market. It will therefore be very difficult to know how these taxes beat, which underlines the proposal's lack of proper analysis. What's the rush? I wonder. Madam President, I would like Let me clarify the position of the Swedish Democrats. A tax on e-cigarettes in some form is not unreasonable. Given the current taxation of snus and cigarettes, it is reasonable to assess the need for an e-cigg tax for public health reasons. You could stand here forever and talk about the state of science. We can say that it is exuberant, that there are no long-term studies – longer than three years – and that there are many findings that suggest potential risks. At the same time, there is today a broad consensus in research that electronic cigarettes are far less dangerous than ordinary cigarettes. For example, the British equivalent of the National Board of Health and Welfare carried out a comprehensive survey a few years ago and noted that an e-cigg user receives 95 percent fewer dangerous substances than a cigarette smoker. This is about the same situation as for snuff, although there is much more knowledge of the health aspects. Madam President, I would like Given that researchers agree that electronic cigarettes are a significantly less harmful alternative to cigarette smoking, it is important that a proposal for the introduction of a tax is based on a robust impact assessment. We do not find this to be the case without the proposal being able to bring negative consequences for public health, given that the exchange of cigarettes for healthier alternatives is unlikely to be more expensive, which is why the proposal should be rejected. In this context, it is interesting to look at how the countries with significantly more e-cigarette usage are acting, such as the US, the UK and most of Europe. Today, the vast majority have no tax on e-cigarettes and continue to monitor the development, evaluate and follow the research. It is in these countries that knowledge is greatest. A tax is not a normal state in Europe, in the United States or globally. Madam President, I would like The price of a bottle of ten millilitres of e-liquid is today about SEK 40. The introduction of a tax at this level will increase the price by about 60 percent; it is estimated that the price can land at about SEK 64. It is an enormous increase in prices which reduces the economic incentives to switch from tobacco smoking to the use of a less dangerous product. It can even be a negative incentive. In this context, it may be worth mentioning that I myself have given up cigarettes with the help of e-cigarettes and that almost 10% of my group has succeeded in the same thing. In several countries, such as the United Kingdom, electronic cigarettes are used as an instrument for smoking cessation. This, together with all the stories from people who have managed to quit using e-cigarettes, makes it important to reflect on the need for risk minimisation in the work to reduce smoking. We in Sweden tend to beat our chests because we are the best in the world at combating the harmful effects of smoking, but it is probably not mainly politicians who will beat their chests for this. Of course, knowledge efforts are important, but the most important thing has been the snuff. That is the main reason why we are the best in the class; we should not forget it. Madam President, I would like The background to the tax rate chosen by the government is a completely unscientific conclusion that ten millilitres of e-liquid correspond to 100 regular tobacco cigarettes. This seems to be based on an analysis– I haven't been able to find it – of how the consumption of e-liquid could look at a user at a time when electronic cigarettes had just been introduced to the market, perhaps 10–15 years ago. There has been a technological development during this time, and today there is a variety of products on the market that allow the use of e-liquids to vary very widely in terms of both volume and nicotine strength. It is therefore not possible to say how many cigarettes can be used on every millilitre of e-liquid, but ten millilitres might as well be equivalent to ten ordinary cigarettes for many users today. There is a clear reverse link between liquid consumption and nicotine strength. If you prefer high nicotine, you consume less e-liquid, while users who prefer low nicotine strength prefer increased e-liquid volume. Overall, we can see that there is a lack of a clear picture of the consumption of liquids, and it should reasonably be necessary to produce one before a decision can be taken on an excise duty. The entire analysis of the tax rate chosen is based on the observation that a millilitre of liquid corresponds to a certain number of cigarettes. This analysis is inadequate, which is why the bill is also flawed. The proposed excise duty is designed on the basis of volume and not on the basis of actual nicotine strength, which is a serious deficiency. We would probably have accepted the proposal if this differentiation had existed. The aim of excise duty is to reduce the use of nicotine, which makes the Government's proposal very strange. This will help to sell more liquids with a higher nicotine content and increase the proportion that chooses to mix the liquid with flavours, which will lead to increased health risks. There may be many reasons to introduce a tax on e-liquids and other nicotine-containing products, but such a proposal should take as a starting point that the tax is differentiated by nicotine strength and that the introduction is preceded by a thorough impact assessment.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-601	Madam President, I would like It is with mixed feelings I remember my high school time in Anderslöv, in the countryside of Skåne. The kids who made the daring stuff there – those who were cool and stylish, had designer clothes and drove mop – had a cigarette in their mouths. They hung by the smoke pane, which had been formally removed a long time ago. I didn't, but I remember looking up to them. I wanted to be with them, and it's left a mark on me. The perfumed smell of tobacco smoke can still, 20 years later, make me feel at a disadvantage. Smoking was then not only normalized, but smoking gave status. If anyone wonders what it means by denormalizing smoking, it is precisely to break with this picture. Social acceptance of smoking needs to be reduced. Tomorrow's teenagers should not, like me, look at tobacco smoking as a high-status marker. It's as simple as that, because smoking tobacco is so incredibly dangerous. As many as every other daily smoker dies prematurely. That is why we have set the target of a smoke-free Sweden in 2025. What we do gradually is denormalize smoking. Work on denormalization has long since begun. Non-smoking indoor environments and restrictions on the marketing and labelling of cigarettes are some examples of how politics has made a difference in this regard. The proportion of the population who smoke is falling steadily, but we are not yet in goal. I am proud of the government's public health policy. The government has put forward forward future-oriented proposals, ranging from children and young people being able to move daily and early to establish good lifestyles, to smoking bans in general environments, including outdoor areas. The goal is clear: our public health policy aims to create social conditions for good and equal health throughout the population and to close the real health gaps within a generation. ..................................................... People should be able to live better, healthier lives on equal terms throughout society. Madam President, I would like Today we are debating a tax issue with a clear bearing on public health policy. We do not have excise duties mainly for fiscal reasons, but the aim is to support people to make good decisions about their consumption – good decisions for the individual and good decisions for society. The proposal we are debating today concerns excise duty on tobacco-free but nicotine-containing products, namely nicotine-containing liquids used in electronic cigarettes and nicotine-containing products for use in mouth or noses that do not contain tobacco, of course excluding medicines and nicotine-free liquids for e-cigarette smoking. There are clear indications that e-cigarettes, which is the one of the products concerned which to some extent have established themselves on the Swedish market, attract strong interest from young people. That is why it is good that we have regulated their sale, but that is not enough. To move forward in denormalisation, it is completely unreasonable to continue exempting e-cigarettes from taxation. The use should be restricted because it can act as a step towards tobacco smoking and normalizes smoking itself. Added to this is that all legislation is normative, in that it affects how people view different actions in social contexts. Legislation is the reason why we cross the street when the old man turns green or that we keep the speed limits when driving – or at least the reason we feel a little worse if we go towards red or drive too fast. Thus, a law on the taxation of e-cigarettes does not only help to reduce use by increasing the price of the goods. Such a law also affects people's attitudes. The use of e-cigarettes is denormalised by this legislation. In addition, it should of course also be added that the actual price increase will have a dampening effect on use and that denormalisation is not the only reason why it is positive. As the e-cigarette is a relatively new product, research on its effects is quite sparse. But only in today's news feed is the news of a report from the Sahlgrenska Academy. Two researchers there have done a knowledge review, which says, among other things, that in addition to already knowing that nicotine has chronic health effects on the brain, that young people who smoke e-ciggs to a greater extent than others start with tobacco smoking and that it has relatively low efficiency as smoking cessation. In addition, the World Health Organisation has stated in a report that e-cigarettes are very likely to be less toxic than cigarette smoke, but that e-cigarettes are unlikely to be harmless and that long-term use is expected to increase the risk of COPD, lung cancer and possibly even cardiovascular disease. In addition, the bill only meets nicotine-containing products, which are those to be taxed. Nicotine itself has well-documented health effects and is very addictive. Thus, from a health point of view, it seems a wise choice to avoid smoking e-cigarettes. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, we are going to introduce a tax on tobacco-free nicotine-containing products, because they are bad for public health. They risk helping to normalise smoking. They can become a gateway to nicotine addiction and tobacco smoking, and their use leads to negative effects on their own health. With this, I would like to support the proposal in the Sku17 report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-620	Madam President, I would like Linus Sköld speaks well of the harmful effects of smoking. There is no major health problem in the world today. But I would like to talk a little more about the design of this tax. After all, there is a lack of differentiation in the nicotine content of liquids. Then the question is: Does Linus Sköld think it is better to stimulate people to buy bottles containing 18 milligrams instead of bottles containing 3 milligrams? Is it good if you consume more nicotine because the tax will be the same according to the bill? Then I wonder about the background to the analysis that has been carried out. When it was decided that the tax would be SEK 2 000 per litre, it was assumed that 10 millilitres of liquid correspond to 100 cigarettes. How has this been achieved?
i-5ed94879815bfa43-623	Madam President, I would like I can partly agree with Martin Kinnunen's assertion that a more adequate governance effect would be achieved if the tax could be set on the basis of nicotine content. After weighing different factors against each other, it is clear to the reader of the proposal that consideration has been given to the fact that it would lead to extremely complicated rules, more difficult follow-up and an increased administration that would be costly and inappropriate. At the same time, it is estimated that the regulatory effect on these products will be maintained even if the volume is taxed rather than the nicotine content. It seems smart to minimize administration, have easy and transparent rules and at the same time maintain a good governance effect. Doesn't Martin Kinnunen think so too?
i-5ed94879815bfa43-626	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, the core of this legislation is how much it should cost. The analysis assumes that using electronic cigarettes should not be more expensive than using ordinary cigarettes. Nevertheless, there is such a discussion in the bill. It has been concluded that 10 millilitres of liquid are equivalent to 100 cigarettes. That is a completely unscientific conclusion. Possibly it is based on marketing by some traders who sell e-cigarettes and who want people to buy them. They have marketed themselves by saying that e-cigarettes are so extremely much cheaper. But there is another study that shows that this is true. Looking at the products sold and the pattern of consumption in the surveys carried out by the professional associations, it turns out that this is completely wrong. Nothing can be said about the equivalent of 1 millilitre.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-629	Madam President, I would like According to information from retailers, it has been concluded that 10 millilitres are equivalent to 100 cigarettes. We share the view that the price should not be higher for e-cigarettes than for ordinary cigarettes. If the tax rate had been in parity with how to tax tobacco smoking, the price of each package would have increased from SEK 40 to SEK 236. By then, e-cigarettes would have been taxed eight times harder than what is now the proposal. The taxation that we are proposing is quite much lower than the tax on tobacco smoking. Kinnunen also states that 10 per cent of the Swedish Democrats' parliamentary group have stopped smoking thanks to e-cigarettes. There are 40 members, and it can hardly be called scientific. One should be careful to throw stones in that glass house.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-632	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and, above all, members of the Swedish delegation to the Nordic Council! Let me take this opportunity, as the first speaker and Swedish delegation leader, to thank you for your commitment, for your participation and active work on the Nordic issues during 2017. We do not think as much, but as delegation leaders, I am proud of how we all, together with our political friends in the Nordic region, have driven issues that are important for each of us and also with a clear citizen focus and a desire to achieve Nordic benefit. The delegation does not have many months left in its present form and ahead of a momentary election it feels very good to address a broad and warm thank you to all of you. I would also like to extend particular warm thanks to those Members who do not stand for re-election with Vice-President Andersson at the head. As the tradition dictates, the chairman is taken from the opposition side to the Nordic Council delegation, while the government side has the vice-chairman. I therefore hope that, after the elections, we will be able to hand over to a new President who does not represent the Alliance. It's time for a red-green president. Madam President, I would like For me, it is natural to take my starting point in a deteriorating security situation in our neighbourhood. The challenges facing us in the Baltic and Arctic regions need common solutions. This has also been reflected in the issues dealt with by the Nordic Council in the past year 2017. During the theme session in Stockholm, many issues related to the growing concern in the world were debated. Many felt that it was particularly important to highlight Nordic values in the troubled times in which we now live, and I really share that view. The current debate was about the USA and the Nordic countries, where we from my group pointed out that it is important not only to look at the problems. We must also look at what unites us. Together, we must safeguard a world based on law, not a world divided into spheres of interest. We must also safeguard free trade that creates growth and prosperity. We don't get rich by building walls and turning inwards, we get rich by building bridges and cooperating with each other. At the moment, there is every reason to regret that the free trade and investment agreement between the US and the EU, the TTIP, did not reach its goal. During the current debate, Norway's then Nordic Minister for Cooperation Frank Bakke-Jensen-Jensen also noted that Norway's NATO membership contributed to predictability in the north and created a basis for broader cooperation also with Russia. Anyone who remembers the mini-session in Stockholm will also recall the rather extensive exchange of views about NATO, which among other things I had with the leader of the Left Party Jonas Sjöstedt. In Stockholm, a number of reports were also debated and discussed. Among other things, the Conservative Group's proposal for a review of Nord Stream 2. This is an important issue for the Nordic countries. Europe does not need more Russian gas, but less. Nord Stream 2 increases dependence on Russian gas completely against the principles of the EU Energy Union to reduce dependency on a supplier. Allowing Russia to have additional political pressure through access to energy is directly wrong. My group's proposal was that the Nordic governments should critically examine the planned Nord Stream 2 gas pipelines. environmental, security, defence and foreign policy aspects. Unfortunately, among other things, the Social Democrats opposed this proposal. I'm sorry about that. The left-green group with Håkan Svenneling, among others, supported our proposal. It honors them. I also think that over the years the Red-Green Government has shown slowness and meekness in this matter. Denmark is now faced with an important decision when Nord Stream is to be tested on the basis that the pipeline is also drawn on their territorial waters. A clearer attitude from the Swedish Government and the Nordic Council, for example, could have been an important support for and assistance to Denmark in the current situation. Madam President, I would like A 100-year anniversary Finland received the Nordic Council at the autumn session at the end of October and at the beginning of November. Finland is to be congratulated on a grand celebration throughout 2017. Now this is also being taken further by focusing on the 100th anniversary celebrations in 2018, i.e. this year, taking place in our important Nordic neighbours Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. They are certainly not part of the Nordic region, but they are part of our Nordic-Baltic community of values and historical community. Border barriers issues were highlighted through a thematic debate on the Nordic region as the world's most integrated region with trust as a common strength and with border barriers at the top of the agenda. Just trust as a special advantage has been highlighted in the Nordic cooperation. What is the basis for success in the Nordic countries? For my part, I believe that the trust that has been built up over decades and centuries is an extremely important social capital that must not be wasted. At the beginning of the debate on peace mediation during the Helsinki session, the Peace Prize winner and former President Martti Martti spoke. I shall take with me two parts of his speech and take part in the debate. First of all, Ahtisaari challenged Nordic parliamentarians to defend and promote Nordic values every day. He himself felt that he would not have reached so far in the field of peace mediation without these Nordic roots and values. But above all, Mrs Ahtisaari said that Finland should be a member of all Western democratic organisations, and mentioned NATO. Mrs Ahtisaari's own words were that NATO and the Western countries sometimes threaten Russia militarily, but I must point out to them that this is not true, that NATO is a defence organisation and the best peace-keeping organisation with which I have worked, and that the deterioration of relations between the West and Russia, which is partly reflected on these issues, was due to Russia attacking an independent country, Ukraine, against all the principles of international law and order. ..................................................... This is what a former Social Democratic Finnish President said. Let this ring in everyone's ears! For those of us who do not seek the war but want to secure peace, the conclusions of the Peace Prize winner Ahtisaari are of greater weight than home-cooked Swedish theories. Madam President, I would like One of my group's proposals was for debate and decision in Helsinki. A few years ago we in the Nordic countries had large refugee flows. The fact that refugees and asylum seekers who are then granted a residence permit also get a job is extremely important. Among other things, we want the Nordic countries to start an exchange of information and proposals on how the countries handle refugees and immigrants in the labour market. We also want resources to be allocated for research and analysis in the field of how to get refugees to enter the Nordic labour market. The Nordic Council decided to recommend that the Nordic Council of Ministers implement the proposals submitted by us. Madam President, I would like We also want to see increased Nordic cooperation on total defence, crisis and supply planning. The Nordic countries share not only history but also geography. We have been developing good forms of cooperation in defence for a long time. It is therefore important that the Nordic countries strengthen their defence cooperation among themselves and review the possibilities to deepen cooperation on the countries' total defence, preparedness and crisis planning. We also want to see strengthened Nordic cooperation on cyber defence and a Nordic collaboration on digitalisation in higher education and research. All these proposals are of benefit to the Nordic countries. It is gratifying that these members' proposals have received a warm reception across party boundaries. Madam President, I would like The work of the Nordic Council is not just sessions. At the beginning of autumn, our party group visited Lithuania and Vilnius for meetings with, among others, Lithuania's Minister for Defence Raimundas Karoblis, who expressed appreciation for our group's efforts to achieve a Nordic rejection of Nord Stream 2. One who also shared the view of Nord Stream 2 was Lithuania's Foreign Minister Linas's Linkevi č ís, that is, once again a Social Democrat who shares my and Moderate views on NATO. Madam President, I would like I have touched on the refugee crisis in the past. It also affected free movement in the Nordic countries. At the beginning of May, the government decided to extend border controls at internal borders. We Moderates believe that they should continue to apply. Here the government has a great responsibility to ensure that border controls continue. Unfortunately, it is difficult to know exactly what line the Social Democrats are taking: the party leadership says it is the last to stand behind or the one to be squared by, for example, the SSU and the S-women. At the same time, the Öresund region is adversely affected by current controls against Denmark. Pendlers, other travellers and Sweden's and Denmark's single labour market created by the good relations are affected by this on a daily basis. We must therefore cooperate with Denmark so that controls affect commuters and other travellers as little as possible. Could we perhaps have joint control between Denmark and Germany? One cannot have this division of a Nordic region and a labour market region that now exists between Skåne and Själland, between Sweden and Denmark. Madam President, I would like As part of a deeper Nordic cooperation on total defence, the Moderates want the opportunity to collaborate on news coverage in Russian to be taken into account. We also want Sweden to continue to be the driving force for environmental and security issues to be prioritised in the Arctic Council and for Sweden, due to the deteriorating security policy situation in the Arctic and the Baltic Sea region, to develop a new clear Arctic strategy that takes into account the region's security policy importance including the fight for resources and a functioning infrastructure. I would like to ask you to accept reservation No 1 in paragraph 1. I would like to reiterate my thanks to the Swedish delegation for the work of the past year.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-657	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Nordic cooperation. I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation 2. Like the President, I would like to begin by thanking the rest of the Swedish delegation for their good and constructive work in the past year. In our northern hemisphere, in the northernmost of Europe, the Nordic countries form a family with deep relationships and common frame of reference. The Nordic region is in the order of the world's eleventh largest economy. Our neighbours are some of our most important trading partners and we are theirs. The Nordic countries are the Nordic model, the common cultural expressions and cross-border cooperation. The Nordic region is the Scandinavian language understanding and common values around the welfare state and social safety nets. The Nordic countries are common history and cultural heritage, but also vibrant cross-border labour market regions and voluntary exchange of ideas today. Nordic cooperation has entered a new phase. Not since before EU entry has interest in it climbed on the agenda as we can see today. We have a Nordic coordinator in the EU and a smoking recent report on how we can better solve border barriers between our countries at an earlier stage, which would benefit the Nordic citizens in work commuting and moving chains. The Government writes in its introductory words about the Nordic prime ministers' vision that the Nordic region should be the most integrated region in the world. This is a very positive approach that we share. But in our follow-up motion we clearly point out areas that can be seriously done more to reach. It also mentions this year's Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers, the Council of the Baltic Sea States and the Barents Council, cooperation bodies where we see Nordic benefits. It is also to be welcomed that, in preparation for the planning of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, the Government involved the Swedish delegation in the Nordic Council in the discussions. Close dialogue between the government and the opposition and the Minister for Cooperation and the parliamentary delegation is essential for parliamentary anchoring and stability. The Swedish Democrats are very positive about the role and cooperation of the Nordic countries in the world, not least the Nordic-Baltic cooperation, as has already been mentioned, between the Nordic countries and the Baltic states. Through Swedish co-ordination responsibility 2018, the N5 co-operation can further strengthen and increase the presence and co-operation between the Nordic countries and the Baltic States. This is particularly true in the light of the uncertainty that now characterises Russia's neighbourhood. The close relationship between the Nordic countries and the Baltic States can and should be underlined and developed on several levels. Let me give you an example. In April, I was with the Baltic Assembly's Committee on Culture and Education. I was invited as Vice-Chairman of the Nordic Council's Culture and Education Committee to present and discuss how the Nordic Culture Fund came about. The Baltic States now want to create and establish something similar in the form of a Baltic cultural fund. On the same day that we landed in Riga, a survey was presented which showed that nearly 70 per cent of Baltic citizens wanted increased cooperation with the Nordic countries and the Nordic countries. It bodes well. A fundamental factor in the fact that the Nordic countries are at all so closely linked is our ability to communicate with each other. Language understanding and communication in the Nordic languages is a key factor in the Nordic community and cooperation. A strong understanding of language serves as a lubricant for our common communication and reduces transaction costs in trade, while contributing to labour market integration and cultural and educational policy cooperation. Several of the Nordic languages are closely related and of course relatively easy by residents of other Nordic countries, which is unique. The fact that the Nordic Council also encourages and encourages communication in the Nordic languages during joint sessions and meetings is very positive and helps to strengthen language understanding between parliamentarians. At the same time, we can note that the Nordic language understanding is in a fragile position, as it decreases among younger generations. In particular, Sweden's position in Finland is declining. We see it as important in principle to emphasise the uniqueness and inviolable value of all the Nordic languages, but at the same time we want to promote increased efforts to strengthen and improve the Nordic language understanding from the school age through efforts. Within the Nordic Council, Scandinavians have long been established as working languages. The Swedish Democrats see the importance of Scandinavians having a strong position and continuing to have it, but at the same time believe that the agreement made to strengthen the position of Finnish and Icelandic is important, not least symbolically. Achieving a common working language makes it easier and has many advantages. Improvements must also be made to enable the status of the Finnish and Icelandic languages to be dealt with under similar conditions, without bringing them closer to English as a working language. Madam President, I would like The Nordic region has long been – and is increasingly moving towards – a common market for goods, services and capital, but the regulations are in many ways still designed on the basis that citizens and companies move within the same Nordic country. However, the removal of unnecessary border barriers is a high priority objective in Nordic cooperation. Each year a number of unjustified border barriers between countries are also removed. The Swedish Democrats are pleased that the Ministers for Cooperation have decided on a new mandate for the Border Barriers Council and that it is on the table, so that more border barriers can be dealt with and solved in the future. But we see a general problem in the fact that the removal of border barriers all too often begins at the wrong end – retroactively. It is high time we turned the problem around. Border barriers must start to be resolved proactively. Therefore, we also have a sharp request in this year's follow-up motion to investigate the conditions for establishing and establishing a Nordic Legislative Council that can jointly scan the inflow of new future legislation and coordinate us, so that unnecessary border barriers are not raised and then need to be dismantled. This is also a proposal made in the report submitted to the Council of Ministers proposing ways to strengthen proactive border barriers. Madam President, I would like We say 'yes' to Nordic integration and 'no' to EU federalism. Next year there will be elections to the European Parliament. We believe that we must seriously start discussing a renegotiation of EU membership and what a long-term Swedish withdrawal from the EU should be. We want it to be followed by deeper, closer and more long-term cooperation between the Nordic countries – cultural, security, social and economic. Not only are we leaving something destructive behind at such a stage, but we are developing another, more constructive cooperation on a proven basis. The North's thing is ours!
i-5ed94879815bfa43-671	Madam President, I would like The Nordic cooperation, the government's letter and the Swedish delegation's story are discussed in this report, among other things. Staffan Danielsson will later in the debate give a clearer insight into the Swedish delegation's work from the perspective of the middle group. For the Center Party, this is clear. We are pleased to see a broad consensus on the importance of Nordic cooperation. The Nordic region, our region, with prosperity, openness, security and cooperation, developed through free trade and abolished border barriers, we could talk about as the display window of liberal democracy towards the world. It is something worth highlighting and reminding of. Not least in these times, it is important to develop coordination and further deepen our cooperation in order to make it clearer, and then, as we point out, towards other international organisations. It is also important that we improve mobility between our countries, which has been one of the success factors. It was tragic, Madam President, when ID controls were reintroduced between Nordic countries, between Sweden and Denmark. It was a sad day for Nordic cooperation. May this end! Madam President, I would like The security of the Nordic countries has previously been affected. This report does not highlight these issues. It does not highlight the NATO discussion or anything else, because it concerns the letter from the government, the work of the delegation and the motions that exist. If you read the report, it is clear that these issues are not included in this debate. That is why I now also choose not to focus on them, although I think they are important. However, the report concerns not only the Nordic Council, but also the Arctic and Barent cooperation. It's not least important. There, Madam President, there are only motions, no statements from the government. I could have read aloud from the debate on 6 March 2014 in this House, but I am abstaining. At that time, the alliance government was strongly criticised by social democrats, environmentalists and left-wing parties, after Sweden had presented a strategy for the Arctic region for the first time before the Presidency of the Arctic Council in 2011, a strategy that could be followed up. Even the Swedish National Audit Office looked at this in two reviews. Today, when Sweden, under a government with the Social Democrats and the Green Party, is re-chaired, reference is made, Madam President, precisely to this Swedish strategy of 2011. It's worth noting. It is also worth noting that the Government has not provided a report on the work of the Arctic Council and the Barents Council. This can be clearly read in the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. We have gathered from the Committee on Foreign Affairs in four reports, no later than 2015/16 and 2016/17, that we want to see a report on the work of the Nordic Council. Then, Madam President, we have gathered together not to demand a separate annual letter, which, in the meantime, social democrats and left-wing parties clearly argued for and pushed for. We have been open to this being done in cooperation and in the report made by the Government on the work of the Nordic Council of Ministers. But of this we have seen nothing. Here, there is also reason to emphasise once again that the Swedish National Audit Office reviewed the strategy and our work in the Arctic Council and pointed to the importance of prioritising transparent and clear targets that can be followed up. It also stressed the importance of the Parliament receiving regular information, as has already been demanded several times by Parliament. The government was behind this, and the government has not since had any other meaning. There is reason to stress in this debate that the Government must ensure that we get a report on the work of the Arctic Council, but not to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but to this House, so that this House has the opportunity to assess how priority has been given and how responsibility has been handled by the Government in the Arctic Council. With this in mind, Madam President, I support the Center Party's reservation No 3 under paragraph 1. Of course, I also support the reservation on the Arctic Council, which we have every reason to come back to later in the debate. We shall wait with it, Madam President.
i-MmhYptEPNhEZvsD7M8fHmH	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Nordic region. The report deals with the Government's letter Nordic cooperation in 2017 and the Swedish delegation's report for 2017. Of course, this report also deals with motion requests from members of the Nordic countries. In this speech, I will focus on the work on border barriers, on which the Christian Democrats have been exercising, and more specifically on the relationship with our neighbour Denmark, as the Committee on Foreign Affairs has recently deepened its work through meetings in Parliament and with journalists and academics who follow and research in our countries' relations. Nordic cooperation is based on strong popular support and common values in terms of democracy, justice, transparency and the importance of the rule of law. In many ways Nordic cooperation is unique in an international comparison. Nordic cooperation is politically, economically and culturally anchored. The Nordic welfare model, that no one should end up outside society's safety net, is something that many other countries look up to and to some extent taken after. Madam President, I would like But Nordic cooperation must have real added value. This must enable us to face up to future challenges together. If we do not succeed in this, our Nordic collaboration loses its legitimacy. The Christian Democrats therefore urge the government to continue to be the driving force for reforming our Nordic cooperation to become as effective and relevant as possible. It should also be taken into account that, today, our countries meet in far more international arenas than once when cooperation was initiated. We believe that we would have much more to gain by better coordinating in the various international bodies in which we operate. Together, we are a strong economic and political force, and we should be able to coordinate considerably better. Even if, for example, we are not all in the European Union, we could join forces in the important debate that is now going on about what we want with Europe's future. We Christian Democrats want strong and united Nordic cooperation where we meet not only by tradition but because we believe that our community has a strength. We must dare to let go of areas where our cooperation may no longer have as much added value. In budgetary terms, we believe that the important discussions taking place in the Nordic cooperation could be conducted in a more cost-effective way than today. We must be able to strengthen areas where we can become a better region together, simplify work and entrepreneurship, researchers and carers. Madam President, I would like This leads me to the problem of border barriers. At the end of the day, it is this work that will lay the foundation for how successful our Nordic cooperation will be. The Border Barriers Council was established in 2014 by the Nordic governments with the task of eliminating existing border barriers between the Nordic countries and preventing the emergence of new barriers. It is extremely important that this advice exists. It facilitates the measurability of the efforts made to facilitate the everyday lives of people living and working in border regions. All in all, eight border barriers were solved or removed in 2017. This is a good thing. Although these particular ones may not represent a revolution for cooperation, this will make it easier for individual citizens. However, it is important that the ambition level is raised in the renewed mandate of the Border Barriers Council for the period 2018 to 2021. The Council is now going to clarify more border barriers each year, with a particular emphasis on border barriers affecting business. This focus is quite right. Madam President, I would like I support the Christian Democrats' reservation No 4 which relates precisely to a focused Nordic cooperation and an intensification of border barriers. More specifically, with regard to border barriers solutions in the Öresund region, this work has, of course, been made more difficult by ID checks and border controls. In last year's debate on the Nordic region, I criticised the wording of the government's letter, which stressed that relations with Denmark were very good and that close contacts had been made with the Danish authorities on the occasion of the introduction of ID checks and border controls in the Öresund region. I called for a slightly more honest picture and for the hope that the focus must now be on regaining trust in future. Madam President, I would like Has relations between Sweden and Denmark improved? Unfortunately, if there were major shortcomings in the communication and forward planning of Swedish border controls, there was a new example at the end of last year when it was time to vote on the location of the new European Medicines Agency (EMA). Sweden was a candidate for Stockholm, but was eliminated in the first round of voting. The second round was between Milan, Amsterdam and Copenhagen. It is thought then that the only reasonable thing for Sweden should have been to give its support to Copenhagen, but unfortunately this was not the case. Örestad, where EMA would have been placed if Copenhagen won, is located 20 minutes from Malmö and Hyllie and 45 minutes from Lund Central. Of course, such a placement would have benefited the Öresund region, Skåne and Sweden. Surely the Nordic cooperation could have handled this situation better? Madam President, I would like To clarify: the Christian Democrats are, of course, behind both our reservations, but for the gain of time I only ask for reservation No 4 under paragraph 1.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-692	Madam President, I would like I will be talking, above all, about the past year of operation in the Nordic Council. In his speech, Mr Niemi will touch on the motions and reservations that have been dealt with in the report or in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The Nordic region consists of five countries and three autonomous areas. Our countries may be small, but together we are 27 million inhabitants. We live in both large and vibrant capitals, in smaller towns, in sparsely populated areas and on islands. Our societies are relatively similar and are based on fundamental values such as democracy, equality and human rights. Our cooperation has existed for a long time and has a broad popular base. This is shown not least in the new report A valuable collaboration: The Nordic population's view of the Nordic region is based on interviews with 3,000 people around the Nordic region. Over 90 per cent believe that Nordic cooperation is important or very important. Developments in the world seem to have influenced attitudes towards the Nordic countries. Defence and security issues are today one of the main areas of cooperation identified in the report. Young people think that education is important. A clear majority of respondents want our cooperation to be intensified. Many also felt that the opportunity to use the entire region for work, studies and housing is the great advantage of our cooperation. It is gratifying that our citizens are in favour of cooperation and that it is valuable. In order for our Nordic residents to be able to work, study, live and operate companies throughout the region, it is important to continue our work to reduce the number of border barriers. For example, we Social Democrats have presented a motion in the Riksdag where we want to review the possibility of reviewing new legislation concerning, among other things, the Nordic labour market before new laws are in place to avoid new border barriers. It is important to bring the issue of border barriers back to our parliament in order to remove border barriers but also to avoid new ones arising. The Social Democrats have been an active group during the year. I will highlight some of the issues that we have raised. We have continued to work with Poul Nielson's report Arbejdsliv in the Nordic countries – outwards og Förslag. Last year we arranged a round table discussion with the trade union movement on the report. We also invited to seminars on social dumping in all the Nordic countries and produced a membership proposal proposing that the Nordic governments gather around a common policy in the fight against social dumping in the EU. Digitalisation is another issue on which the Nordic Council has worked during the year. Rapid technological development means new conditions, needs and opportunities for our Nordic societies. This is indeed an opportunity to make use of it, and it is positive if we keep up with technological developments. It can provide increased opportunities for both our citizens, authorities and businesses. There are more members' proposals on digitalisation. That's good, because it's a wide area. The Social Democrats have put forward a proposal to make the Nordic countries indicative within 5G with a focus on welfare technology. If this becomes a reality, welfare technology will be able to follow the user in a completely different way than it is today, regardless of the time and place. Today, technology is usually tied up, usually to the home. During its Swedish Presidency year 2018, the Nordic Council of Ministers has digitised the programme. We would like to take this opportunity to thank the Nordic Council for our influence in the programme and for our participation. When the ministers met in Örnsköldsvik this week, they also had digitalisation on their agenda. Yesterday, a seminar was held under the auspices of the Nordic Council on the challenges and opportunities of the digital society. So this is an issue that is constantly on the agenda and will be so for a long time to come. It is important that we take part in seeing this from a human perspective and see how it can be useful. During the autumn, several members of the Socialist Group in the Nordic Council made a study trip to Svalbard. It was an interesting and educational journey, but I have to say that I feel an increased concern about environmental issues and developments at Svalbard. The ice melts, and the temperature increases. This may lead, among other things, to an increase in sea levels and to large differences. The area is exploited for professional fishing and oil extraction. This should also be given extra attention, because it can in turn lead to an impact on the unique ecosystem that exists on Svalbard. Among other things, the Helsinki session dealt with a proposal for a member to approve the national languages of all the Nordic countries as official working languages in the Nordic Council instead of Scandinavian, as stated in the Helsinki Agreement today. This question has turned out to be more and more topical, as Iceland and Finland point out that the interpretation that is being offered today is not enough, and as fewer and fewer people read Swedish in Finland and fewer and fewer people read Danish in Iceland. Language understanding has been one of the cornerstones of Nordic cooperation, and it is an issue that needs to be resolved in the best way. Interpretation costs in the Nordic Council are constantly increasing, but it is also important to take into account the availability of interpreters when solving the issue. You have to look at whether the technology can be used more efficiently and so on. There are many issues that need to be highlighted in the investigation work that is now taking place. The cooperation shown by all parties in the Nordic Council at the session in Helsinki and the respect with which all political parties negotiated with each other took place under the leadership of Hans Wallmark. I must pay tribute to him for the good work of bringing together something in order to find a solution that will be good for everyone. This is perhaps, in my opinion, politics at its best: when we dare to deal with difficult issues and sensitive issues, put prestige aside and try to find a good solution. The issue will now finally be resolved at the next session in Oslo, and I wish you the best of luck – you who will be involved in taking this decision. Finally, I would like to say that it was a pleasure to be involved in celebrating Finland's 100 years as an independent state. Among other things, this took place here in the Riksdag. It was also fitting that the session happened to be in Helsinki. When I am standing here, I would also like to thank you for a good Nordic cooperation, as this is my last Nordic debate here in Parliament. As generously as Hans thanked me, I want to thank him. I look forward to seeing a moderate in the presidency and a social democrat who can go in sometimes when Hans does not have time or has double assignments and so on. I think that's just the right thing to do. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Office for the service we Members have received, because it is very important for us to be able to work effectively in our political mission in the Nordic region. It is, in fact, a precondition. So thank you for that, Lena with staff! Having said that, Madam President, I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the motions. As I said, Mr Pyry in his speech will highlight this further.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-712	Madam President, I would like We know that the annual Nordic debate in this House is usually a bit special and different from other debates. It will be a little bit of Arja Saijonmaa and I want to thank life. This is because it is a particularly good atmosphere. It is also noted when you notice that a number of Members are going over the speaking time. There are so many things you want to tell about Nordic cooperation. It is also about what Mr Phia said and which is central, Madam President, namely that behind the fact that there are differences and differences and that we are running various proposals, there is also a great deal of consensus on the importance of Nordic cooperation. That's why the debates are getting a little weird. On the one hand, you should point out what your own group has done, on the other hand, you should point out how important it is that we work together with other northerners. As Phia also says, these are five independent states and three autonomous areas. I would really like to underline how much I have appreciated working with Phia Andersson as Vice-President. She will now leave Parliament in connection with this year's elections. I would have preferred her to have been chairman instead of me, but she has carried the chair at several meetings when I have not been present. Now I thought I'd come up with a distinct question. This is likely to be the last change of line Phia Andersson and I will have, Madam President. Phia Andersson referred to the story of the Swedish delegation of the Nordic Council, and that is also what we are discussing. It is one of the two main letters on which the Committee on Foreign Affairs has based its report. I have just one question: how is it that the Social Democrats chose not to vote in favour of our proposal when it came to examining Nord Stream 2 from environmental, security, defence and foreign policy aspects? This is an important issue, and it would have given Denmark a great deal of support. Why did the Social Democrats not want to support our proposal in the strongest possible terms?
i-5ed94879815bfa43-718	Madam President, I would like This is a favorite replay, Hans. We stood and debated exactly the same thing a year ago. Then we said that you look at and prepare the question in the government. Sometimes you should wait for answers, and sometimes you break open doors. I know you threw the issue out at the session in Denmark. Then it became a big deal. Then you wish everyone to follow it and do just as you had decided it would be. This is not the case, but the issue requires preparation. There is also a preparation, and you look at the question. You yourselves were not at all very active in the past. Perhaps you then had a better understanding that such an issue is extremely important. It is important to have many different aspects in it, and so it is sometimes good not to just follow the one who shouts the loudest.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-721	Madam President, I would like Basically, I think this is really an extremely important issue for the Nordic countries. It is a central challenge. In addition, we now know that the issue will not only have an administrative and procedural review in Sweden, but will also be examined in Denmark. There, the people have expressly decided that Nord Stream 2 can be tested also on the basis of security policy aspects. It runs through Danish territorial waters. This means that it is an extra weight that is now on the shoulders of the Danish Government. I believe, then, that we Northers should have clearly indicated in solidarity that we stand up behind those countries which also have the legal conditions to say stop and halt when it comes to the drawing of Nord Stream 2. There is a difference between how we deal with the issue in Sweden and in Denmark. I therefore believe that Sweden would have shown leadership by being one of the heavy countries that are trying to form a coalition in Europe and in the Baltic Sea region and that it would have used all the bodies that exist to help you say just that. The Nordic Council is such an important platform. I also think that is reasonable. We also said that we would see this from the whole range of aspects – environment, security, defence and foreign policy aspects. That is why I would nevertheless like to emphasise that I find it regrettable that the Social Democrats in the Nordic Council wasted this opportunity to support our proposal as the left-wing Green Group did. This is about showing political leadership in our neighbourhood. You couldn't do that, and I'm sorry.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-725	Madam President, I would like When it was decided on this matter, it was not ready. It is a complex issue that really requires that all the aspects that Mr Wallmark is reading are taken into account. But if everything were to go at Hans Wallmark's pace, we would have joined NATO a long time ago. Nevertheless, there are aspects that suggest not to do so. There we may think differently. There is a certain degree of deafness, I would say in pure Swedish, at Hans Wallmark. He can get the same answer many times, but he can't hear them if he doesn't like them. It's a flaw. Even if I like you in different ways, it's a flaw you have, Hans Wallmark. I think you're gonna work on that.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-726	Madam President, honourable Members and other speakers. Nordic cooperation between parliamentarians as well as between ministers, within the framework of the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers, is happily enjoying broad cross-party support. Then it is hardly the case that the general public follows the activities of the Nordic cooperation bodies with too much interest, so here we politicians have an urgent task to bring out what is actually going on. Similarly, we have an inviting task to develop and deepen Nordic cooperation in a way that hopefully will increase interest in this. I don't see any limit to how far Nordic cooperation can be deepened over time. We are living in an uncertain time with a stubborn American President who declares trade war against large parts of the world and denounces international agreements that are crucial to peace and the climate. In our own continent, EU cooperation is challenged both by Brexit and by the development of society in a highly authoritarian direction in countries such as Hungary and Poland. And beyond the borders of the EU, events are even more marked by regressive, new authoritarian developments from Belarus to China. Madam President, I would like Towards this horizon of rather dark clouds, the Nordic model of society appears as a glow of light. Our five countries plus self-governing regions have managed in a unique way to combine an internationally high degree of equality with an innovative industry where climate and environmental requirements are increasingly driving technological development. This sees the outside world and takes the impression. Recurrent reporting in international media depicts the Nordic region as a subsequent alternative to the Anglo-Saxon model that took shape under Reagan and Thatcher in the United States and the United Kingdom and has led to growing divides and weakened democracy where a new superclass of extremely rich individuals sponsors politicians who continue to lower taxes and sell out public property. In state-capitalist China, too, interest in Nordic welfare systems is increasing as the population there ages and in line with growing ambitions to expand social safety nets that also include the many millions of internal migrants. Whether in time this will also bring a Chinese interest in Nordic traditions in the areas of freedom of the press and freedom of expression remains to be seen. Madam President, I would like If we raise our eyes from all the small and big problems that naturally characterize life in the Nordic countries too, we should perhaps sometimes afford to also feel joy that we live in communities where residents experience exceptionally much trust in each other and where corruption is lower than anywhere else in the world, which provides good conditions for achieving a broad array of forces to face climate change and show the world that fossil-free welfare communities are a highly feasible utopia. Not only in the Nordic countries and in the Nordic cooperation agencies, but also in the wider world, there is added value in the Nordic countries acting as a global player when possible and, for example, within the UN system, press for the ambitious Agenda 2030 to be followed by action at the level of the challenges. Of the eight countries that are part of the Arctic Council, five belong to the Nordic region, and by putting climate and environmental issues at the heart of Arctic cooperation, we can just act as a not insignificant global player. Safeguarding respect for indigenous peoples' rights and living conditions is another important task for the work of Sweden and other Nordic countries in the Arctic Council. Of course, this is closely linked to how environmental and natural resource issues are addressed. Madam President, I would like The melting polaris are creating completely new conditions for both trade and natural resource exploitation as well as military activities. Sustainable development requires respect for the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and other international law, and sensitive Arctic nature, with its fragile ecosystem, needs enhanced protection. There is valuable work going on, including within the EU, to support the establishment of marine protected areas in the Arctic. Perhaps the efforts in various parts of the world to give nature its own rights, so to speak, to make nature a legal entity, can inspire environmental work in the Arctic as well. It is really unreasonable and untenable that Russian, American and Chinese, or indeed Norwegian, oil companies should be granted rights while the nature on which we are all completely dependent still lacks rights in most countries and regions on our planet. If the Paris Agreement's climate goals are to be achieved, the great fossil deposits must remain untouched at the bottom of the Arctic Ocean. In this context, the general interest – in clear terms, an inhabitable planet for animals and humans – must continue to weigh more heavily than the interest in the profit of resourceful special interests. In 2018, Sweden will be chairing the Barents Council, and will be given the opportunity to cultivate inter-folk contacts in areas such as culture and scientific exchange between Russia and the Nordic region, instead of creating enemy images. We are also President of the Council of the Baltic Sea States and, at a time of increasing tensions in the region, the revitalisation of this forum appears to be an urgent task. Madam President, I would like Finally, I support the proposal in the report and reject the motions.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-735	Madam President, I would like The opportunity was now given to meet with Valter Mutt again in an exchange of views on the Arctic Council and the work carried out there. The last time we had a debate, Valter Mutt was not present, and that means that I now feel I need to ask a question. What does Valter Mutt think about Sweden's strategy for the Arctic region? What does Valter Mutt think of it today? It is the basis for the government's work now as chairman of the Arctic Council. So what is Valter Mutt's picture of this strategy?
i-5ed94879815bfa43-736	Madam President, I would like It is now, of course, the Nordic cooperation that the report is today mainly concerned with. I am grateful if Kerstin Lundgren can clarify the issue. It is clear that what is written in the Government's paper on Arctic work is something that I, as a foreign policy spokesperson for one of the government parties, support. I don't really understand your question, so you're welcome to specify it a little.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-737	Madam President, I would like Last time this strategy was discussed with Valter Mutt in this House, he regarded it as voodoo. He didn't understand it. But now I hear it's not voodoo. Valter Mutt and the Green Party are now in favour of the strategy that he has criticised so strongly in the past. It is a strategy developed by the Alliance Government when we were chairman of the Arctic Council. It is a strategy that has not been renewed by the government or Valter Mutt before the new Presidency. That's interesting. Madam President, I would like It is also valuable to see that what has complemented this Swedish strategy of 2011 is this small memo, which I am now showing to the Members of this House. It came from the government on 25 January 2016 and is about a new Swedish environmental policy for the Arctic. It contains nothing about Arctic moratoriums on natural resources, such as oil and gas extraction. Last time, Valter Mutt and the Green Party felt that a ten-year moratorium should be called for. Now I do not hear it, Madam President. Valter Mutt and the Environmental Party are now behind the alliance government's Swedish strategy for the Arctic region. There are many good suggestions in the strategy to work for. The concern is that Valter Mutt and the government have not ensured that the Riksdag is evaluated so that we have the opportunity to follow up how this government works with regard to the goals we have set for the Arctic region.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-742	Madam President, I would like Of course you can push yourself into dividing lines. On the contrary, I am pleased that both the former and the present government have such a long-standing consensus on the part of the world in which we live, the Arctic. But yes, if you are a conflict-seeking politician you are happy to enlarge the differences in a disproportionate way in my opinion. We have no problem with such a letter from the government. But today, as I said, it is a report called the Nordic countries that we are debating.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-745	Madam President, I would like We in the Left Party see great potential in developing Nordic cooperation across our borders. We have a lot in common and would all benefit from developing cooperation. Many times we can solve problems and barriers to borders, develop collaboration and develop strategies for the challenges of the future in a better way in the Nordic countries than if we try to solve the problems ourselves each time or run to the EU Member States, which still disagree when the problems are to be solved. When we run to Europe, we also forget our neighbours Norway and Iceland. New for this year is that we have reshaped our left-wing group in the Nordic Council, now called the Nordic Green Left. There we gather red and green parties in the Nordic countries who are fighting for a fairer world where we take greater climate consideration. We have members from all Nordic countries and from the autonomous areas of Greenland and the Faroe Islands. And I have the privilege of chairing this group of good parliamentarians. Over the past year, the Nordic Green Left has reaped several successes. We have received approval for our motions on matters as diverse as shipping, LGBT people's rights, nuclear weapons and the working environment. But the biggest success for the left last year was probably the changed governance in Iceland. There, Katr í n Jakobsd ó tt i r took over as Prime Minister after many years of turbulence and scandals in Icelandic politics. The problems are not supposed to be completely over now for the new unity government that has been formed a little unconventionally together with the Icelandic Centre and the Icelandic Moderates. It's gonna be tough to turn around. However, it is in any case a clear turning point in Icelandic politics, which will now seek to regain the confidence of its citizens. One who met Katr í n the day before yesterday was Prime Minister Löfven, who, together with his Nordic colleagues, visited beautiful Ulvön in Västernorrland. It's a place I had the privilege of visiting as late as Friday. Sweden is currently chairing the Nordic Council of Ministers. And next year it will be our turn in Parliament to chair the Nordic Council. Then it is important that we take the lead shirt to strengthen cooperation in the Nordic countries. Madam President, I would like I was going to tell you about an example of the proposals that we have pushed through. I read in my local newspaper about the Norwegian couple Merethe and Ylva Kleiven. Their children Eivor and Anker are both born in Norway through assisted fertilization. But when the family moved to Sweden, Ylva and Merethe were no longer considered parents of their children. Over the past few decades, all Nordic countries have made great progress in sex policy in order for everyone to have better rights. But it is clear that there is a lack of a Nordic perspective on the issue in order to facilitate movement across our borders. Relationships and family formation of same-sex couples should be recognised in all Nordic countries. All Nordic countries should have legislation based on human rights and that all citizens should be treated equally before the law, regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity. In the Nordic countries we are formalists. What day you are born and what sex you belong to are identifications that you are given already on the day you are born. Self-identification gives you the right and the opportunity to choose the sex you feel like yourself. That is why I am pleased that the Nordic Council adopted our proposal by a large majority. Another issue is that today we lack information about those who cross a Nordic border to work. This makes it difficult to grasp the importance of cross-border cooperation. The government should therefore work towards bilateral agreements between the Nordic countries on border statistics, so that those who work in another Nordic country can also be seen in that country's statistics. Then, too, the consequences of border controls, for example, would be more visible in the statistics and, hopefully, the policy would avoid such serious mistakes again.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-755	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! I am here to present the Nordic government cooperation during 2017 with a special focus on the activities of the Nordic Council of Ministers. First of all, I would like to raise my eyes and say something about our broader involvement in the neighbourhood and how, through regional cooperation, we are working to create security and security. Let me begin by mentioning two starting points for our action. To begin with, the goal of our policy is to create security for Sweden and the Swedish people. I presented this earlier this year in the presentation of our foreign policy declaration. Security has the quality of reproducing itself. We will be more secure if the countries and peoples around us feel safe. It is the opposite of a transactional approach to foreign policy, such as seeing relations between countries as a zero-sum game. The second realization is that the major challenges we face do not take national boundaries into account. They are common and must meet together, be they climate, epidemics, terrorism or the nuclear threat. That is what is called common security. So our goal is security. And the best way to create security is to act together, to build trust through dialogue and cooperation. This reasoning describes the conditions for our policy in the Nordic region and in the immediate region. It is about dialogue, cooperation and trust. Madam President, I would like This year Sweden is chair of the Nordic Council of Ministers, the Council of Baltic Sea States and the Barents Council. We also coordinate the Nordic and Nordic-Baltic cooperation on foreign and security policy, N5 and NB8. In addition, we are active members of the Arctic Council and the EU's northern dimension. I wanted to tell you a little more about the Nordic Council of Ministers, N5 and NB8. But first of all, I would like to say that Sweden, as the country holding the Presidency, is also striving to find interfaces between all the different formats that I have mentioned. Common to our commitment to them is that we provide a great deal of space for sustainable development, social issues, gender equality, youth exchanges and people-to-people contacts. It is also important to make it easier for people to travel, work and move across national borders. Russia often participates constructively in several of these organisations. We have and should take a principled stance on sanctions and on Russia's aggression against Ukraine, including the illegal annexation of Crimea. At the same time, we need to cooperate in areas where we have common interests. We also believe that it is important to maintain the popular and cultural links between the Nordic countries and Russia. A concrete example of our ambition to create interfaces between our different collaboration formats is the conference that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs is organising together with SIPRI in early June. There we will discuss issues of climate, nuclear safety, terrorism, safe cities and gender-based violence and how they affect our security. Let me now look more specifically at the work of the Nordic Council of Ministers, which is the hub of Nordic government cooperation. It is a collaboration governed by a shared vision of a borderless, innovative, visible and outward-looking Nordic region. As Chairman of the Nordic Council of Ministers, Sweden leads the work of all twelve Councils of Ministers. Digitisation, as Phia and others have mentioned, and closer Nordic-Baltic cooperation are pervasive themes. In 2017, the Border Barriers Council has cleared eight obstacles to mobility across the Nordic borders. For example, several border barriers related to unemployment insurance have been solved by new legislation. A new action plan for increased Nordic integration and transnational mobility is now being developed and will be implemented starting in 2019. On the innovation side, an ad hoc Council of Ministers on digitisation issues has been set up in 2017 together with the Baltic countries. We have increased cooperation on 5G, eID and cross-border digital management. Last year, a major Nordic cultural initiative was carried out at Europe's largest cultural centre, the Southbank Centre in London. There are plans for new such international Nordic initiatives in 2019 and 2020. In May 2017, the Nordic prime ministers launched an initiative to spread Nordic solutions to global challenges and contribute to the implementation of Agenda 2030. These include climate, innovation, gender equality and welfare. In the spring, we have also launched four specific Presidency projects in areas where we see the added value of increased cooperation. In recent months, for example, the digitisation ministers, together with their Baltic counterparts, have adopted a joint declaration on artificial intelligence, environment and climate ministers have strengthened cooperation with industry on climate change and gender equality and labour market ministers have pushed for enhanced cooperation on the future labour market and against discrimination in the workplace. At the next ministerial meeting in Lund in June, we will have a discussion about the Nordic Council of Ministers' international activities and focus on border barriers and Öresund integration. So a great deal has already happened during the Swedish Presidency. Let me also say something about what is happening in foreign and security policy cooperation in the Nordic countries and the Nordic countries – the Baltics. This is a priority cooperation, not least in view of the situation in our neighbourhood and in the EU's eastern neighbourhood. We have a lot in common with these countries in terms of values, interests and challenges. At the same time, there is some diversity in terms of EU, EMU, OECD and NATO membership. During the year, it is particularly important for us to work towards an inclusive Nordic region in relation to the Baltic countries and to use these formats to anchor and pursue UN issues of common interest – it can be about climate and security and the agenda for women, peace and security. In June we will have a meeting between the NB8 and the four Visegrad countries. There are also plans for a Prime Minister meeting between the Nordic countries – the Baltics and the UK this autumn. Madam President, I would like For Sweden, cooperation in the Nordic region and the surrounding area is a central national interest. It is of great importance to our safety. Under Swedish leadership in the regional collaborations, we have worked to build trust, solidarity and stability in our neighbourhood. Sweden will continue to work towards strong regional cooperation at all levels and in all formats with the overall goal of creating security and security for our country and our people.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-777	Madam President, I would like Let me start with a few words of praise. I think it is honourable that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is in the Chamber and participates in the Nordic debate as Nordic Minister for Cooperation. It is welcome to see the Minister here. I think that should be noted. Over the years, not all the responsible ministers have been happy to settle down to the Members of this House. Therefore, it is especially nice to see Margot Wallström coming here from the heights of Olympus. Something else worth noting is that Margot Wallström repeatedly referred to the Nordic-Baltic. It is crucial that we not only talk about the N5 but also about the NB8 format. I believe that our common future lies largely in the Nordic-Baltic dimension. In connection with the Helsinki session, a study was produced on what the Nordics think. According to the survey, approximately 90 percent of Nordics think Nordic cooperation is very important or important. Two thirds of them want more cooperation. The fun for us, from a Swedish perspective, is that the Swedes are the ones who have increased most in a positive direction. Compared with 2008 and 2017, you can see that there has been a significant change in the issues that the Nordics think should be prioritised. In 2008, the fight against cross-border crime was at the very top of the issue. In 2017, it was defence and security issues. This is notable to me. I would therefore like to hear the Minister reflect a little on this. Mrs Wallström was very concerned about security and common security, which are of course important issues, but she talked a lot about what we call the soft means, that is, dialogue and such things. However, she did not talk much about the tough, which is, of course, a complement, that is, the cooperation in defence policy. I would like to hear Mrs Wallström say something about this.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-782	Madam President, I would like These are the issues at the top of the agenda. Virtually all of our meetings are about security policy and the difficult security policy situation around the Baltic Sea. That's no wonder at all. It then manifests in the deepened cooperation that Sweden has entered into with the other Nordic countries and with countries such as Germany, the United Kingdom, the United States and everything you want. These cooperations also concern defence and security policy. This is therefore very much a central issue. I almost think it is sometimes appropriate for us to show that we are actually cooperating in other areas too, because sometimes this is the only item on the agenda for our cooperation. I believe we have very good cooperation. On Saturday, representatives of the three Baltic countries will be here to celebrate with us at Skansen. Then this will once again be one of the important points of discussion on the agenda. I think that this manifests in different ways. We also have what is called Nordefco, which is an enhanced cooperation in defence and security policy. I think we have proven that we are giving this full priority. But it must not be forgotten that the second is what builds security and security in the long term. It is good that we are discussing defence policy and so on. But it is safe societies that trust their institutions and feel that democracy is strengthened that will be secure in the long term.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-787	Madam President, I would like I can confirm that it is not only in the Council of Ministers, on the government side, that defence and security issues are at the top of the political agenda. I would like to say that this is also the case among parliamentarians. That is quite logical, of course, because we are partly mirror images of each other. This also shows the new normal situation that has established itself in the Baltic Sea region. I would therefore really like to stress how important it is for us to allow Nordic cooperation to grow into those with whom we have a political, value-based and historical community. The three Baltic republics Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania – they celebrate 100 years this year – are natural. I also think that the Minister here touched on some others that are self-evident in a northern dimension: Poland, Germany, the United Kingdom and perhaps the Netherlands. There is absolutely no difference or dissonance between us. Neither should it, because it is good that there is broad political backing around the main features. I share the Minister's view that the second dimension should not be forgotten, and it is therefore important to see both dimensions. In his speech, the Minister was very much involved in dialogue. Then it is important that the second dimension, the military dimension, is not forgotten at the same time. I would just like to remind you of what Mr Martti said in the position in Helsinki, because I thought he had an extremely wise speech, namely that it is important that we allow ourselves to live through the Nordic values every day, but also that we should not forget where we belong. He thought it was natural that his country should be a member of all Western democratic organisations. It may not come as a surprise to the Social Democrats, Mr Andersson and Mrs Wallström, that I share that view. What does the Minister think about Martti Martti's wise words about belonging to all Western democratic organisations?
i-5ed94879815bfa43-793	Mr President, I would like to Actually, I had Martti Martti visiting me at the State Department the other day. We had a very interesting conversation, also about the efforts he has made to form CMI, which is an important organisation that works not least with mediation efforts and important projects around the world. I know that he has great respect for the fact that each country decides on its own view of, for example, military alliance freedom. Now it is the line that we have in Sweden and that this government stands for and defends in the future as well. We think that this is what actually gives us security, flexibility and the opportunity to decide for ourselves what cooperation we should enter into. We think it would be very unwise to change that now, at this point. Now we shall stick to what are the three pillars of our defence and security policy. It is about cooperation, continuing military alliance freedom and expanding our own defence. That is also our line in the future. Thank you, Hans Wallmark, for your cooperation! It is indeed the case that we have a broad consensus, which is a huge asset in Nordic cooperation. It is very nice that we have this conversation stone and that we have this great consensus. That makes us a good model for the rest of the world, actually.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-796	Mr President, I would like to I would, of course, like to start by thanking the Minister for Nordic Cooperation, Margot Wallström, for participating in this debate. Responsibility for the Nordic work is handled alongside the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The fact that events that take place far away from the Nordic countries require the Minister's attention and action is a given consequence. Nevertheless, Margot Wallström has been Minister for the Nordic Countries for two years now. Last week she made a first visit to Øresunddirectly in Malmö to understand a border commuter's everyday life. On the leading side of the evening post, reference is made to the visit and concludes with the words: The Nordic minister responsible for the Öresund region has spoken, although it sounded more like a yawning. The questions from the Minister for the Nordic Countries were interpreted as a certain lack of knowledge and a certain lack of commitment to the Öresund region. This also stems from some of the events that I referred to in my speech – the consequences of identity checks and the disappointment at the vote on an EU authority in the region. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for the Nordic Countries how the government really sees the Öresund region. What is the Minister, after two years at the helm, most proud to have achieved for the people who live and work in a border region like the Öresund region?
i-5ed94879815bfa43-800	Mr President, I would like to Maybe I'm not surprised how that newspaper wrote about my visit-- so much we can say. On the other hand, everyone is happy if we actually gain control. It is about us gaining control of the huge flows of refugees that we had in 2015 and then trying to arrange this in as practical and smooth a way as it is possible at all. Nobody wants this. We would, of course, wish that we could have complete freedom of movement, but that is not the case. We have regulated immigration. We had a record inflow of people, and there was a risk of being completely out of control. That's why we needed this. As long as we need it for both our own security and our own control, we will have it, but it is clear that we hope that as soon as it is practically possible we will be able to return to a system where we do not need it.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-802	Mr President, I would like to What I was referring to in this case, when it comes to border controls, was mainly how they were introduced and how the dialogue took place with the Danish party, who feels that it was not with foresight or good communication that they tried to resolve this. The Foreign Affairs Committee recently visited Copenhagen. I think that some of the colleagues in the committee who do not live in the region or who may not be included in the Danish press were surprised that it was expressed so clearly, although Danes are clear, that the relationship with Sweden has had a thorn, that it has been damaged in recent years. Does the Minister agree that there is potential for improvement in the relationship between Denmark and Sweden? If so, how can cooperation be improved?
i-5ed94879815bfa43-805	Mr President, I would like to I think there is always an improvement potential. Something else would be terrible to say. Of course we can improve cooperation. We have excellent cooperation, me and my colleague. We meet regularly in all these different formats. There's nothing to worry about. We can talk to each other openly. Then everyone knows that it was a situation that was very tense and very special. It is clear that afterwards you always see what could be done better. We will learn from this, and we will have to make sure that everything works more smoothly in the future. But I don't feel that this has done any lasting damage to our relationship, but that's what we can work with. We do this precisely through dialogue and cooperation and by continuing to meet and see if we can deal with the problems together. In fact, I don't think your party would change this either. You also realise that we need control and that we need to ensure that we can create security and a predictable situation in our country.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-808	Mr President, I would like to Nuclear weapons are the most dangerous weapons of mass destruction that mankind has created. The international community has so far not been able to stop the proliferation of nuclear weapons, nor has it been able to dismantle nuclear weapons. Instead, billions of dollars are invested in modernising and developing nuclear weapons. We see the escalating tone of the world around us. At the same time, nuclear weapons are not banned either. Minister for Foreign Affairs Wallström highlighted security in the speech. One way to achieve security is to bring about the disarmament of nuclear weapons. At the recent session of the Nordic Council in Akureyri, a proposal from the Nordic Green Left on global nuclear disarmament was adopted. The recommendation sent to the Nordic Council of Ministers and to governments was about continuing to coordinate efforts towards global nuclear disarmament. I wonder, of course, what the Secretary of State has done to get us there. At the heart of such an issue is the issue of signing the UN Convention which has been developed, which is called a humanitarian Pledging. How does Sweden think and reason that you should sign that agreement as soon as possible, so to speak?
i-5ed94879815bfa43-812	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the incredibly important, urgent and, let's say, topical issue! We're working on several different tracks. First of all, we must work for the Non-Proliferation Treaty and the Review Conference, which will take place in 2020. We work there not least with the help of SIPRI and by organising various meetings and conferences to ensure that we are fully involved in that work and the preparation work. We were also very active in the context of the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva, which has not shown any progress in 20 years. In fact, for the first time something could be agreed on there. Not least because we prepared it carefully during our Presidency, we made sure that we can now at least set up working groups and take a tiny step forward. We're working on the issue of risk reduction. We believe that very practical efforts, for example, to raise the threshold for use and to have, so to speak, warning signals that are allowed to sound a little longer than they are today before using nuclear weapons are also an important example of this. We have appointed an investigator who is looking at the ban convention. He's got a year. We are doing this, like other countries that also need to look at it. What would it mean if we signed and ratified such a convention? What does this mean for our own legislation, for our arms exports and for our cooperation? You look over all these areas so that we can eventually make an informed decision. That is what is going on, but in the meantime there is so much more to do. Not least, perhaps our efforts in relation to North Korea in the long term can help to reduce tensions and hopefully be a push in the right direction towards nuclear disarmament in relation to their arsenal.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-818	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for that answer. I think there are good reasons why Sweden is working very actively on these issues. What worries me a little is the investigation that the Secretary of State says will take a year. The problem with the fact that the investigation takes just one year is that we do not know whether Mrs Wallström will be Minister for Foreign Affairs after the elections. We may well end up in a situation where perhaps Hans Wallmark is a foreign minister or someone else who is less keen to sign this type of agreement. This concerns me about the endeavours that I think I see with Mrs Wallström but perhaps not with the whole Socialist and environmental party government. What I am thinking about is how the Minister for Foreign Affairs views cooperation with the Nordic colleagues. What is possible to achieve with the foreign minister's Nordic colleagues in order to achieve nuclear disarmament? How does she view our own neighbourhood – the Nordic region of course, where we do not have nuclear weapons today, but also the Arctic, which we know is an area that is becoming more and more highly interesting and where, in addition to the Nordic countries, there are nuclear nations and countries that do not always have a great climate for cooperation among themselves? How are we to ensure that the Arctic is also a safe area in the future?
i-5ed94879815bfa43-822	Mr President, I would like to That was probably three or four questions in one. I believe that Sweden has a proud tradition that goes back decades when it comes to engaging in nuclear disarmament. Of course we should keep doing that. We will be active on all the different tracks and opportunities where we can be. We also have outstanding expertise in this area, which can also help us in various ways. The Arctic is a very important area. Maybe we can get back to that. But we really need to keep an eye on what is happening throughout the Arctic area, and I think we can have Nordic cooperation on this issue from that point of view. However, NATO membership means that NATO sits heavily on its members. They can't go that far, or you'll end up under a nuclear umbrella. That is the case, and that is why we do not hear so much from them in these matters, but they do so more responsibly. However, I believe that we in the Nordic countries will be able to have a good and lively debate, not least on the Non-Proliferation Treaty, so we must also try to find ways of dialogue between nuclear weapons holders and other countries in order to see how we can move forward. The fact that there is such a proposal for a convention of bans is, of course, an expression of the great frustration that the world is feeling about the lack of progress and the fact that a country like the United States is actually modernising its nuclear weapons. It is becoming more dangerous and dangerous and more and more countries that want nuclear weapons. The world protests and says that we have not seen any progress lately in the negotiations, and so there are now reactions of this kind. But it must also be a practical tool for all countries to sign up, and that is also why we need to look carefully at what that would mean. We shall continue to be active, and it is best to continue with a government of this kind to know that the issue of nuclear disarmament is at the centre.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-829	Mr President, I would like to I was going to have a different track, but I cannot help but note that it is again the United States that is being pointed out in the case of nuclear weapons. But Russia is closer to both us in the NB8 and the Nordic countries, and the modernisation and development that we have seen on nuclear issues in Russia is something that we have every reason to worry about. I would also like to comment on the fact that in this debate, too, I did not intend to raise NATO issues in the way we often discuss them. Although we think that Sweden should become a member, this is not the focus of this discussion. It is also not Nord Stream 2, that we should be able to cooperate with Denmark and NB8. I would also like to commend what I heard about the Nordic and Baltic countries planning to meet together with the UK this autumn. It's an important signal. We from the Foreign Affairs Committee who were in London at the beginning of the week also received that kind of signal: Don't forget us when you speak the North! I therefore think that it is important to include a signal. Mr President, I would like to Now that we have the pleasure of having the Minister present, I would like to ask her why we did not receive an account of the work of the Arctic Council in this letter from the Government. After all, we are not the chairman there, but we still have an active job.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-833	Mr President, I would like to From what I remember, there's a short piece. I heard the debate that you had earlier, and one might wonder why we have not done more of the annual reports. I think it has really been a matter of priority and a question of resources in terms of how much you should formalize it, how much reports you should write and so on. I think there may be a reason, now that we have also chaired a number of these different formats, to actually go back in and look at how we are going to have it with this reporting, how we are going to ensure that there are recurring debates and that we have clear priority discussions. With regard to the Arctic Council and the strategy, I must say that we nevertheless felt that the most important elements were there. We have supplemented the environmental aspect, because it is most urgent that there is an updated environmental policy. I do not think you need to be dissatisfied with this, but it can actually be said that it only shows that it successfully captured the various areas that need to be worked on in the Arctic Council. That's why we kind of didn't think we needed to do a whole new job and take a new hold. Sometimes we have little time to carry out our duties, to be chairman and to try to find a practical way forward. We have felt that it has worked so far. However, with security policy and everything, there is certainly reason to make a new Arctic strategy, and that should be carefully planned. This also applies to re-reporting and debates in the Riksdag.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-837	Mr President, I would like to As far as the Arctic strategy is concerned, I have not taken that debate with the Social Democrats. Although there were some comments in previous debates, it was above all a discussion I had with Valter Mutt of the Green Party who touched on that very point. From the committee we have been clear. During the time we were in government, the Left Party and the Social Democrats in particular felt that it would be a separate letter every year. We landed with that in due course but said when you were then sitting in the government that you do not need to write a separate letter, because we understand the issue of resources. But make it a clear part of the letter dealing with, among other things, our Nordic cooperation so that it is included as an important issue, because there is also an Arctic Council, and there too it is important to be able to follow up on this. Against this background, we have repeatedly highlighted, even in the last two years, this absence in the Government's letter. It is regrettable that the government has not read that part and gives us the opportunity to have an account, Mr President.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-840	Mr President, I would like to I can only tell Kerstin Lundgren that we must do better. I'll take this to heart. I think it is important to ensure that Parliament does not have to complain that you do not get the report and a chance to discuss it. We'll just have to do it better in the future.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-841	Mr President, I would like to Kerstin Lundgren has made much of what is important for the Center Party when it comes to Nordic cooperation, and I am of course fully behind what she has said. However, on the basis of my work in the Nordic Council, I would like to emphasise a few things that are important today and will be in the future. Cooperation within the Nordic countries has long been important, is important and, I believe, will become increasingly important. Trust between the Nordic countries is strong, and trust in the Nordic Council and cooperation between our countries has a very strong position with our citizens in all Nordic countries. This shows studies that the Nordic Council has made, which is very gratifying. It strengthens the legitimacy of our cooperation. This together with the long-term and close Nordic relations means that the Nordic region can play an increasingly important role in European and global cooperation in the future – based on our common Nordic ties. Mr President, I would like to Climate is a matter of destiny for our entire planet. The Nordic countries have a strong consensus on taking responsibility for reducing emissions and implementing the green transition. We also have unique opportunities to complement each other and together produce as much renewable and sustainable energy as possible. We will take advantage of these opportunities, and we work together with them in the different countries and jointly within the framework of the Nordic Council. Nordic energy cooperation needs to be developed, and it is gratifying to see the initiatives that have been taken for several years in the Nordic Council. The research will be supported, and we will seize our opportunity to be a global example and show that climate responsibility, economic growth and new jobs can go hand in hand. The Nordic countries can only become even better at developing and being role models for a green transition. A green transition needs innovations, the development of renewable energy based on, for example, bio raw materials, major investments in energy efficiency and a new fossil-free infrastructure. With its combined resources and its rich expertise, Nordic cooperation for research and development can increase the pace of this transition. The Center Party works closely in the Nordic Council with the middle group. During the year, we have brought the middle group with us to further push forward on issues such as energy, climate and research, but we have also continued to work to raise security policy issues. It is quite clear that even more needs to be done in the field of defence between the Nordic countries. Peace and security we are building together with democratic countries in our vicinity. For Sweden, this means that the ties with our Nordic neighbours need to be even stronger, and I think it is mutual. But the Nordic countries need to take further steps to increase their defence and security cooperation. As we all know, the Center Party sees it as a natural step that Sweden, preferably together with Finland, should apply for membership of NATO as soon as possible. The other Nordic countries are largely members, and it would be a great step forward if the Nordic countries were in the same situation on this issue. Hans Wallmark quoted Martti Martti on the subject. The importance of this cannot be exaggerated. The EU is an important platform. The more Nordic countries in the EU, the stronger we can assert what we stand for and help each other. The same applies to defence cooperation. In a serious and complex time with major challenges globally, in Europe and in the Nordic region, Nordic cooperation is a valuable asset for providing common solutions. By virtue of, among other things, our economic strength, which is large and growing, the Nordic countries have an important role to play. Mr President, I would like to The freedom of passports in the Nordic countries was already introduced in 1952 and the common labour market was introduced in 1954. The common desire in the Nordic countries to minimise border barriers in our part of the world is an important reason for the Nordic success story. Freedom of movement in the Nordic countries must continue to be protected. By allowing people living in the Nordic countries to work freely throughout the Nordic region, opportunities are created for them to find their dream jobs, while at the same time helping us to keep unemployment down. For Nordic companies, free movement increases the opportunity to find the skills they need. For the Nordic countries, free movement lays the foundation for a strong economy and a more secure welfare. But there are threats to transparency in the Nordic countries. New regulations, including the introduction of EU rules in different ways by the Nordic countries, are current examples. Therefore, work on border barriers needs to continue – and increase. Whether you are a student, employee or entrepreneur, we need to remove unnecessary hassle and make it easier for all of us to travel and work in the Nordic countries. We all get that. Education and culture are other important areas for the Nordic Council. Together we need to work to strengthen the quality of education throughout the Nordic region. The Nordic languages are an important basis for Nordic cooperation to be strong. The fact that schoolchildren are given the opportunity to understand and make themselves understood also across the Nordic language borders is important, and there are current issues that we discuss in the Nordic cooperation, such as the cross-border availability of Nordic radio and television channels. By safeguarding and engaging in Nordic literature, film, music and other art forms, the Nordic Council can increase the accessibility of cultural experiences for everyone living in the Nordic region. I can also join the debate between Phia Andersson and Hans Wallmark and say that the Nordic consultation is a good example of an area where we work in the same direction to a large extent and can work together between parties in Sweden and between countries in the Nordic region. We don't agree on everything, but we agree on a lot. And it is a strength that we can work together on the Nordic issues.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-855	Mr President, I would like to I don't really have a written script, as many of you have. Instead, I thought that I would stop here and listen to what issues are being debated and discussed. As always, there is an incredibly fragrant and cozy atmosphere in the Nordic debates. I look at the smiles among colleagues that this is the case. I also believe that Eva Tarselius Hallgren, Chairman of the Nordic Council of Ministers' Border Barriers Council, is also grateful that we are raising the issues of border barriers today. I will touch them a little quickly. Let me make a small comment. It is great that we discuss defence and security policy in the Nordic countries. I'm happy for all the tapes. However I turn around and twist it, it is rarely those who speak defence and security policy who are interested in telling our Nordic neighbours that they should join the EU, such as Norway and Iceland, but we often hear the opposite, that is, that Sweden should join NATO. Having said that, I say that every debate has its own place and uniqueness, and in this case you can reflect on it, gentlemen. I will say nothing more - and I do not wish any more comments on the matter! On the issue of border barriers, an incredibly active work is underway in the Nordic Council. Work has really developed in a positive direction in recent years. The Minister for Foreign Affairs – the Minister for the Nordic Countries – touched on the fact that eight border barriers were solved last year, but there is a whole portal with various proposals for border barriers that can be solved. Now the work has been intensified by trying to pick up the border barriers that are there as soon as possible. That's a good thing. This stems from what Staffan Danielsson mentioned about passport freedom in the Nordic countries and labour market mobility. These issues are closely linked to the entire pillar and foundation on which the Nordic Council stands and has been doing so for over 60 years. What I would like, as the representative of the Nordic Council in the Border Barriers Council, is for governments to draw up a manual in a greater consensus – it does not need to be so advanced – on how a practical craft can work in order to combat border barriers in the legislative processes in each Nordic country. It can be thought of. But it's not that complicated, I think. It is about creating a list of activities that should be done once one is included in new national legislation – a little like we do in the Swedish Parliament as well when it comes to subsidiarity tests within the EU. I sincerely hope that we can have even greater convergence across national borders on these issues so that governments see the opportunities and not just a whole host of new tasks. I would also like to comment briefly on what has been said about the Arctic. It is clear that there are challenges with regard to the Arctic, we are all aware, not least in terms of melting, that the climate is changing and that the Northeast Passage is now becoming more accessible. We also see increased activity in the area of Arctic security. There are many who want to claim the Arctic, so we must be more active here ourselves. The Foreign Minister also clearly said that we should take further steps on this issue and continue the dialogue on the Arctic. It is not insignificant because it will affect us too, not least in terms of transport and similar activities and also in terms of climate impact. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say something about the further development of the Nordic Council and the consensus we have with our Baltic neighbours. I think that consensus is urgent. It has been stated on several occasions. But I would also like to make this clear: we should strengthen the cooperation we have, but the Nordic Council is the Nordic Council, and I think that should last. We should treasure and enjoy our community of values. We have a strong community of values with our Baltic friends too, but each organisation has its own model to relate to. We can develop cooperation, but I still think that the Nordic Council should be the Nordic Council and nothing else. Then we can work together on different sides to make it even better.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-863	Mr President, I would like to I'm on leave of absence. We always want to have the last word, so I thought I'd take advantage of the opportunity to take the last line. The first thing I want to say is that border barriers work, which Mr Niemi mentions and which I know he has been active and driving in, is a central part of the Nordic work. That is why it deserves attention as he did in his speech. I am among those who believe that the issues of border barriers are something of a legitimacy test on how Nordic cooperation works. It becomes so obvious to individual northerners whether it works or not, and it is when it does not work that one wonders why we have Nordic cooperation. That is why every day we should be inspired by the question of how we can plan down all these obstacles. That is why it is important to raise them, and Mr Niemi should be commended for doing so. The second is that in addition to everything we have talked about – we have left a delegation report – the Nordic Council delegation organises various seminars and meetings. Pyry Niemi, together with Aron Emilsson, was responsible for a very good seminar on language understanding in the Nordic region that showed that we not only think in general but try to base it on knowledge. There too, I would like to pay tribute. Finally, yes, I tend to push, even towards our Nordic friends, in terms of the fact that the EU is an amazingly good thing. Now I represent a party whose sister party in Norway has exactly the same view, and as by chance we also have the same view of NATO. The last time I had such a discussion at a Nordic Council meeting, I asked the then Norwegian Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg. Then he said he was a dedicated European friend. But he had seen his country reject the EU twice, so he thought that the issue was not active this third time. But it is important that we push on there – and as happens, Mr President, Jens Stoltenberg is now the Secretary-General of another valuable organisation that it would also be good if our Norwegian friends pointed out the importance of for their Swedish colleagues.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-867	Mr President, I would like to I cannot review the attitude of my Norwegian friends and social democrats to this, but I know that they are also the promoters of the European Union. There is, I believe, a fairly strong majority in favour of this in the Norwegian Parliament. On the other hand, the will of the people has shown twice that this is not the case in the rest of Norway. Of course, I, too, regret that. I think it would be great if Norway were an EU country in harmony with us. It would be nice if Iceland were also an EU country. There were once, as Hans Wallmark remembers, strong forces also in Iceland to join the EU. But also it disappeared. Yes, I definitely think we should continue to assist and inform our friends in Norway about how good it is to be in the European Union. As an event, we recently saw that people in Sweden are even better off being in the EU now, in recent years. This development is only positive, and it may infect our Norwegian friends so that they can see the opportunities in a larger community. I also believe that it could further facilitate Nordic cooperation if Norway joined the EU, for several reasons. In particular, it would create more conditions for Norway to have an even better and integrated labour market. I therefore welcome this, and I am pleased that we have a common understanding on this issue.
i-5ed94879815bfa43-870	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, I'm totally in agreement with Pyry Niemi. I believe that Nordic cooperation would be improved and deepened with countries outside the EU should they become members. Many in Sweden are internationalists. I also saw that the survey that came a few days ago shows that support for the EU has increased in Sweden. I'm glad. We are now on the top ten list of the most positive EU countries. I think that is fundamentally good, precisely because we do not have a naive attitude. I am also looking at the Foreign Minister here. I think that we, as a country, both from the government and from the opposition, have a fairly clear line in which we are making demands on the European Union while recognising the value of the European Union. As an internationalist, I think we should work together in these organisations: in the Nordic Council, in the EU, in the UN, in the OSSE, in the Council of Europe and, Mr President, in NATO!
i-5ed94879815bfa43-873	Mr President, I would like to If there's one thing I admire Hans Wallmark for, it's that he's a skilled rhetoricist and a talker in his prime years. I'm grateful for that. I mean, we've had a few things over the years, and this isn't supposed to be the last one. Yes, but Sweden is already cooperating and cooperating with NATO today. Hans Wallmark knows that well. As I also said, the Nordic Council has cooperation on many different sides, and one does not exclude the other. Cooperation does not necessarily mean getting married or uniting, but it can develop collaborations on different sides. Just as it is for Norway to join the EU, it is a great process for Sweden to think in those lines about NATO. We have protected the freedom of alliance, and it has served us well – we think Social Democrats. His Wallmark who moderates think a little different. It is quite good that we have a discussion on the subject of security policy because it is so topical in the Baltic Sea and all that. But in the end, Mr Wallmark, you are probably not going to get me out of the speaker's chair today or tomorrow to say that we should join NATO, because I do not think so. Sweden is very close to Finland when it comes to security policy and defence cooperation, and I think we should continue to do so. I don't feel much desire for us to do other things at the same time. We've landed well as it looks at the moment. We shall continue that cooperation. We continue with NB8, with Nordefco and so on. As things stand today, Sweden is integrated in the way that I think the Swedish people deserve. I also think that the security aspect is well included in the strategy supported by the government and also by the majority in Parliament. I thank Mr Wallmark for a good debate.
