i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-11	Madam President, I would like Initially, I want to be clear: the Moderates want a healthy and decent construction industry. We all agree on this, just as we know there are problems in the construction industry. However, this proposal runs the risk of making it more difficult for small and small special enterprises, and it risks benefiting rogue operators. In my speech, I should like to highlight a few things I think are particularly serious, but otherwise I refer to the Alliance parties' motion. This is partly about Sweden implementing a directive, and partly about the industry having problems with rogue actors. It is, above all, the industry that has to deal with unsound competition, and politics has to find solutions to the problems that politics can actually control. The proposal we are discussing today is about unpaid salary claims. I have spoken to many companies and organisations about the proposal we have before us today. I have read several studies that have been carried out, and I have taken note of a great deal of the opinions of the referral bodies. The first thing is that unsound competition in the industry is not about unpaid wage claims. It is even stated in the government's own proposal that the real extent of the problem is unknown. It also states that it can be assumed, however, that in some cases workers who do work in a construction chain do not receive the salary to which they are entitled. We don't get any numbers, we just get assumptions. Some of the collective agreements, such as the construction agreement, already provide for a fund solution for a few years. In Sweden's Byggindustrier's referral, we can see that not a single case has been raised there, despite the fact that this has now existed for a while. In my opinion, this should show that this is not the big problem of the industry. I also believe, in principle, that it should be a little more than an assumption before proposing a completely new law. There is also currently protection in Swedish legislation. For example, we have special preferential rights in the event of bankruptcy and the Pay Guarantee Act, which gives all employees protection in the event that they do not receive their salary. There are also rules in the Swedish collective agreements. That is the first objection we have and which makes us think it is unjustified to introduce such a far-reaching measure without identifying a real problem. Secondly, the new rules risk having serious consequences for serious companies in the industry. I have met many smaller companies, sometimes called special companies or niche companies; it can be installers, electricians, floormakers and so on. They risk not getting assignments, for who now dares to trust a subcontractor because of the risk of paying not only their own employees' wages but also those of others? From the industry it is said that customers are likely to hire already known companies that are on the market and have already established a good relationship with the big players. How will new companies get in? Who will dare to hire such a company? However, a staffing company can be set up, because they are not covered by the law. As I said, it is sad that serious companies should be affected. Thirdly, this risks leading to even longer payment periods. Already today, sub-contractors are being squeezed when the main contractor holds money for long periods of time. With this proposal, there is an imminent risk that the principal or principal will suspend the payment for an even longer period until the wages are guaranteed to have been paid. I have stood in this House several times debating long pay-offs, and then Social Democrats have argued against small companies acting as banks against large companies. I fully agree with that – it is a major problem – but this argument clearly does not apply to this legislation. Fourthly, protect the Swedish model! I cannot refrain from drawing a parallel to a certain ongoing debate in Europe on fair working conditions. There, the government, the alliance parties and the parties have agreed that the autonomy of collective agreements should be monitored. I think that discussion has been completely absent during the preparation of this dossier. As I said at the outset, some in the industry have a solution in their collective agreements, but that is far from everyone. There is also concern about, for example, the construction agreement, where there is a fund solution, and what will happen and what will apply when it is renegotiated. I also assume that those who do not have such a solution today are concerned about what happens when we go in and legislate. In the second matter I referred to, we have argued for how important it is for the parties to have the flexibility to be able to negotiate freely. I think it gives a double signal that in one case we are safeguarding this flexibility, but in the other case we are referring to law. What's to go first-- is it a deal or a law? And what does the legal text on equal terms mean? Fifthly, an example of this law risking favouring rogue companies is what is in the text of the law on actual wages – not minimum wages, as the directive says – to be paid. Here, according to several people, I have talked to an opening for fake pay certificates and fork-and-bow companies to exploit a situation. A contractor or a principal contractor will risk paying a salary higher than the one you pay your own employees. That couldn't have been the purpose, could it? The last thing I thought I'd mention is gold plating. It is an issue that we are discussing in this House from time to time, and here again we have a proposal that goes much further than what the directive says. Among other things, responsibility must fall strictly, i.e. it does not matter what control measures the contractor has taken to remain responsible. Of course, I think it is reasonable that you should check your subcontractors, but I assume that serious actors do. This also applies not only to unpaid salaries but also to many other parts of the mission. But how far is the control going to last? What does it cost in time and money with ongoing checks? How much administration is required? That large companies can do this is, I think, quite safe – but smaller companies? Furthermore, the Government's proposal went further than the Directive in that it applies in several stages. The reasonable thing would have been to stay with the proposal from the first investigation, namely responsibility in one step. It also has the alliance parties as one of their claims. In conclusion, Madam President, this bill is a misguided attempt to overcome what is actually the problem. Of course, the employee should be paid and paid at the right time, but as I and many with me have pointed out, this is not the big problem in the industry today. There's a lot to improve. Many of our authorities need to increase their controls. This applies, among other things, to the Swedish Tax Agency but also to many other authorities. We have introduced human resources, as well as reverse VAT. The industry itself has improved ID06, and so on. However, I am convinced that this proposal does not lead to a fairer or healthier construction industry, Madam President. Instead, it risks knocking out small niche companies while the big ones survive. My question to the government parties and the Swedish Democrats will be: Is it the big companies you protect? In so doing, Madam President, I would like to propose rejecting the proposal in the report, and for time to come, I would only ask for the approval of Amendments Nos 1 and 2.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-26	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by agreeing with what Mrs Roswall from the Moderates has raised. We are today debating entrepreneurial responsibility for wage claims in the construction sector, and the proposal under discussion is a typical example of an over-implementing of an EU directive – but also of the government's symbolic policy, which is often in danger of affecting small companies and the Swedish model. On the part of the Center Party, we share the view that there is a problem of unfair competition in the construction sector, and for the Center Party it goes without saying that serious companies should not be able to be competed out by companies that violate laws and regulations. We need order and order, and we want order and order in the construction sector. For this reason, the Alliance introduced, among other things, a ROT deduction and a reverse charge on VAT, as well as new rules on human resources. What the Red-Green Government has done in this area is to reduce the ROT deduction, and changes have just recently been introduced in the case of workers who affect small, family-owned businesses in particular. The proposal we are discussing today on wage claims in the construction sector will bring with it several negative and tangible consequences. This will be particularly difficult for smaller companies and for new companies, as clients will opt out of companies that they do not know about in order to avoid risks. It will also be more difficult for specialised companies. The Government's proposal also means that payments to subcontractors are delayed and risk creating liquidity problems so that small companies can act as banks at the entrepreneurial level. Madam President, I would like When new measures are taken, it is important that they respond to a real need, especially if they are also liable to have consequences for businesses and parts of the labour market. As a reason for introducing the far-reaching entrepreneurial responsibility proposed by the government, it stresses the need to create better opportunities for the individual worker to be able to receive his or her salary. But just as Mrs Roswall pointed out in her speech, the government can only make that assumption in the bill and not point to any actual examples. Several consultation bodies also point out that the question is whether this proposal meets a real problem or whether it is merely a symbolic act. There are already several tools in the toolbox for those who are employed and who do not receive their salary. There is the possibility of recovery and of obtaining a judgment for payment obligations. An employee also has the opportunity to apply for the employer to go bankrupt so that rogue companies that cannot pay their employees wages disappear from the labour market. The government's wage guarantee will also come in so that the employee is paid. The parties also have a common system, which so far has not had to be used, for people who do not receive their salary. So there are several tools in the toolbox for such cases. What we can also question in this case is over-implementing the legislation. The government is moving forward with a proposal on entrepreneurship responsibilities in several stages, although the implementing directive on which this is based only points to the need to be in a line for the minimum wage of posted workers. The government therefore goes on to say that it should cover several stages, all workers in the construction sector and the entire wage claim. In many other parts, too, the proposal goes disproportionately far. As an entrepreneur, it is not possible to take reasonable control measures, because it does not matter, but it is possible to take these measures, as the government proposal points out. There will be a major over-implementation of the directive. Madam President, I would like Another problematic aspect of the proposal is the risk of creating problems with existing collective agreements. As we heard earlier in Mrs Roswall's speech, problems are created, and in this committee we often discuss and defend the Swedish model and the possibility for the parties to agree. This law runs the risk of rendering certain existing collective agreements or standard agreements invalid while the government wants an extremely short period of implementation for this bill, which means that the parties do not get a real chance to actually negotiate and agree on how they want to resolve the issues and implement the elements contained in the legislation. It creates unnecessary problems and, above all, raises questions about whether the government seriously wants the parties to be contributing and driving this process to a healthier construction industry. Madam President, I would like When Parliament introduces laws and regulations, we must always ask ourselves whether the legislation that we decide solves a problem, creates new problems or is ineffective. Unfortunately, there is a great risk, as I see it, that this government proposal represents one of the latter alternatives. It risks creating problems for small businesses, it restricts the autonomy of the parties and it does not solve the real problem of unhealthy competition in the construction sector. Instead, it affects small businesses. In this connection, I would like to endorse the reservations 1 and 2 contained in the report.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-36	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that, of course, we are behind all the reservations expressed by the Liberals and the Liberals in the report, but for time to come, I am only calling for reservations 1 and 2. Madam President, I would like Liberals are Sweden's social liberals on arti. Our party is based on an idea of keeping two thoughts in mind at the same time – a social perspective to protect the vaguest in society, and a liberal perspective because we love to see independent individuals grow, develop and start businesses. The combination of these two perspectives, which form a well-balanced whole, is the foundation of social liberalism. In the balance between the social and the liberal, we have unfailing optimism and confidence in man and society, which we have created together to uphold the rights and freedoms of our citizens. We believe in man, and we believe that market economy is one of the main forms of individual self-realization. We believe in a market economy that is strengthened by certain means of control and a public framework if confidence between the individual and the market were to fail. Madam President, I would like The case itself deals with increased primary responsibility for subcontracting for the operation and entrepreneurship of subcontractors, also known as entrepreneurship responsibility. We agree in committee and in society at large, I believe, that there are particular problems with the construction sector and unhealthy competition where companies do not comply with the laws and regulations that we have decided in this House. However, the question is whether the government's proposal to overimplement the EU directive on which the proposal is based is justified. We in the Liberals and Alli believe that the negative consequences are too great and that the symbolic policy of the government is misplaced, partly because there are already existing tools for the recovery of claims and notification of bankruptcy and so on, and partly because we share the analysis by the consultation bodies that the proposal would create enormous difficulties for small and medium-sized enterprises. My colleagues have also explained this before, so I thought I would stay there in that argumentation. In conclusion, Madam President, as this is my last speech in Parliament's chair, I would like to take this opportunity to express my warm thanks to colleagues in Parliament. But perhaps I should like first of all to extend warm thanks to the voters at home in Norra Älvsborg and Västra Götaland n orra constituency for giving me the confidence to represent them here in the Swedish Parliament. As a personal member of parliament from a non-electable place, I should of course like to thank both the internal party sympathizers and those outside the organised liberal movement. Coming as a refugee and being able to make the class trip via academia and enterprise and until serving in Sweden's highest decision-making body is something for which I am very grateful. Being an elected member of the Swedish Parliament will always be the finest assignment I have ever had in my life. I would like to wish everyone a happy summer and a happy election campaign in advance!
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-44	Madam President, I would like The Alliance government during its time did a horse job to make the regulatory burden easier for the country's entrepreneurs. It was not an easy job, but serious work was really done. When legislative proposals for new rules were tabled, the principle was a rule in, a rule out. And each proposal would be reviewed from a regulatory perspective – all to make it easier to start and run companies in Sweden. Now the red-greens, together with the Swedish Democrats, are proposing another bill that will increase the regulatory burden and make it more difficult for small and not yet established companies in our country. Like so many other proposals, entrepreneurship can sound good at first sight. But pretty soon you realize it's a bad idea. First of all, it is questionable in principle whether a company should be responsible for the salary payments of another company. If, for any reason, a company does not pay its employees wages, it must be regulated in a different way from other companies being liable for payment. However, there must be some principles of ownership, including those of the red-green and nationalist parties in this Parliament. Secondly, the proposal will lead to greater uncertainty and increased risk-taking. It will lead to greater risks of hiring companies as subcontractors. And it will of course affect smaller and not yet established companies. This in itself weakens the business environment and competition in an industry that already has problems with price developments. Thirdly, the staffing industry will benefit as it is exempted from the law. I have nothing against temporary agencies, but the red-green side is happy to talk about the problems of the growing staffing sector and the insecurity it is alleged to create. And now we are imposing a charge on companies, but we are exempting temporary work agencies entirely. Indeed, the logic of this action is questionable. Fourth, you break open doors. We do not even know whether the problem of unpaid wages exists to any extent. Of course, we should have serious players in the construction sector. The Alliance government also took several steps to increase the seriosity. Among other things, ROT deductions and human resources were introduced in the construction sector. However, this proposal will not lead to increased seriosity. On the other hand, it risks repelling start-ups and smaller companies from the construction sector. That would be a very unfortunate development. Fifthly, this can already be regulated today, through collective agreements. The problem is that the law goes much further than what is regulated in many of the existing collective agreements. And since the law is only semidispositive, existing agreements in the labour market are in danger of being annulled. The Swedish model, which the government usually makes its parade number in the electoral movement, does not seem to be something to protect in this regard. The Alliance has a better idea. We think it is better for the parties to regulate this on their own. We therefore want to reject the bill as a whole. If that motion falls, for which there is a risk, we have a series of follow-up worship that I hope the Parliament can vote through in order to reduce the damage as much as possible. Madam President, I would like I therefore support reservations 1 and 2. Madam President, I would like Companies are an important part of our community building. Without the companies, Sweden would be poor and poor. Then we cannot vote for proposals that make things worse and more difficult for companies. On the contrary, we should concentrate on measures that make business easier and reduce the regulatory burden. There will be no more rules. Unfortunately, this dossier is quite the opposite, and I regret that.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-55	Madam President, I would like Today is finally the time for debate and decision on the government bill An entrepreneurial responsibility for wage claims in the construction industry. Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and for all motions to be rejected. The Swedish construction industry does not consist of a large bunch of criminal entrepreneurs who only use more or less criminal methods, which override occupational health and safety responsibilities and exploit staff. Sometimes you can be fooled to believe that when you listen to the debate about the construction industry. Actually, it's the other way around. The vast majority of the industry consists of serious entrepreneurs with ambitious staff who do everything they can to comply with laws and regulations in the Swedish labour market. It is not least for those companies that this bill is presented at the table of the Riksdag. Madam President, I would like However, there are problems in the industry, as we have already heard. We agree on this. There are problems with rogue companies and unhealthy competition, which makes it difficult for serious companies to get around. There are rogue entrepreneurs who shamelessly exploit staff and engage in submissive competition at all levels. They do not comply with employment conditions or safety and health and safety rules. We have all heard about them and read disgusting reports in the media. Several of us have also met employees who have suffered, sat face to face with them and listened to their stories. Only the day before yesterday, I read in a debate article from the Swedish Construction Industries about a recent survey by the Swedish Tax Agency. According to it, 53 percent of construction companies agree with the claim that black wages exist in our industry. Five years ago the corresponding figure was 26 per cent. So this is an alarming increase, to say the least. In the same article you can read that the number of reports of irregularities has increased by a quarter, and then we are talking about quite serious forms of crime – tax offences, money laundering and crimes against the Aliens Act. Sweden's construction industries want zero tolerance against cheating in the construction industry. Similarly, the trade union Building obviously wants the cheating and exploitation of personnel to disappear completely from the industry. I am the first to support the obvious settings. The industry's partners have made many good efforts to strengthen healthy competition. However, too many people are still suffering in the industry, and, as I said, competition is distorted. Madam President, I would like Of course, we cannot accept that. Therefore, the government is now presenting the proposal for an entrepreneurial responsibility in the construction industry. The aim of the law is for workers employed by subcontractors in the industry to be protected from their pay, but also to counteract the unhealthy competition that I have already talked about. In concrete terms, the draft law means that an employee who does not receive a salary from his employer should be able to have his claim paid from another entrepreneur in the chain. In the first instance, the employee must go to the entrepreneur who has hired his or her employer and, in the second place, to the main contractor. The basic perspective of the legislation is that the individual employee should be left unscrupulous. The entrepreneur who has paid the salary may then proceed and claim compensation from the employer who is guilty. This entrepreneurial responsibility applies to both Swedish and foreign companies and includes all employees in a construction and employment contract in Sweden, including seconded workers from other EU countries. The legislative proposal also contains provisions on the right to transparency in the construction chains. It is quite crucial for such legislation to work. The employee or the employee's representative organisation should simply be able to find out which company is responsible for entrepreneurship. The law does not prevent collective agreements on entrepreneurship from being concluded. However, the collective agreement must provide equivalent protection, which can be considered reasonable in the case of wage claims. Madam President, I would like There are three reservations in the report. They're all from the bourgeois parties. One reservation calls for the whole proposal to be rejected, and another for a simplified form of entrepreneurial responsibility. We have made the assessment that it is not enough to tackle the problems that exist in the industry. It has been said from the floor here that this is symbolic policy and over-implementment. This is nothing new that we have come to now. This is an old electoral promise from the Social Democratic Labour Party. These requirements have existed both from industry representatives and from employee representatives in the industry for a long time. This is true social democratic policy. A reservation proposes to postpone the entry into force of this Act until 1 January 2019. As I just said, this legislation does not come as a flash from a clear blue sky. It's been in demand for a long time. We went out with it as an election promise. The legislative proposal has been dealt with in the same way as all the legislative proposals. It has been worked out and been out on the usual consultation round and it has been known that it will come. None of the consultation bodies has had any criticism whatsoever of the date of implementation of this legislation. That is why we believe that entry into force on 1 August is entirely reasonable. There is a need for order in the construction industry, and we cannot afford to wait another day too much for it.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-73	Madam President, I would like I will start with the fact that we agree that the industry as a whole is serious, but there are rogue actors who are causing problems. We come to completely different conclusions on which this legislation affects. I believe that this affects the serious companies. At the end of his speech, Mr Pettersson referred to the entry into force. Today is 19 June, and we are going to make decisions. In two days it is midsummer, and then many go on vacation. If I've counted correctly, it's 43 days until this law comes into effect. It's a very short time. Although not to blame for holidays, 43 days is a very short time for implementation. As Helén Pettersson says, we have known about this bill for a very long time. There have been several investigations with different proposals, and the proposal makes further changes. It has not been easy, and it is not possible to prepare before you know what is actually going to apply. I am surprised that the government has not taken longer to introduce this, which would have been reasonable. Then my question to Mrs Pettersson is whether she believes that this is a reasonable time to implement such a comprehensive piece of legislation.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-77	Madam President, I would like Yes, we believe that it is a reasonable time for entry into force. It is not at all unusual for us to pass laws in this House this spring, which will enter into force on 1 July. It is not at all unusual to have a short time for the implementation of new legislation. Many of the previous speakers have referred to the referral to this bill. There is not a single consultation body that has questioned the entry into force of the legislation. Therefore, I was surprised by the reservation of the bourgeois parties. I can also remind you of previous years when the bourgeois parties have been very quick to adopt new legislation and new rules, not least when it has been about reducing the unemployment fund for individuals. That proposal was barely prepared at all. That law came into force at once. Then there's the backlog in the health insurance. There was little time for conversion for the individual individuals. In such cases, the transition for individuals is much greater, more extensive and harder than it is to implement new legislation on main contractors' responsibility in the construction industry. No, I still think it is entirely reasonable to introduce this on 1 August.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-81	Madam President, I would like I don't want to pit groups against each other in any way. In addition, entrepreneurs are also individuals. What we in all alliance parties have tried to explain is that this is in danger of affecting small businesses. They will be paid longer, and many agreements will have to be reviewed. It has not been possible to do so until you know what will be in the text of the law, and that has not been known for very long. You can't get away with it. I shall not argue that the referral bodies do not have this in their referrals. That's an irrelevant question. I think it is irresponsible not to give the whole industry a longer transition period for this.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-84	Madam President, I would like Some referrals are keen to highlight the discussion, but not all of them. This can also be considered surprising. I note that every time we in this House want to strengthen the rights of the workers, the individual employees, it is turned from the bourgeois parties as something that affects companies. I wish we could see the whole picture. Those now affected are individuals. Those affected by the unhealthy competition in the construction industry today are, above all, small serious companies. This legislation is also preventive and also to protect small serious companies so that they have a chance to assert themselves on the market. No, this is not something we do to be mean to small businesses, on the contrary. This is what we are doing to create a healthy industry.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-88	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating entrepreneurial responsibility for wage claims in the construction industry. With 25 years of experience in the construction industry, I have personally experienced all the problems that Sweden's membership of the EU has opened up to within the Swedish construction industry. the construction industry. It's about wage dumping, lack of work environment work, undeclared work – yes, the list can be made long. When these characteristics are used as a competitive factor, the biggest losers are Swedish employees and serious companies. We are now receiving signals of a start to a new recession in the construction industry and that competition for jobs will increase. We in the Swedish Democrats see the proposal as a step in the right direction to create healthy competition in the Swedish labour market where the biggest winners are the serious companies and their employees. I have met many larger, smaller and medium-sized companies who think this is a good proposal. The negative view of the Alliance's representatives that companies think this is a bad proposal, I do not agree. A small parenthesis is that one may find it strange that the government wants to address problems that have been created through EU membership while pushing the issue of a European Labour Market Authority, which in the long term is a danger both to entrepreneurial responsibility and to the whole of the Swedish model. This is something that can be considered in the future, but it is another issue. On the whole, we think the proposal is a good one. This will lead to increased order in the construction industry. On the other hand, we have reservations about the entry into force of the law on 1 August. We must give businesses an honest chance to prepare themselves, to understand the law and to educate and inform internally. The government seems to have completely missed the way it's going to happen. The construction holiday falls in week 28 and lasts for four weeks. Most construction companies then close down. Then the law will enter into force immediately. When I have made contact with construction companies in particular, many have mostly been in favour of the proposal, but they have had strong objections to the short preparation time to understand what is going to apply. Madam President, I would like Because of these circumstances, the Swedish Democrats will vote in favour of the introduction of the law, but will enter into force on 1 January 2019. I therefore propose to the Alliance's reservation 2.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-94	Madam President, I would like It was interesting to hear how Magnus Persson began his speech by talking about the negative with EU legislation that is introduced and affects Sweden and the construction industry. The Swedish Democrats have written a motion on the main entrepreneurship responsibility for the seconded. In our last debate, which we had a few months ago, you referred in the Swedish Democrats to legislation that you think is good. But this bill goes much further than your proposal. This applies not only to seconded personnel but to all a. It's not just one line, it's multiple ranks. As several of us here have mentioned, this is a real gold-plating, something that the Swedish Democrats normally do not think is very good, which also Magnus Persson began his speech by saying. I think it's a little strange. As we have tried to explain, this will also risk affecting small businesses. You say in your election manifesto that you want to improve the conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises. What are you saying to small businesses now that you are increasing the regulation and administrative burden on these companies?
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-98	Madam President, I would like My experience is that this proposal has quite good support in many serious small businesses. I've been around and met a lot of construction companies. They think it's a good idea. I disagree with you and disagree with your interpretation of the problem, Mrs Roswall. I think it is a good proposal, and many companies feel the same. I don't know what else to say. I believe that this will benefit serious small businesses. Much of these problems are based on the posted labour force and the ability to establish themselves in Sweden that the EU opened up to foreign companies. 90% of these problems concern foreign companies, and that is no secret. That's what it looks like. I've been working in this business for 25 years. I know exactly what this is about. I've met entrepreneurs. I've met unions. I've met a lot of people and discussed these problems, and they agree. I do not buy the Alliance's view of the problem at all.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-102	Madam President, I would like But if 90 percent of the problems are about foreign companies, why didn't your proposal just apply, Magnus Persson? There were such investigative proposals. This proposal will apply to everyone. I have also met many companies and have read referrals from the flooring industry, construction industries, installer companies and others. They argue that this will affect small serious companies, which will not be allowed to participate in procurements and which will have increased risk mark-ups, longer pay-offs and so on. How will start-ups of serious companies get into this business with your proposal?
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-104	Madam President, I would like I have also met representatives of the specialist companies you mention in your speech, Jessika Roswall. Of course, they look after their little niche, but I look after the entire construction industry. If a legislative proposal is tabled, a certain niche cannot be taken into account. We need to look at the whole picture. I think this is a great proposal. This is a step in the right direction for healthy competition for all companies. I do not agree at all with the description of the problem that the Alliance has, and it is based on my own experience and on contacts with both companies and representatives of companies.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-106	Madam President, I would like Today's a good day. It is a good day for all those who are currently working in the construction sector or are planning to do so in the future, and it is a good day for everyone else who understands the value of a well-functioning labour market with serious players and with respect for the time, skills and security of the workers. The report we are debating today concerns the introduction of entrepreneurial responsibility for wage claims in the construction sector. It is another of the quite many steps taken by now during this term of office to improve the Swedish labour market. By addressing concrete problems that exist in different sectors and adding the right for flexible solutions, the legislator, that is, we here in Parliament, can support the development of the Swedish economy in a positive direction. We know that the safety of workers and healthy competitive conditions are driving better productivity developments and that the costs and benefits that exist at the social level are more reasonably distributed. Madam President, I would like The proposal put forward by the government is in itself quite specific. As we have heard here before, it is a question of workers who have earned their salary but receive it from a construction or civil engineering contractor being able to go to the employer and then to the main contractor for the construction. If one has done one's part and built something or done something about a well-established main contractor, it should not be dribbled away by unclear responsibilities. This is basically a codification – we make the law of course. This kind of regulation helps to combat the presence of fraudsters and less accurate operators who are attracted to large construction projects. But it also becomes a constant reminder to established and well-functioning actors that they cannot squeeze out their profits by, for example, passing on the assignment to subcontractors who are clearly too cheap. You have to look into it better. Like the government, I would like to emphasise that this is both a model that strengthens the opportunities for individual workers to get their rightful salary in situations where employers fall in some direction and – perhaps more importantly in the long term – can work preventively and lead to a higher degree of self-remediation in the industry. An important aspect of the bill is of course that the rules also apply to posting situations, i.e. situations where companies with registered offices outside Sweden use workers who usually do not work in Sweden but are sent here to work more or less temporarily. One important thing there is that in these situations it is often particularly difficult for people who have been used and do not get their salary to make their right and make use of other opportunities available in Sweden to obtain the salary they are entitled to. Madam President, I would like This is a proposal for legislation that, through its construction, goes very well into the Swedish labour market model. It is basically a piece of legislation on protection. It shall protect persons who are in a vulnerable position as they have done a job but are still not receiving compensation for it. But the legislation also has dispositive elements; organised social partners can incorporate the new system into their collective agreements. It will then be a new basis for collective agreements, where other rules can be agreed covering similar situations and providing the protection to which the worker is entitled. This enhances the important role of collective agreements. This is something we have been in favour of on the part of the Left Party, while at the same time pushing for legislation. We have previously exercised on so-called joint and several liability of the kind that exists in Norway, for example. That is why we were very in favour of the trade union Building fighting for joint and several liability clauses in the agreement with the Swedish Construction Industries a few years ago. However, we have also pointed out that these are principles that should be able to come into law. It is common in Sweden to go ahead with large agreements. The legislator can then conclude that this is something that should apply in general. As in this case, the legislator is happy to rely rather heavily on the concrete solution and model developed in collective agreements. It is easy to agree with the Chairman of Building, Johan Lindholm, who says that Building has once again led the way by taking responsibility for the development of the construction industry. How the Swedish party model works when it is good. I have noted that the new law will be the basis for future collective agreements. Law and contract go hand in hand in an effective way. Madam President, I would like The truly remarkable thing about today's case is that there are four parties opposed to this improvement and, in the first place, propose that the bill be rejected in its entirety. It is the four previous government parties, which, moreover, were commissioned in 2012 by the Riksdag to produce something in this area, which, however, was not done. In the accompanying motion of the bourgeois parties and in the argumentation that we have heard here today, there are several elements that form a pattern along with bourgeois argumentation on some similar issues. For example, they claim to agree that there are problems. That is a good thing, when it is obvious to everyone else for a long time. Then it is said that it is important to do something about it. However, no solution is proposed that responds to the problem itself. This has been the case in other situations, for example when we have discussed the rules and conditions for posted workers in general, and so on this issue too. It is also a little funny to say that this is a problem that is not so common that it requires legislation. However, if legislation were to be introduced, it would suddenly be very difficult for a huge number of people. It's a little awkward approach to logic, it feels like. It also leans from the bourgeois side towards the EU to try to weaken the workers' side. In this matter, the bourgeois parties are talking about the over-implementing of EU directives. Sweden does not have to provide workers with better protection against the loss of wages, and it will be sad if we do so anyway. This is the same approach that we could, for example, take in the debate on the so-called Laval law. After a judgment by the Court of Justice of the European Union, it was then possible to restrict the right of conflict in the case of posting situations considerably more than the judgment gave rise to. There we can talk about over-implementing. Fortunately, that legislation has finally changed. Furthermore, there were quite unfounded claims about the Swedish model and the role of collective agreements. It is claimed, for example, that the autonomy of the parties would be threatened when, as I said earlier, what is in principle the opposite. The parties have such a strong role that they can even agree on deviations from an important legislation if they fulfil the purpose of the law of the collective agreement. In addition, it is quite strong in order to come from a place where, for example, we say no to parties' agreements on start-up jobs in an issue that is absolutely central to the Swedish model, namely wage setting, and instead want to go forward with statutory wage reduction. Madam President, I would like Overall, we can see that today we can take an important step forward in an area where there is a need for strong legislation. We can see that the bourgeois parties may, in an expected yet remarkable way, reject the proposals. They turn a little inside out to prevent extremely vulnerable workers from being given enhanced protection. They do so because somewhere they feel that there may be some employer who would have to pay wages for workers who have done things for the employer but in a second or third line. This is something that is quite telling about the priorities that one has on the bourgeois side and the view of society that one embraces. For the Left, we welcome the proposal, which we have been calling for for a long time. I therefore call for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for the supplementary motions to be rejected.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-124	Madam President, I would like One in four employers in the construction industry believes that they cannot survive without cheating with the regulations, according to the Swedish Work Environment Authority. The construction industry is particularly sensitive to financial irregularities, as the industry structure often involves long chains of subcontractors. According to the Authority, it is relatively easy to place a limited liability company as a criminal tool in such construction chains. Common to the principals is that they use goaltenders, fronts, fictitious persons and aliases to distance themselves from the crimes. It's a statement from the EFC. A high degree of long construction chains is a risk factor for fraud as well as for other types of crime. It's said by the Crime Prevention Council. It is quite clear that the construction industry is facing major problems. There's criminality. There are different levels of exploitation of people. There are dangerous and sometimes lethal working conditions. This leads to unsound competition that is competing out serious companies that want to do the right thing. It is clear to me that this cannot be accepted, but must do something about it. Cheating and purely criminal activities in the construction industry must be stopped. It is also obvious that if there was a quick fix to solve this, it would surely have been already done. We need to have the courage to endure and step by step towards what is needed to ensure fair competition and secure conditions and remove crime from the entire construction industry. That is why we have tabled this bill. It is a piece of the puzzle in order, order and integrity in the construction industry. The purpose is for us to get the construction chains in order. It is precisely the construction chain that so many authorities point out as a particular risk factor for crime and exploitation. The proposal that we are now debating means that a worker in the construction sector who is not paid for his work in a contract should be able to have his or her salary paid by another contractor in the chain and ultimately the main contractor. In the first place, this applies to the contractor who has engaged and, in the second place, to the main contractor. If this happens, the main contractor can of course get the money back from the subcontractor later, but the individual is protected. An important part of this is that the bill means that the employee and his or her trade union representative must have the right to information about the actors in the construction chain. Any breach of that information obligation shall be liable to damages. Madam President, I would like I have listened carefully to the debate. I guess I don't really understand the options of the four bourgeois parties. I do not see any alternative. On the one hand, it is said that it is symbolic policy, and on the other hand it says that it leads to enormous difficulties for companies. I can recall how the debate went in Norway when the corresponding legislation was introduced on the Norwegian labour market. Then the bourgeois parties in Norway also sounded that way. There would be enormous difficulties for companies. But it didn't. On the contrary, the Norwegian companies say that they think it has worked well in Norway. I think you should take it a little bit with a pinch of salt. I will comment and answer some of the questions that have been asked. First of all, I would like to say that the law has been designed in order to protect collective agreements so that the collective agreements that have been or will be reached between the players in the labour market who have already taken the lead with entrepreneurship responsibility can apply. What we do with legislation is protect collective agreements by ensuring that those who sign collective agreements do not have worse conditions than those without collective agreements. With this legislation, companies without collective agreements will also have to comply with entrepreneurial responsibility. It gives an advantage to the companies that have signed contracts. The design of the law has been precisely in order to protect collective agreements. I have heard here in the debate that temporary agency work should be excluded. They're not. That is also explicitly stated in the bill. Temporary work agencies are not exempted from legislation. There have been concerns about small businesses here. Let me say that many of those who welcome the legislation are just small businesses. Larger companies sometimes cope with some unhealthy competition and can still survive by their size. Small companies can't. Small businesses may see their entire business activity go unsettled by rogue operators competing under unfair conditions. They may be forced into bankruptcy by the fact that others can sell the services much cheaper, not because it is allowed but because there is no control. Together with Bygg Stockholm-Gotland, the Stockholm Building Master's Association has formed its own work to overcome this. They have their own organisation that the parties themselves fund to deal with rogue actors. Last year it was only here in Stockholm 141 notifications to Fair Play Bygg, which is run by the Stockholm Building Master Association and Bygg Stockholm-Gotland. 55 of them were passed on to responsible authorities, such as the Swedish Tax Agency or the Swedish Work Environment Agency. The parties do what is reasonable is the responsibility of society: to frame cheaters and criminals. It is the responsibility of society to keep that order. Madam President, I would like It is remarkable that here we can hear representatives of bourgeois parties one by one coming up and saying that they want sound conditions in the construction industry. The Moderates claim to be a party that invests in the area of crime and punishment and wants to deal with crime. Yet you do not have any proposals on how to solve crime and cheating in the construction industry. You say no to our proposals in the area by area and do not have any proposals of your own. When you ran the Department of Labour, you made it easier for cheating and purely criminal companies to operate in our labour market on a point-by-point basis. You cut resources into health and safety policies, and there were fewer opportunities for inspections. You imposed far-reaching restrictions on taking action. You introduced lex Laval, which in practice made it impossible for the union to control companies from other countries who send their workers to Sweden. You introduced a system of establishment slots that opened up to rogue and criminal activities such as fraud, bribery, threats, blackmail and the sale of registered addresses. You introduced the world's most liberal labour immigration rules, which have led to the gross exploitation of workers with slavery-like conditions and widespread crime and cheating in the wake of labour immigration. On television yesterday we saw asbestos removal by people brought here as labour immigrants from other countries only in order to be able to carry out the work without complying with safety standards. It is dangerous for the employees and dangerous also for the children in preschool that the report was about. We have now cleaned up after you, step by step. We've torn up lex Laval. We have abolished the system of establishment slots. We have a new way of working with the Swedish Work Environment Authority with new resources and cooperation with the authorities to frame the bad guys, and it works. We have been the driving force in the negotiations on amended EU rules so that it is possible to demand equal pay for equal work. You were against that. You have also said no to new procurement rules that make it possible to impose conditions in line with collective agreements and thus make it more difficult for companies that want to dump the conditions on the Swedish labour market. Step by step we are doing what is necessary, and I have a promise: I will do what is necessary, step by step, until we have order and order, healthy conditions and good working conditions throughout the construction and construction markets.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-149	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech, the Minister for Employment. I can see that it is an election year, and then it is easy to blame what happened four years ago and not to mention what you have managed to achieve yourself. As far as the speech is concerned, I agree with the Minister for Labour about the first two minutes – we need to get things straight in the construction industry. But what I devoted the first part of my speech to was to try to understand why unpaid wages are precisely what the government is running for. After all, there is not even a proposal or a clear assumption in the proposal that that is the problem. Now I heard that the Minister for Labour also brought up Fair Play Bygg. I think we all got their brochure in our mailboxes a while ago. It contains a number of proposals. Among other things, it is to have better controls – for example, of those who work without a work permit, which I also mentioned in my speech – and that controls need to be developed between authorities. There is a need to reduce confidentiality between public authorities and to establish collaboration between public authorities. Several of the proposals have been implemented in the past, and several have been highlighted here. My first question, then, is why we do not want to solve the real, real problem. Then I have a little detail question. For those who read the proposals, it sometimes seems that you have not understood how the industry works. It can be a small pipe company or other installation company that goes around during the day and does their jobs on different projects with different clients and different main contractors. Where should a staff member of such a firm claim his unpaid salary?
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-153	Madam President, I would like I am proud of what we have achieved during this parliamentary term in terms of order and order in the labour market. We have introduced new possibilities for controls through both cooperation between authorities and a new legislation that allows the police to go out to work to check, for example, whether people are working without a work permit. We have made a long series of changes. But even with the legislation we have on the table, I am not sure that is enough. My promise is that I will continue to do what is necessary until we reach order. When it comes to getting the construction chain in order in the construction sector, in principle all actors who have knowledge and knowledge of crime in that industry point to the vulnerability of long construction chains and poor control in the construction chains. It is our assessment that, through the obligation to pay the salary, the main contractor is forced to have a completely different control over his subcontractors and put it in his contract, and that is clearly the aim. The aim is not – and I do not think it is – that people should ask for pay from someone other than their employer. The aim is to remove the rogue subcontractors from the market.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-156	Madam President, I would like Once again, I think we are talking about criminality and increased controls, but not about unpaid wages, which is the crux of the matter. I agree that we need to increase the level of government controls. I agree that, of course, the entrepreneurial chain should have controls. However, all that is being raised comes with increased risks, and I do not hear a word about that from the Minister for Labour. Among other things, there is a risk of lower pay times and increased costs for the construction industry. It's not something we normally want. Furthermore, I do not hear anything about the increased risk that several of the consultation bodies have pointed out: that this opens the door to a new rogue market, where one can take advantage of this that someone else should pay the employees' wages. I have not heard anything about that question. Again, I think it is a mistake that you do not look at the problem itself but try to argue to solve a problem that does not exist.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-161	Madam President, I would like It's interesting to listen to Jessika Roswall. Yes, she says, we need government control. Absolutely, I agree. We can decide on that, and so do we. We've done that. When it comes to entrepreneurs' control over their subcontractors, Jessika Roswall says that they should be in control. Yeah, we all think so. The problem is, they don't have it. That is why we also need legislation that actually forces the main contractor to have control in its entrepreneurial chain. I do not believe that there is any Swedish main contractor who wants the subcontractors to exploit their employees, pay them poor wages or not pay them at all or have poor working conditions. I don't think anyone wants to. But they don't have that kind of control. That is why we are introducing legislation that forces them to do so so so that we can get things right in the entrepreneurial chains. Some companies have already been at the forefront of being main contractors with control on the contracting chains. Everything indicates that it is precisely control in the construction chain that is the crux of the matter, because that is where much of the crime finds its loopholes to get through. Here in the speaker's chair, many risks have been painted with the new legislation and how bad it will be for different companies, both small and large. I would like to point out Norway once again. Norway has had this legislation for many years. There were many fears there too. They haven't come true. Instead, it is considered that the current legislation is actually working fairly well. I can see that it will also work well in Sweden, but of course we will follow the implementation of the legislation. If necessary, we can make adjustments, but not acting is not an option.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-166	Madam President, I would like I agree with what the Government has to say about unfair competition. We in the Center Party, too, are keen to get to the real problem. What I am concerned about in this legislation is that it shoots alongside and does not face what is the real problem of unfair competition, which most of us have heard in the reporting of various media. That said, it should be pointed out that most companies in the industry are serious and want order. What I see as a major problem with legislation and its design is shifting the risks. Small businesses further down the entrepreneurial chain are at risk of liquidity problems as the main contractor will hold back its payments for a much longer period of time. Even if you take reasonable control measures as an entrepreneur, you do not have the protection you can expect. The most important thing is that control measures are taken and that there are different ways of dealing with those who are the real problem. I would just like to hear whether Ylva Johansson sees no risk whatsoever that small businesses will be affected by longer paid periods for them, which would create liquidity problems for these companies.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-170	Madam President, I would like Long pay times are an evil that affects small businesses. This is a very important issue and something that the Minister for Economic Affairs has worked hard on. I know that the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Parliament also believes that it is an important issue with a new regulation to ensure that subcontractors and small businesses can be paid on time. I think we agree on this. I do not see an increased problem with this with the new legislation. Instead, I see better control over who is hired by subcontractors, so that the main contractor not only knows his subcontractor, but also requires transparency as to which subcontractor the contractor uses and which subcontractor the next contractor in turn uses. Then we'll have control. I trust that the main contractors, the large companies, want control, and I know that they have the capacity to have it. With the new legislation, they also have a strong incentive to really exercise the control that is needed to put the construction chain in order and to get away from fronts, false companies and purely criminal activities, which are currently flourishing among these subcontractors.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-173	Madam President, I would like I share the view that it is important to get to grips with unhealthy competition. It can be pointed out again. However, I understand that Minister Ylva Johansson sees no risk in the fact that, with what is being introduced, there will be a longer pay period, which goes against what several consultation bodies have pointed out as the risk of the new legislation. Another problem is that new companies in the industry are becoming increasingly difficult to establish because it becomes clearer that they will retain the subcontractors they know, which creates greater entry for small and new companies in the construction sector. If you come as a newcomer and companies carry out reasonable control measures, the risk is ultimately imminent for larger companies, which makes it increasingly difficult for the newcomers. Does Ylva Johansson not see any challenges with new, serious and often specialised companies finding it more difficult to enter the construction industry?
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-176	Madam President, I would like I don't think you should exaggerate those risks. We already have experience. We have an entrepreneurial responsibility in a very large part of the Swedish construction labour market, through collective agreements. We've had that for years. Norway has a legislative entrepreneurial responsibility that it has had for many years. From this we can learn some lessons. The fears that Fredrik Christensson raises have not come true. So I'm not worried. I feel proud that we are now going forward with another piece of the puzzle to create order and order throughout the construction industry. Madam President, I would like In my last speech here this parliamentary term, I would like to take this opportunity to thank my fellow and counter-debaters in the Committee on Employment for their good and constructive cooperation on very many issues and for stimulating debates, here in this House and elsewhere. I would like to wish you all a nice summer with some time off and hope that we meet in the election campaign. Happy summer!
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-180	Madam President, I would like We are now going to debate the Government's proposal for increased access to basic competences for professional programmes and an aesthetic subject in all national programmes. I will focus entirely on the former, and my dear colleague from the Green Party will take up the second main proposal. This is a bill that is very much awaited by industry, trade unions, teachers and students. It would make professional programmes more attractive and make them a real option for many students who today choose to read a theoretical programme. It retains the parts of Jan Björklund's high school reform that have proved to be working well and corrects the mistakes that the moderate-led government caused and that everyone now sees is obvious. Today we are debating a bill that solves problems that exist outside this House – problems in reality. For example, there is a lack of sheet metal workers in Oskarshamn, nurses in Dorotea, vvs- fitters in Gothenburg and children's nurses in Härnösand. This bill aims to solve problems that exist throughout the country. It has been developed after a solid high school inquiry, where all parties have been represented. It has been anchored and developed together with industry and industry to solve problems they see. The government and the Social Democrats see the problems and have a proposal on which we will vote today. We should be able to agree on this in the Swedish Parliament. Unfortunately, we are no longer. Unfortunately, the bourgeois, together with the Swedish Democrats today, will allow party tactics to take precedence over Sweden's best. This is a sign of weakness – for the bourgeoisie in general and the Moderates in particular. Madam President, I would like Full, high-quality upper secondary education is today an important and necessary basis for young people's entry into the labour market. Therefore, all pupils should be given the opportunity to reach full upper secondary education. Everything else is a betrayal on the part of society. The government has therefore taken several steps over the last four years to allow more people to begin and complete a high school degree and to increase quality, and we have established a right to komvux. A few weeks ago we debated and decided on a series of proposals for more students to complete their degree: better transitions, classroom mentors, more developed support, clearer responsibility for the Vice-Chancellor to follow up on absenteeism and improvement of the introduction programs. We have also added SEK 300 million per year to improve the quality of the introduction programmes. We have developed more than 50 coherent buildable professional packages, which can be used in the introduction programmes and in vocational adult education and training. This aims to make vocational education and training at upper secondary level more individual and flexible. To this will be added the Government's decision to set up two additional investigations, one to introduce subject grades and one to review whether upper secondary education can be regionalised in order to ensure better supply and governance across the country. The studies we have already had in the high school field have delivered over 200 sharp proposals. Some of these have been legislative proposals that have come to this House for decision. Others have been things that the government itself has been able to decide on, for example in the High School Decree. I am very happy that last week the government decided to tighten up the high school regulation when it comes to the school having cohesive school days, so that the hole hours disappear. I know that this issue has involved many people in this committee. The motivation for introducing higher education qualifications into professional programmes as the norm, with the possibility of opting out, is self-evident and simple. It's enough to look at reality. Since 2011 the moderate-led government lowered the requirements and removed university qualifications as the norm, the number of students studying a vocational programme has decreased by over a third. Let this sink in. Every year, more than 16,000 fewer pupils begin on a vocational programme than before the introduction of Gy 20 11. This is evident in reality. I and many with me believe that if 16 000 more skilled students had each year come out into business and welfare, it would have made a big difference. What we are debating today is precisely about this: we simply need to get more students to go to vocational training, because we really need them. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and Industry and LO have together carried out studies where it has been shown that the students themselves say that they do not seek professional programmes because they do not want to end up in a dead end. That's what the students say. Most youths want to know that they can continue to study. They also know that the labour market is changing. But this does not apply to everyone. Young people are different. Some students may want and need to concentrate their studies on professional subjects. That is why we are proposing that it should be possible to opt out of substances. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, the bill that would make the professional programmes more attractive will fall. Jan Björklund's mistakes will not be corrected today. It makes me sad, disappointed, surprised and actually angry too. I get angry because I believe in politics that are real. We must be able to agree on important things here in the Swedish Parliament, for example on the supply of skills in our country. I'm most disappointed in the Moderates. Let me explain why. I've been in the whole process. I have been a member of the parliamentary reference group. I have negotiated both with my own party and with others. I have debated, and I do not know how many industries I have visited together with the Moderates, where managers, business leaders and professional workers have said: Get along now! They have demanded that we agree. We Social Democrats and Moderates have said: Yes, we agree! And we've had applause. The representative of the Moderates in the High School inquiry, Michael Svensson, announced that they were behind the proposal. I know it's been anchored in the leadership and the Moderate voice. Then I have heard the Moderate Finance Minister Svantesson say that it was a mistake to remove university qualifications and that the Moderates therefore want to reintroduce it. I've read motions from Ulf Kristersson. I have read a long interview with Moderates' former school political spokesperson Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, where she discussed why university qualifications need to come back. Last I heard in the parliamentary debate on 7 March that Maria Stockhaus had announced that the Moderates agreed with the government to reinstate higher education qualifications. Madam President, I would like All those who have committed themselves to this important issue would therefore guess that the Moderates today would vote in favour of the government's proposal. If a gaming company had set up odds, you wouldn't have got the money back if you'd played it. But what's going on? A few weeks after Maria Stockhaus's announcement in this House, the political parties hold a press conference in which they say they are going to close the bill. Why? What is one's motive? What happened? Honestly, I don't get it. But that's definitely not the worst part. The industries, trade unions, teachers, pupils, municipalities and independent schools, all of which had begun to prepare for the change, do not understand either. Nobody understands anything. Madam President, I would like If the Moderates were to change again after my speech and vote in favour of the government's proposal to increase the score on professional programmes, the reform would automatically be financed by a mere billion in the budget adopted by Parliament. That money was ready to be sent out to the schools. Now it seems to be a no, so that money will stay in the treasury. The money that municipalities and independent principals have planned for says the bourgeoisie and SD today no to. I hope you will explain this to your fellow party members in Täby, for example, who have announced that they will implement the government's proposals anyway. A few weeks ago Erik Bengtzboe stood here in the speaker's chair and said that there is only a semantic difference between our positions. "Choose or opt out – there's no difference," he said. In such cases, I wonder: Why, then, did the bill fall? Why should we start at square one in the next term of office? No matter who forms a government, we need to solve the supply of skills. Why do the Moderates and other bourgeois parties believe that we will get more students to choose professional programmes if we continue to do as we do today? Why not do what the students are asking for, what the industries are asking for, and which largely united opinion is behind? What has been investigated, negotiated, referred to and supported by an almost united industry is being rejected today, with the motivation, among other things, that fewer students would then apply for vocational programmes. As an argument, referrals are used in a dishonest way. This has led organizations to write articles of debate and to pay attention to the fact that the bourgeoisie uses them as arguments. I look forward to the explanation for the reversal in subsequent debates and strongly support reservation 1. On other points, I support the committee's proposal.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-203	Madam President, I would like Swedish school faces major challenges and problems. The result of three-and-a-half years of red-green government is declining study results, lack of study and peace of mind and a rapidly increasing lack of teachers. The need for knowledge-focused reforms from the next government is therefore great. Madam President, I would like School is the foundation for creating life opportunities for people. The school is the ultimate guarantor that Sweden becomes a country where people do not have to inherit their parents' exclusion. The school is also the foundation for competence provision for Sweden. For us, as a small, innovative and export-dependent country on the outskirts of Europe, it is with knowledge and competence that we should compete. It is through the school that we provide this for both companies and the important welfare throughout our country. Substandard prior knowledge is a major problem for the supply of skills, as is the biased dimension of training places in our country. We see shortcomings in many professions, both at upper secondary and higher education levels, but in some areas the situation is considerably worse than in others. Attractiveness of vocational programmes in upper secondary school has declined for decades. It will therefore also be a problem for the Swedish labour market. Today we are going to discuss the details of this bill, which concerns professional programmes in high school. At the outset, however, let me be extremely clear about what is the main problem. The main problem for vocational programmes in upper secondary and Swedish schools is that one in six pupils is not even eligible for upper secondary school. In the previous academic year alone, more than 18 000 pupils left the Swedish comprehensive school without being qualified and having the opportunity to choose between a pre-study or a pre-vocational programme. I'm afraid it doesn't look like it's getting any better this year either. For the individual, of course, this is a huge problem. The doors to adult life are closed, and the betrayal of the adult world is monumental, to say the least. A large part of the student documentation for vocational programmes is made up of people who, due to lack of prior knowledge, are unable to move forward. We also see how, in upper secondary education, whether they are vocational or preparatory, they complain about falling prior knowledge of the pupils and that upper secondary school is forced to compensate for deficiencies from primary school. Madam President, I would like Let me come to the proposal in substance, however, and why we in the Alliance are opposed to the way it is designed. In the bill, the government has chosen to make a number of changes to appease different interests in the Swedish upper secondary school, with the typical result that there is a half-way compromise that actually leaves everyone dissatisfied. Changes in scheduling shall be made with regard to the higher education preparatory courses of the vocational programmes. There is a requirement for aesthetic subjects to be mandatory in all upper secondary education programmes. In addition, it is proposed to halve secondary school work. All in all, there is an imminent risk that this will lead to increased drop-outs and lower labour market links, particularly with regard to professional programmes, which would be extremely negative. In a situation where we need to strengthen both the quality and the link with the labour market in vocational programmes, we are therefore implementing a policy that risks eroded precisely that. Vocational courses need to be quality assured by the School Inspectorate and industry, and industries need to have a greater influence on the content of education and training if professional programmes are to become more attractive. The college model can be the basis for this, so to speak, which has very successfully shown that this is possible. Madam President, I would like Attractiveness of professional programmes depends primarily on their quality. An extremely important element in ensuring the quality of vocational programmes is secondary work, which serves as an important link between upper secondary school and the outside labour market. This is highlighted by a number of consultation bodies, including the Swedish National Agency for Education, which also notes that the proposed halving of upper secondary school work proposed by the government risks leading to secondary school work no longer being able to fulfil its function. The important link to the labour market is thus being lost, and the link between the labour market and vocational programmes is becoming worse in a situation where it would need to be improved. This is extremely serious criticism of a problem that we find ourselves in, but which the government and government parties choose to ignore completely and which they never ever address – neither in this pulpit nor anywhere else. This is a lack of attractiveness and a lack of results in terms of employability. These changes risk further undermining the main mission of education. If you're going to do this, you probably need stronger motivations than you can actually deliver in this bill. Madam President, I would like It then applies to university qualifications in vocational programmes. First of all, let us be honest about the fact that what is being offered is the basic university qualification, which is extremely limited. It is a small proportion of higher education that you will be entitled to move on to. I think it is important to emphasise this, because it is important to be honest with what we are delivering from this House. Let me also make it extremely clear that one is no better than the other. There has long been a clear picture in this country and perhaps most clearly in this House that there is an ambition that as many people as possible should continue to study and that it is better to go to college than to get vocational training. But nothing could be more wrong. For many, this is just a waste of time and nothing else. Basically, everyone in this House is in agreement, despite the frantic rhetoric that has to be endured by the Social Democrats. It is not a party that wants to make it mandatory to enter higher education qualifications in the upper secondary school vocational programme. Nor is there any party that wants to make it more difficult or to remove the possibility of entering basic university qualifications into professional programmes. Two suggestions are on the table. Both have the intention and the clearly stated aim of making admission to higher education easier. Let me be crystal clear about it being simple today. The schools that do not deliver in this regard are misbehaving in my eyes. At the same time, we know that many students find it difficult and complicated purely schematically to get their courses together. The Alliance therefore proposes that the regulatory framework be tightened and that care be taken to give priority to planning so that it is easy for students to make this choice. The choice should be based on whether you want the university qualification here and now or whether you can do without it. It should not be a choice based on practical issues. Instead, the government proposes that the courses should be in the schedule – the students will then be allowed to opt them out of the schedule. It is, of course, a picture and a model that is mentally attractive to many parents who are concerned that their children are opting out of important knowledge. At the same time, however, one should admit: It is not an entirely uncomplicated path that the government has chosen. The result, as the minister of high school also stated at the press conference where this was presented, is that students who opt out of university qualifications simply get hole hours during the day. We know from the government's own investigation Missing! that there is a strong risk of increasing the drop-out rate, especially for those students with the weakest connections. This criticism too chooses the government parties to duck completely and not to answer at all. Even though you stand in this speaker's chair and argue for the importance of coherent school days, you therefore make a proposal that breaks apart and creates hole hours. After all, Madam President, the students are not just going into education. They're actually going to get through it, too. Madam President, I would like The Alliance is proposing an extension of the college model. We propose quality assurance in vocational education and training. We suggest making it easier also in reality for students to choose whether or not they want to have higher education qualifications. This is how we strengthen professional programmes and make them more attractive. In addition, we want to develop apprenticeship training and strengthen study and career guidance. This is about the extremely important task of ensuring that students choose right from the beginning and that they have the right information. There we know there is a major shortage today. But we also need to address what is the main problem, namely that every sixth student is not qualified for upper secondary school at all. Reforms to strengthen the focus on knowledge are therefore of the utmost importance. It is about more teaching time in primary school, diagnostic tests to ensure that no one slips behind and relief for teachers to ensure the clear knowledge mission. But measures are also needed here and now to ensure that pupils who fail comprehensive school are actually given an alternative to moving on into adulthood. Students who do not currently have competence are referred to the introduction programmes, where the results are disappointing and negative. There are those who pass through and receive training from a national programme, but the vast majority step out of the introduction programs without having any form of training with them in their luggage. It is against this background, Madam President, that the Alliance proposes the establishment of a vocational school. Today there are many good vocational training courses in Sweden that make it possible for people to enter the labour market and stand on their own feet, but they are not available to young people. With the vocational school, we offer those who do not qualify for the national upper secondary school programme a simpler vocational training course of two years that can be supplemented with SFI and with comprehensive school courses but who above all have a focus on ensuring that you become employable and can move on in life. Instead of actually offering, as we have done today, nothing while waiting for compux, we can offer these young people a meaningful way forward to their own livelihoods, to adult life and, if they wish, to continue their studies later in life. That is how we build life chances for real, equal for all and not just for a few, Madam President. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I would like to make two points. Of course we are in the Alliance behind all our motions, but I would particularly like to ask for the approval of Amendment No 4. I have one last contribution to make to my colleagues in the majority – soon the opposition: If you want your proposals through, you will have to write better proposals. It is not the task of the opposition to steer through the government's policy, as Magdalena Andersson so creditably stated. I think it would be welcome and successful to give more influence to people in the Social Democrats who focus more on the content and less on the starving rhetoric.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-229	Madam President, I would like Much of what Erik Bengtzboe stands and talks about here in the speaker's chair I agree with – I do. Some analyses are absolutely true. But I have to say this: Erik Bengtzboe and I come from the same county, Sörmland, where Erik is chairman of the Moderates. The Moderates and Social Democrats rule in four out of nine municipalities. I'm used to him being a person you can negotiate with and get along with. That's why I was so shocked when the Moderates under his leadership friend the 180 degrees. I just want to know, why have you changed your mind? Why are you lowering the bill?
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-230	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Caroline Helmersson Olsson, for a straight and clear question, although I do think I answered it in the speaker's chair during my introductory speech! We vote against the bill because we feel that the bill as a whole is not up to date. The changes taken together risk damaging the attractiveness of vocational education and training by fundamentally damaging their interest, but also the result of them. It is therefore about the quality of delivering from them. The government, or at least the Social Democrats, now wants to make the whole issue of how to deal with the basic university qualifications of professional programmes in technical detail. However, the proposal that has been put forward also contains a number of other elements. To demand that higher education qualifications must be introduced at the same time as large hole hours of space are created, while at the same time demanding that the aesthetic subjects be made compulsory for these students as well, while at the same time removing half of high school work creates an unsustainable reform that will damage the interest of professional programmes. The attractiveness of vocational programmes consists in being able to deliver good vocational training. That is what must be the primary focus, and we absolutely also need to make it easier for students to take the step of taking a professional programme by making it easy to obtain higher education qualifications. There's a deal. What we do not agree on is the whole of this. When, without ensuring quality education, we know that the School Inspectorate does not currently review the professional courses in upper secondary school, the labour market relationship is removed as clearly as you choose to do in this bill, when you impose on students a number of mandatory subjects and when you create hole hours for the students – then it does not become a sustainable whole. That is the problem, and that is why we say no.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-235	Madam President, I would like Now it became somewhat clearer to me why the Moderates change from March 7th and say a whole different thing a week later. Now you have read the bill properly, but something I think Erik Bengtzboe has missed was what I said about the high school regulation and the hole hours. For comprehensive school we have previously assumed that there should be no hole hours, and now we do so for upper secondary school. I really think it will be useful, because it has actually been a problem. I've read a survey from SCB on the study interest of high school students. As it is today, three out of four students have been offered the courses required for eligibility, they say. Statskontoret says that the principals, for their part, feel that the planning conditions have become worse after Gy 20 11. Therefore, the government is now saying in the High School Decree that the hole hours should be gone and that it should be coherent days. Why does Erik Bengtzboe think it will be better if we continue to do what we do today? There's evidence for this. The high school inquiry conducted in-depth interviews with both principals, students and all sorts of people. Why did you change your mind in a week? Then why didn't you bring these things into the investigation?
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-239	Madam President, I would like Let me be clear: the Moderates have not changed their minds. The basic university qualifications shall be available to all pupils. That's what the law requires today. If this is not available to the students, it is actually the principal who misbehaves. The present government will allow it to continue, and the present government will stand for it. We want it to be available. We want it to be simple. There should be no practical obstacles to reading it or not. We also want it to be a voluntary, as we said when implementing the reform and as we have said all along. Those who have changed, however, are the government parties, who went to elections to reintroduce the compulsory use of professional courses combined with the preparatory subjects of higher education. It is you who have changed your position, and it is also reasonable for you to explain it to your constituents. We propose strengthening the possibility of making correct decisions from the outset by strengthening study and career guidance. We also propose the extension of the professional college model to ensure quality when more time is given to professional programmes in order to accommodate more courses. The development of inadequate training, which today does not measure up to more hours, is nothing more than an economic waste. All in all, there will be a policy that will ensure with much greater force both that a living person can make correct decisions and that they can obtain the basic higher education qualification if they so wish and ensure that vocational education and training becomes attractive for real and not eroded at the edge, which is an imminent risk with this proposal. Then there is the question of the absence and the hole hours. Why do the Moderates believe that this proposal would lead to more hole hours for the students who opt out? Well, for the simple reason that that is exactly what the High School Minister said when the press conference together with the Prime Minister presented the proposal. It runs counter to government policy and with proven experience in dealing with pupils' absences.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-245	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that the Swedish Democrats are calling for the approval of reservation 3. Today, we're going to discuss upper secondary school. To force those who walk practical lines to enter higher education qualifications and another 50 points in aesthetic subjects is really what we are talking about in concrete terms. The aesthetic subjects are about images, photographic images, dance, theatre and music – nothing I have anything against at all. But if we are really to be pragmatic politicians, let us look at the reality. I was amused, Madam President, by looking at the three categories of the highest unemployment rate at the moment: musicians, cultural workers and behavioural scientists. It is precisely these subjects that we want to add another 50 points. But that is not where we need to add resources. Social Democrat Caroline Helmersson Olsson spoke just before me about the importance of really focusing on important educations such as sheet metal workers, nurses and similar professions. She made the point that it is important that we invest in these training programmes. But last time I looked, Madam President, this is not higher education but upper secondary education. Those who have attended the courses we are talking about can come directly to work and work. Caroline Helmersson Olsson also mentioned subject grades. I have a small question for her if she wants to answer: which party raised it as the first question in the Gymnasie investigation? Think before you answer, because it's recorded. It is unfortunate that the proportion of students studying aesthetic subjects has decreased, you can read in the bill. I am sorry, Madam President. Is it really good Swedish to write like that in a bill? The Swedish democrats do not think so, but we think that research should be behind such things. We simply want to get back the school of knowledge and throw out the flume school. It's time to focus on what's important. Children have studied at least nine years and preschool with aesthetics. Another 50 points are just gibberish. The Swedish Democrats are going the other way. I even think that there is another party in this House that has talked about this. For many years we have been talking about the importance of going back to two-year lines focusing on what you benefit from when you come out and work. You're not supposed to read a lot of topics that don't do you any good. Is it that you want to read on after two years – please! Take a third year, or study those courses later in komvux or otherwise. In Sweden you have every opportunity to read this. What is interesting is that two representatives have spoken about hole hours. I, too, am aware that there are a lot of hole hours in high school. Where does it come from, Madam President? Well, it's not surprising when you take a two-year line and pull it out and do the three-year-old without filling it with important things for the students. Instead, you fill up with fake subjects that you do not benefit from in your profession. Some things students don't need to go to high school to get into work and work. The people who are good at math in here can do an overstatement. Most of those who walk the practical-aesthetic lines come right out into work, and there is a crying need on the market. If 25 per cent of the students, which is the approximate proportion who read these programs, were instead to work for one year, we would get an additional 2 billion in the public purse or the municipal treasury – every year! These are things that we should focus on. The main problem with today's upper secondary school education is not that it should be three years old and pre-school, but that it is a lot of teacherless lessons and hole hours. We discuss political orientation, but students in high school focus on learning things they benefit from in working life. These are the kind of questions we should be looking at. Most of us in this House have been on various visits. On one of these visits we were in Switzerland. In Switzerland, it has been concluded that not everyone wants to become a university student. A Social Democratic person asked the Social Democratic President of Switzerland what they are doing to get more students to go on to college after high school. It is obviously only 25 percent that reads further in S chweiz, and in Sweden it is 43 percent that reads further. The answer of the Socialist President of Switzerland was: Nothing. Not everyone is fit to take a higher education course. Switzerland also had another proposal. In Switzerland, working life in some countries covers almost 70% of the budget for funding higher education. In such a way, you make sure that the education is real, that students read things that they really benefit from in the workplace and that they get to work. There's a direct contact. There is a pressing need for practitioners, and we have an overdrawn account of academics. None of these professions are worse or better than anyone else, but we have to look at what the market looks like. We need to focus on what is really important. If you later in life want to study further, you want to get higher education education education, there are both komvux and folk high schools that happily help. Madam President, I would like The Alliance has proposed three interesting things, namely dizzy kescollege, apprenticeship training and a concentration of SUVs. In this case, Erik Bengtzboe can choose whether he wants to answer or not. I think we mean the same in many things, but we only have different names for them. It is often said, Madam President, that dear children have many names. But why can't we sit down and discuss it? I have proposed it several times in this House. It is so important that we get Swedish school politics in order. It has to be long-term. We will not rhetorically try to win one or another fight in the speaker's chair. I'm speaking directly to you, Erik Bengtzboe. The red-green gang will die soot death on 9 September. I suspect that our side in the other part of the House, and I in the middle of it, will increase. This applies both in the surveys and in the election results. If you're serious, I'll say the following. We live in the same county, Erik. We don't live too far from each other. The door's open. A cup of coffee is offered every day. It's time to drop the corner flag. In this case, I may have been a little mean when I said that soot death, but I think the election results will show which parties are growing and which ones are falling in size. However, no matter who governs the next term of office, there must be a long-term school policy at all levels. I have said it before, and I say it again: I am the first to sit at the table to negotiate. I know I'm not going to get all my suggestions through, but for the schools, the children and the entire education system, we politicians need to stop arguing about certain things. I would like to conclude by saying what Singapore has as its watchword for its students: Bring out the best in every child. That's the best expression I've ever heard. Squeeze the maximum effect out of every little student. That's how we increase the country's competence.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-264	Madam President, I would like Let me first make an observation, with which Stefan Jakobsson can do whatever he wants. It is important to reflect on how to express oneself when it comes to the basic competence for further education and how to get an education system that is connected across the scale. I strongly object to the imageisation that it would be a binary choice, if it suits one as a person to study in higher education or not, if it suits one as a person to enter basic university qualifications or not. My view is that that question must be answered here and now, and that is something that changes over time. That is why it is so important that we do not build any dead ends in the Swedish school system. Anyone who, at the age of 16, wants only vocational training should of course have that opportunity, but that does not mean that the individual is not fit or interested in higher education just because he is not right now. It is important to focus on a policy that is interrelated across the scale. Many of the proposals we have put forward we are pleased to see that as many parties as possible in the Swedish Parliament support. It would be good if we could develop the professional college model so that we can ensure the quality of vocational training. It would be useful to strengthen study and career guidance in particular to ensure that proper information is provided. When it comes to taking a position on political proposals from other parties, it is basically based on the existence of a policy to take a position on. With all due respect to the current government, but coffee meetings and coffee sessions without a political agenda, I am uninterested in with all parties. If you want to discuss politics, you have to put the political proposals on the table and then you can discuss politics.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-269	Madam President, I would like I am addressing the two questions that I understood. It was very moderate policy that was put forward here. I think we are largely in agreement on the issues. We in the Swedish Democrats have tabled the proposals ourselves, and we have presented them at the economic level in such a way that we have proposed them in our budgets. We have set aside money to implement the proposals. But, as I said, dear child has many names. We propose the same things, but perhaps with small changes, a but or a comma to be moved here and there. These are the things I mean we need to discuss. I don't think we can solve the school's problems by me and Erik Bengtzboe sitting down and having a cup of coffee. That's not what I mean. I believe that we are solving the problem by locking up all politicians, as Finland did in 1985, and ensuring that we all agree on a long-term school policy. That was the answer to the last question. I don't think all students here and now are suitable for further reading, but in Sweden there is the world's best adult education. We all have opportunities in life to change direction. I am one of those examples. I have had five different professions, which means that I have studied, studied and studied more, different qualifications to be able to go on in different professional categories. It's a lot about continuing to give students opportunities. I focus a lot on that there should be as few drop-outs in the Swedish school system as possible. These are the things that the Swedish Democrats have focused on. It's a personal crisis to have to step off an education. You may experience a personal economic crisis. At worst, you may take student loans for things that you will never work with. There are far too many unemployed people today in Sweden who have good education, but we have no use for them because they are overdrawn accounts.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-276	Madam President, I would like Swedish school would feel very good from a broader commitment to what is the school's mission. The current government presented a bill a while ago called Collection for the School. It was at least superficial and rhetorical a good attempt to create some kind of broad collection. But if you are to be a little honest and give credit to those who have actually done something, the current government has at least made some valiant attempts to create a broad collection. The school commission it appointed tried to do as unpolitically as possible. Although the president then chose to change course and career and became more political than before, he tried to draw up broad guidelines for Swedish school and for where Swedish school should go. It's important. We can disagree on the details. We can debate the issues we are debating today, but for Swedish parents, teachers and school students it should be clear what is the main focus of Swedish school. Among the best that the school commission delivered was just an overall discussion about overall goals for where Swedish schools go, which one can broadly gather around even if one wants to discuss the details. I hope that, despite the limited time left before the elections, the Council will decide to proceed with the questions and to consider how we implement the questions and take them further. It's a broader job than just putting forward a bill. A basic condition for having broad support for a political line is that parties are reasonably consistent in what they think, at least in the broad outlines. I note that some political parties in this House find it easier than others to change their feet often. Nevertheless, large parts of the Social Democrats have historically been responsible for the issues, and I hope we will see more of it in the next parliamentary term. If it is to be a collection for the school, it should be made wide and not with the support of extreme parties.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-282	Madam President, I would like I agree with Erik Bengtzboe in many ways. It goes without saying that there are things that the current government has done well. The school commission is one of them, but unfortunately the chairman changed his profession and is now doing something else. The high school inquiry is also a good example, parliamentaryly appointed so we can talk about what we think and think. There are subject ratings, which the Swedish democrats pushed from day one, such a thing as party after party then joined. In this way, we may be able to remove the grades for high school students, which I believe is one of the main reasons why we are rushing the poor students to death. At the same time, the government is setting up insane investigations, such as profits in welfare and the Reepalus investigation. It has laid down itself as a wet blanket throughout the school and the establishment as well as the opportunity to offer the diversity that the school should do in all possible ways. A lot of time and energy has also been spent investigating how many school authorities we should have and how we should deal with school authorities in the future. There are 53 school authorities, including all universities. The Swedish Democrats proposed about a year and a half ago a school authority. And we have a lot of countries that we can watch and learn from here. A huge investigation has now been carried out here. We have been told this week that the investigation is being closed, which I believe is one of the best investigations we have ever seen in this House in the field of education, because if you do not know who is in charge, you do not know which direction we are going. I would like to thank Mr Erik for the debates during this parliamentary term and hope that we will come back for four years, but with a greater agreement for the benefit of the school.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-288	Madam President, I would like If something is missing, there are professional people, said one of them that I talked to at the central station some time ago, and I couldn't help but agree. We changed a few words on the matter, and after a while the train came and we parted. I was left with my thoughts on why it is so difficult to recruit students for the vocational programme. I began to reflect on the debates that we had in this House during the two years that I have been part of the Education Committee. What messages have been discussed? Several times I have heard representatives of the bourgeois parties, preferably moderates and liberals, emphasise the importance of having high expectations of the students. I have heard them say that the school has far too low expectations of the students – in the sense that we get the result we can expect. The Liberals' programme from the Knowledge for Competitiveness working group at their country meeting 2017 says: Knowledge and education break barriers, open new paths and strengthen the individual's ability to orient themselves and make independent decisions. The education system should therefore have high expectations for each individual and prioritise knowledge. An equivalent school is a prerequisite for all pupils to have the same opportunity. In the Swedish school system everyone should be able to develop. And the Moderates write: For the Moderates, quality in education remains priority number one. Knowledge, effort and performance must be more important than surnames and residence addresses. This requires a school with a knowledge focus that gives all students good knowledge, no matter what conditions you grow up with. The Moderates should therefore always prioritise reforms for more knowledge. The school should and can enable class trips. It requires higher expectations, more teaching time with skilled teachers and order and order in the classroom. Madam President, I would like This is where I find it difficult to make ends meet, because today you are going to vote down a proposal which involves high expectations of the students and which enables more people to make the class trip and have the same opportunity to gain more knowledge and education in order to understand and analyse. But what you did in Gy 2011 was to lower all expectations of professional students. You halved both the course in Swedish and the course in English, while doubling the score in these subjects on the theoretical lines. You had high expectations of the theoretical students and lower expectations of the professional students. The bottom line is that you widened the gap in knowledge in what I believe the two most important subjects to be able to understand their surroundings and participate in democratic society, Swedish and English. At the same time, you made it difficult and difficult for those students who wanted higher education skills. How do you think we are going to get students to apply for an education where the status is deliberately lowered by politics and where students see that expectations for them are low? As we from the S- and MP government now take you seriously and listen to the criticism that you yourselves had just after the election, you suddenly change. The government is proposing exactly what you proposed, namely professional programmes that generally lead to higher education qualifications but where those students who do not want higher education qualifications, who do not think they need it, can opt out of it. When the government is proposing exactly that and the industries are cheering, you are voting against. How do you feel? Madam President, I would like Today, we are debating the two issues included in this proposal, on the one hand, basic competence in the professional programme and, on the other, a compulsory aesthetic subject in all national programmes. Until 2011, a course in nuclear aesthetics was included in all national programmes in upper secondary school. The Alliance government's motive for removing aesthetic activities as a common subject of high school was that students should be given time for deepening the subjects of character. Aesthetic courses have instead been offered as individual choices and are thus not a topic that gives merit points. Then our high school students are quite smart and opt out of aesthetic subjects, not because they are uninterested in them, but because politics has said that aesthetic topics are of small value and therefore do not give any merit points – read anything else if you want to move forward! A majority of high school students gain less aesthetic knowledge in upper secondary school today than they did in 2011, and that is understandable. In addition, freeing up time for theoretical subjects by removing aesthetic substances was a measure that lacked scientific support. On the contrary, aesthetic subjects contribute to improving learning in other subjects. International comparisons also show that aesthetic subjects have a strong position in the countries that top the education ranking. Research has shown how language development is facilitated in children who receive music lessons at an early age. Early music teaching can stimulate mathematical development. Aesthetics is not a way to gild the world or scatter the brain; it is a way to understand the world and activate the brain. The major Swedish export industries around music and design depend on everyone coming into contact with different cultural expressions and having the opportunity to develop their talents. In an increasing number of professions, including those that are referred to as creative, employees today need aesthetic skills. Many people in their job need to be able to present a service or a product, conceptualize their company's activities or understand different cultural expressions – something that anyone who wrestled with a computer slideshow before a presentation can testify to. All this already knows C and L. They have repeatedly expressed their support for aesthetic subjects in school. But today they choose to ignore improved learning in both language and mathematics and that we also need talent in music and design in the future. I am in favour of the reservation and otherwise of the proposal contained in the report.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-301	Madam President, I would like I stand by the view I have expressed many times before. We have far too low expectations of Swedish schools and our students, and we are looking for excuses instead of finding solutions. Frankly, I think many teachers can agree that we have far too low expectations of our education politicians. There is more to be demanded in terms of both what a government is delivering and what this House is delivering. Madam President, I would like There is something interesting about what Mrs Knutsson mentioned in her speech. When we implemented the secondary school reform, we received criticism that expectations and demands were too high. More subjects had to be approved than before in order to enter vocational training, and this would close the door. Now it sounds like expectations of the students were too low because of the lack of requirements for higher education qualifications. There are two interesting things in this. First of all, the Green Party does not in fact propose that it should be compulsory. If so, why does the Green Party want to deny students this opportunity later in life? In fact, that is where the rhetoric leads. But what I find interesting above all, Madam President, is that this rhetoric testifies to the basic problem that makes vocational education and training not attractive. Why do high expectations in the world of the Green Party and government mean that you should study higher education? Why are they synonymous with each other? Why can you not have high expectations of becoming skilled in your education? Why can you not have high expectations of studying many professional courses, learning a lot and becoming employable? No, high expectations simply mean that you should opt out of the career chosen to study in higher education. It is precisely this idea and attitude that makes vocational education and training have a lower status than they deserve. According to the Green Party, it is apparently to have low expectations when you expect someone to get a good vocational training.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-307	Madam President, I would like Low expectations: If you take away 100 points in Swedish for those who study professional programs and at the same time know, as the research says, that a person needs to have 50,000 words in their vocabulary in order to be able to follow instructions and instructions, be able to read newspapers and follow the news reporting, I think it is downgrading the students. We do not mean that everyone should study at the university, but everyone should have the basic knowledge and competence that they can be part of the social debate, that they can feel that they are not outside and that, if they later in life want, they have the opportunity to continue studying without having to spend an incredible amount of time, energy and finance on entering higher education qualifications. After all, many people have rejected their careers because they do not qualify for higher education. When we discuss that students do not pass or do not finish upper secondary school, we can consider that it is perhaps students who really wanted to study upper secondary school but who felt that they really wanted their higher education skills and who then applied for the social programme, and so he or she was not motivated enough but dropped out.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-310	Madam President, I would like Despite the rhetoric that it would be to deny students the opportunity to take part of a daily newspaper if they do not study more Swedish in high school, the Environmental Party does not want to make it mandatory to read more Swedish. I can't get the logic of your politics together, Elisabet Knutsson. In the way you argue, you should also vote against the proposal that is on the table, because it does not make it mandatory for all students. This is exactly what will be difficult to put together. I have another question for Elisabet Knutsson. Since in her speech she chose to dwell much on the inclusion of aesthetic subjects in high school as an obligatory, I have to ask a question of control. There is no resistance or opinion other than that aesthetic activity is extremely important for learning, especially in the early ages. That's why we put a lot of energy into it, both in preschool and in primary school. We put more energy into this type of activity than we do on, for example, science throughout primary school, to ensure that all students come into contact with aesthetic activities and to ensure that children of early age really get the chance to develop this. I do not really understand the nuances of what Elisabet Knutsson says. It's gonna be so binary. Either something's important, or it's trivial. If something is good, it must be compulsory and absolutely must not be voluntary, because then politics says something is unimportant. That kind of lack of nuances I think makes it difficult to handle this. The specific question I have is that there has been a great deal of criticism from the consultative bodies that half of high school work is being removed in order to make room for this. That's how you choose to get space for the aesthetic activity. So far, I have not heard a single environmental party react to the criticism of the lack of labour market links and the lack of link with higher education resulting from halving secondary work. Instead, one chooses to talk warm for aesthetic activities for six - year - olds, which is not what we are dealing with. Why does one not answer the question of how one views the halved high school work?
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-317	Madam President, I would like It invests a great deal in aesthetic subjects in the early ages and throughout primary school and says that it is important and that it is emphasised. Then the students come to high school and choose an independent extra course in Swedish. Then they get more merit points, but if they choose a stand-alone course in an aesthetic subject they get no merit points at all. Does this not speak clearly about what is valid, what is valuable, and what is of no value? I have to say that I'm surprised, Erik Bengtzboe, that you don't see this connection – that students choose subjects that are important to them so that they can move on in life and give them merit points to move on. There are many different ways of looking at the degree projects. I believe that if secondary school work is put into the subject structure itself, one should certainly be able to do 50 points. There are those who agree. I think it was the University Chancellor's Office that had no views whatsoever on the size of upper secondary school work.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-319	Madam President, I would like It is equally difficult every time to come up in the speaker's seat after Erik, which has nothing to do with his party but with the length he has. Elisabet Knutsson is just like I teach fundamentally and has experience of this since before. Since we both belong to the light upper middle age category, we may be able to recall things that have been implemented within the school system. My question is: Does Elisabet Knutsson remember when we converted the two-year high school into three-year-olds in 1993 and 1994 and what happened? It was so poorly implemented that neither curricula, study plans nor anything came along. All they did was take the two-year training courses that existed and pull them out and make them three-year-olds. Even then we created all the holes that have been incredibly hard to fill since then. Does Elisabet have any thoughts about this?
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-323	Madam President, I would like I do not think we should go into what happened in 1992 and 1993. Time is far too short for that. I think it is important that we look to the future and look at the opportunities that exist for our professional students today. To keep digging into who did what in 1992 I think is farfetched.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-325	Madam President, I would like Man is the only animal that does the same thing over and over again and expects different results, to distort a quote. If we do not learn the lessons of previously poorly implemented reforms, there is a great risk that we will do the same one more time. That's what I wanted to come up with. If we are now to make major reforms in the Swedish school system, as proposed in this bill, they should be well thought out and anchored. We Swedish democrats believe that they are not. I'll get back to what's really important. These are subject ratings, which your colleagues, Elisabet Knutsson, have previously mentioned. There I think the most important thing in the Swedish school system is today. The reason the students drop out is because the only way to change a course grade is to step off the education that you go back and start over on it again. That way you can read the grade. A course rating can never be improved. It's locked. The grade you have, you have to put up with all the way. We belong, as I said, to the category of slightly upper middle-aged. We went into the old high school system where you could switch up as you approach. When you start in grade one as a 16-year-old, you're not quite clear on what you want in life. I myself have had five different professional categories. I am sure that Elisabet also has a similar experience. But we belittle very easily that we have the world's best adult system. We have a komvux that can meet all the requirements we want. If it takes a year to go to high school, it should take a year to go to Komvux as well. It's not that there's a lot of trouble, a lot of moaning and moaning because this happens later in life. We need to take with us a study that has been done. It is that 60 percent of all students who last year chose upper secondary education chose the same thing as their friend. These are the things that still govern our young people. No matter how much we as politicians beep and scream here, we actually need to embrace realities, that is, how students choose today. It can be such a simple factor that makes you choose the wrong program.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-332	Madam President, I would like For once I can say that I agree with Stefan Jakobsson. The subject ratings are a big part that we need to invest in getting through. It can not be reasonable that it should be the worst result that a student does in a subject that should give the grade. Besides, we do not have much in common.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-334	Madam President, I would like We are debating increased opportunities for basic competences in professional programmes and an aesthetic subject in all national programmes. For the Center Party, it is extremely important that training of various kinds leads to jobs. After I have been listening to the start of this debate, my question is: why do the government parties have so much difficulty with freedom of choice? Why is it not possible to make different choices in a way that contributes to the future? Ever since Gy 2011 was implemented, we have given all students the opportunity to choose basic qualifications for professional programmes. Yet it is insinuated in the speaker's chair that the doors were closed and that this possibility did not exist. An aesthetic subject is elective on many high school programmes, but not on everyone, as I am well aware. That doesn't mean it doesn't matter. However, if we are constantly to talk politically about what should be mandatory when going to voluntary high school, I think that you shoot next to the goal, because the most important thing is about how you also get a guide when making your choices. It makes me a little concerned that the majority of the committee is not able to see the elements highlighted by the alliance parties in terms of study and career guidance. That is, of course, the great shortcoming of how we also recruit for the professional programmes. Someone said earlier that you choose as the comrades do. There's a lot in it. You choose what your parents think. There's a lot in it. Has it been said from politics that you close doors and that you do not have future opportunities when choosing the professional programmes, there is probably part of it too. The committee has been pressing for these four years in terms of study and career guidance. It is extremely important that we continue to invest in this part, both in primary and secondary schools. It is clear that all the drop-outs in upper secondary school are worrying in different ways. I think that most parties turn around because you make other choices than the most gender stereotype and that in different ways you break new paths and take new ground, both girls and guys. Then we know that the dropout is unfortunately quite large from the various programmes. Then it is also a question of finding the opportunity for guidance in order to move forward. At home in Skaraborg we have had an exciting project linked to the technical education at upper secondary school, which has been a lot about discussing norms, gender stereotype performances and so on. It's a way to strengthen the quality of both guys and girls who choose outside what might be the usual choices you make. I shall now turn to the report. Caroline Helmersson Olsson said at the beginning of her speech that problems are now being solved in reality and that everyone has been represented. But the fact that everyone has been represented in the Gymnasie investigation does not mean that everyone feels the same. I think it was a good high school that the Alliance government carried out. We from the Center Party have, ever since it was implemented, been pushing that it should be possible for all professional programmes to choose higher education qualifications. We have also highlighted the possibility of choosing what is called specific competences, including on professional programmes, in order to create many options for the future. Why do government parties have so much difficulty with freedom of choice that they want to go in and do something all the time? Let me give some credit to the government. I think it's good to have highlighted the praon as a part. I think that is an important part of creating professional dreams for different people. This brings primary school closer to the surrounding society and future working life. These are important parts to take part in. But, as I said, you need to have an electoral competence. It can be worked on many different subjects, not least when it comes to aesthetic expressions. It has been stated earlier in the debates that these are important and large parts of primary school. However, it is important that guidance on study and vocational guidance is also included. We increased the requirements for all upper secondary school programmes when Gy 2011 was implemented. In the past, three subjects were needed for authorisation. Now there's a lot more. We have increased the demands in many different ways. But we want to continue to have a really good and high quality. What is extremely important in the future in order to create choices and electoral competence, in order for you to really choose your life, is that we have good adult education and many ways forward. We have already highlighted this from the alliance parties when it came to Gy 2011, i.e. that they were given the opportunity and had the right to read in basic eligibility for Komvux. Young people are often rational. You want to know what's going on. That is why I think it is a good thing that today we are sticking to what the Alliance Government was doing in Gy 2011. And we continue to tell everyone who chooses different programmes that all programmes, whether they are university-preparatory or professional programmes, can enter the university's eligibility. So we are continuing with what already exists. Some say that it is a problem that the number of students has decreased. It is clear that speaking of the number of students has the greatest possible effect. But we also know that the proportion is falling, and it is clear that we are all seeing this problem. When we meet company representatives, it emerges that we have skills shortages throughout our society. We need more people available to the needs of the labour market in different ways. Then it is important that we take advantage of every person's opportunities and potential. It already says today, Stefan Jakobsson from the Swedish Democrats, in the Swedish School Act that every student should have the opportunity to develop their full potential. We do not need to go to the other side of the world to look for it, but it is about the way we work on this. Then the teachers' competence is a very important part. But also the opportunity forward for all students is important. Allianollegan Erik Bengtzboe has mentioned the introduction programmes earlier in the debate. They're an important part. We have highlighted from the alliance parties a two-year secondary education – a vocational school. It is important that there are many ways forward. Finally, I would just like to emphasise this as the important part. When it comes to an aesthetically individual choice, I would like to turn to Elisabet Knutsson. It was a discussion about Swedish earlier. From the alliance parties we made study visits to Borås a few years ago and saw how all teachers on all subjects worked in language development. That's what it takes for this to make any difference – not the number of hours in Swedish or in any other subject. It is a question of seeing education and training as a whole. Get rid of the hole hours and so on! It should be seen that teachers' skills contribute in this way. It is therefore important that aesthetic expressions also come into more different subjects. They should not be a small part of it, but should be of fundamental importance. Depending on the structure of vocational education and training and the different elements in which learning can be strengthened in terms of aesthetic expressions, this should of course be included as an important part. Madam President, I would like To go in for landing: We from the Center Party stand by an education that leads to jobs in different ways. That is what we pushed hard for Gy 2011: It should be searchable for everyone to be able to create the education you want. With regard to aesthetic subjects, we find it unfortunate that we want to take time from high school work to put this on the table and that we further go in and circumscribe students' freedom of choice. Instead, give good guidance throughout comprehensive school and throughout upper secondary school so that you can make a balanced choice for the future you are planning for yourself! Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 6.
i-Mh52ZsLRfKtknh9ns2ijub	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ulrika Carlsson in Skövde, for your speech. Like you, I think there should be freedom of choice. Of course everyone should be able to choose. But in school, the only subject that would then be elective and promote the eligibility of the aesthetic subject. What about all the other topics? They're mandatory. Should we make them elective as well? Should you be able to choose math, Swedish and all other subjects? What we want to do is raise aesthetic topics to the level that we think they should have: mandatory and merited. As it is today, the choice of an aesthetic subject means that you spend time on a subject where you do not get any merit points. Is it a fair choice when others can choose other things that give merit points? I don't think it'll be equal. I wonder why you reduced the requirements of Gy 2011 for vocational training in Swedish. I hear Ulrika Carlsson says that all teachers should be Swedish teachers and that the number of hours is not so important. But the 50 hours for the degree project are very important, and not all teachers can have that in their cheetah. But Swedish is the only language in which all teachers can be teachers. I don't think the Swedish teachers are so impressed with it. Entrepreneurs want well-educated students. They want students with a big vocabulary.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-365	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Elisabet Knutsson, for the opportunity to further clarify me if for any reason I was somewhat unclear! The example I tried to give from Borås was about teachers working language development. And yes, it has to do with the language, and many times the Swedish language, to do. But that does not mean that everyone becomes a Swedish teacher. Thank you for that opportunity to be clear! But there is the possibility that all teachers contribute to the 50,000 words if you need in your vocabulary and so on. It is also important that we consider the possibility for students who have language difficulties of different kinds. The best possible support should be given even to those who may never reach the level that Elisabet Knutsson lifts up as so incredibly central. These are important parts. I do not think that we reduced the requirements of Gy in 2011 when we said that three approved subjects are not enough to be approved for upper secondary school without much more being required. When you have access to much more subjects for upper secondary school, you probably also have a broader vocabulary, for example. They have acquired knowledge of much more subjects in this way. Quality can be discussed in many different ways. I would like to stress once again the importance of freedom of choice also in terms of aesthetic expressions. You can't choose all the aesthetic parts but just one of them, which is highlighted in the bill. You can say politically that it should be merit points for that to be nice enough. But if students have a really good study and career guidance and a good career plan, they also understand their own benefits of aesthetic expression, and then they choose such a subject. So let's invest in study and career guidance for real!
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-371	Madam President, I would like I think it's great with language developers. It's fantastic – at the schools that have it, but it's pretty random. Ulrika Carlsson says that the Alliance did not reduce the demands. However, removing 100 points from vocational training and adding 100 points to theoretical subjects has, after all, reduced the demands of those who study vocational education and training. Ulrika Carlsson says that this is important because the requirements have increased and in order to be approved in more subjects. But I know that if a student doesn't have a good language, it doesn't matter how many subjects you're supposed to be approved in. If you don't understand what you're reading, and if you don't understand a reading and what's there because you don't have enough knowledge of Swedish, it doesn't matter if you get more hours in mathematics. You still miss your vocabulary. This actually upsets me a little. Ulrika Carlsson says that you should see for yourself that you need aesthetic topics. You should be able to do that even with mathematics, Swedish and everything. You might realize that it might be good to count and write a little. In that case, these substances should also be eligible.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-375	Madam President, I would like It was an exciting opening that Elisabet Knutsson gave that you could have an even greater choice in upper secondary school. Maybe it could be that way in an extension. Today you can already make many different choices, read different programs remotely and choose to set up your education in different ways. If you are about yourself and around you, there are great opportunities for different forms of freedom of choice already today when it comes to upper secondary school if you use them. I believe, however, that when quality and requirements are raised, it is partly about the quality of primary education, namely the whole of this part and all these subjects that we have largely and in many different ways since the accession of the Alliance Government in 2006 have really lifted the need for. It is important to increase the quality of comprehensive school. But it was also about the fact that the vocational school needed a strengthened quality. It was this whole that the Alliance government saw, and it also highlighted the need for professional programmes to lead to greater proximity to the labour market. It was also when apprenticeship training came in as an important part. Previously, it was called vocational programmes, and today it is called professional programmes. There is an important distinction in between. Further efforts are being made in upper secondary school to improve quality vis-à-vis the labour market. It is important to continue the whole discussion. How do we make it easier to reset? How do we increase labour market mobility so that in many ways we give young people, but also slightly older people, opportunities to make new choices and in different ways find new ways of the future? Sometimes it seems that the steps always end at the university, but there are many other ways you can go to build on your skills. I hope that we will have the opportunity to debate this further.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-380	Madam President, I would like Since you woke me out of my hibernation, Ulrika Carlsson, I had to go forward and replicate. I know that we have about the same background and that we both have knowledge in school. Unfortunately, I do not think that the current school plans, curricula and everything that we should run the school with is particularly good. I think they're based on completely the wrong things-- not on knowledge. When you go through these school plans and curricula, you can read, as you say, that students should exploit their full potential. That might sound good. But if you compare with Singapore, where it says "bring out the best in every child, it separates me continents, and not just because we're on the other side of the world. I chose to go and look at the country that has succeeded best with its students in the last ten years. They are in first place, while we are in place 25, 26, 27 or 28 depending on the survey you are looking at. To sit and navel yourself and not dare to look at other countries I do not think is developing our country. For me, there's an extreme educational difference between students taking advantage of their full potential and we're going to be bringing out the best in every child. So it is the teacher's job to make sure that the student grows. It is the teacher's task to take back the mandate and become a governing, supportive and learning unit. For me as a Swedish Democrat, the choice is very easy if I have to choose between, on the one hand, some caeder education and a governing, clear teachership based on knowledge and, on the other hand, the current flume school. Here, the Center Party itself has to account for where you stand.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-386	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that I was able to wake the Swedish Democrat Stefan Jakobsson out of his hibernation in this House, since these are important issues that we are discussing. To be honest, I don't really see the difference between getting out the best in every child and supporting every student to reach the student's full potential. This is what I read into the Swedish school law. This is what we worked out and that Jan Björklund invited to very early on when the Alliance Government took office in 2006, to be very clear about the importance of the School Act and the importance of us following it up in a good way and giving all children the right to support. This has also been taken up by the current government in a bill that we talked about here not so long ago, which was about every child getting the support that it needs and is entitled to. It's an important part. I strongly oppose the description that we should have a flume school in Sweden. I know there is poor quality in a number of schools, but calling the Swedish school flum makes me sad. I know that there are a lot of skilled principals and teachers, motivated students and so on who in many different ways perform fantastically in the Swedish school today, so don't stand and say that there is some flume school we have! Let us ensure that the school that is not of sufficient quality is given the chance to reverse that trend. The alliance parties have jointly pushed for the possibility of different forms of career services and to ensure that the best teachers face the toughest challenges in many different ways. It is incredibly important that we do this, but I do not think that it helps the school as a whole to develop further in this context. Call the problems that exist instead of pulling everything over like a fluke school, and make sure we start building quality!
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-392	Madam President, I would like In fact, I think I maintain that it's a fluke school. The good principals, teachers and students listed here by the Center Party will survive despite this flume school; it's not about getting support and help from the various things around them. The fact that the Center Party does not see the difference between these two things is perhaps the reason why the Swedish Democrats are 20 – 25 per cent in the surveys and the Center Party of 8 – 10 per cent; I do not know. There may also be other policies that do so. However, I fully agree with one thing: we must ensure that we have an equal school in Sweden. There, the Swedish Democrats have a solution, namely a government headship. We should take this role back. I care about what's around the school. The Swedish democrats completely ignore the form and pedagogy in which the school is run. If it is Montessori, free school, municipal units or cooperatives, I do not care, and I think this is where we in politics have done wrong. We go in and poke in the world of school, and the teachers get politicians hanging over their shoulders. Take back what's around the teachers! Make sure to restore all the staff that the municipalities have laid off – all the SYVs, all the people who work in school health care, all the curators and all the others who are going to do so that the teachers can do their real job. When you are in a normal coffee room today, the headmaster comes in and says, "Oh, I don't have anyone who can have the math this afternoon. The headmaster asks the SO teacher, please take the classes in the afternoon? You are a teacher; even if you do not know mathematics, you may be able to have students in this field. ..................................................... I challenge every person to go into a building house and say the same thing: The electricians have not arrived, so please take hold of this! ..................................................... They should have just laughed at us. We in the teaching profession do so because we are passionate about the children's interests. I believe very much in coming back to the fact that we run the school state. If it does not work, that you get into work or business or to further studies and it does not work, then I fully agree with you that we will appoint a government headmaster who will go in and support and help. That's where we're in complete agreement.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-401	Madam President, I would like It is rarely popular to refer in the debate to its previous profession or to its teaching role, but I still have to do so. I have actually worked for a number of years in the so-called state school before there was a communiqué, and I would not say that the quality was so much better then. After all, I was still employed by the municipality. I don't understand what Stefan Jakobsson is after. It sounds like nationalizing the school would solve a lot of problems. As a centre party, however, I do not see this at all as the solution. Decisions are made close to the business, absolutely with a clear framework. But the best decisions to develop local activities are taken as closely as possible to existing activities. As Stefan Jakobsson mentioned, this may be about independent school leaders and various educational orientations, but I think that there are sufficient resources and that these are distributed in such a way as to be able to create equivalence. A number of Members of this House – but not all of them – remember well what it could look like in many secondary schools in the 70s, with an enormous number of students driving around and rarely attending any lessons. I am surprised when you lift this part from the Swedish school and say that the state school would have been so incredibly good in that way. I think that the Swedish school today is able to see students in a much better way than they did back in time and that you see the whole student. I can agree with what Stefan Jakobsson said about the need for student health staff – one would need to strengthen this part – but to talk about the reinstatement of those who have disappeared I think sounds like a very strange rhetoric. Rather, talk about how to strengthen the future with these skills! We from the Center Party and the rest of the Alliance have highlighted the need for more professional categories, so that teachers can be teachers, in order to be able to invest in a really good quality.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-407	Madam President, I would like The Swedish school certainly needs a great deal of reform in order for us to overcome the problems that we have regarding an equal school and that equivalence has fallen in the Swedish school. In particular, upper secondary school needs a series of changes in order for us to solve the problems created by the school reforms brought about by the Alliance, which led to just less equivalence and less equality in the Swedish school. There are many things to do, and I will not say that the Alliance is solely guilty of what has happened to Swedish school. For example, we would have to change the Swedish upper secondary school so that it goes from a course-shaped upper secondary school to a subject-designed upper secondary school. We would need to have a much greater state responsibility for the Swedish school, especially the upper secondary school. We would also need to have much more clarity as to what programmes exist in the Swedish upper secondary school. But there are also a number of other problems that we need to address. One of these problems is the subject we are dealing with today, namely university qualifications for all programmes in high school. In the past, about half of upper secondary school pupils attended a vocational programme, as has been noted from the speaker's chair before. Since the introduction of Gy 2011, i.e. the new upper secondary school, just under a third is a vocational programme, and unfortunately it is falling. In the first application for the new upper secondary school, the percentage of applicants for vocational programmes had fallen by about 10 per cent. An important part of the change in vocational programmes is that they no longer automatically give basic university qualifications but an active choice on the part of students. Based on the social structure of the various national programmes today, it is easy to note that the national inverse recruitment to the university will increase with the new High School Act. It is also something we have seen happen in recent years. The Left Party wants all students to meet high expectations when they start high school. History shows that high expectations are an important factor in good results. The archaic notion that justified differences between theoretical and practical occupations does not apply to present or future society and the labour market. Good language skills and understanding are important for all citizens of life, as well as for citizens of society and working life. Throughout history, pupils have always responded positively to higher levels of ambition in the education system. High expectations have raised the general level of knowledge and made Sweden a knowledge nation. For several of the vocational programmes, there is also a natural continuation in the form of courses in higher education or polytechnics, including in health care and in various technical programmes. Further studies at university should also be an opportunity for everyone, throughout their lives. This does not mean that the opportunity needs to be exploited by everyone and not that we in politics should force everyone to read further, but the door should be kept open regardless of the choice of upper secondary school programmes that someone makes during his time as a teenager. The possibility currently available to enter higher education qualifications under a vocational programme is a major disadvantage compared to attending a higher education programme. Students on vocational programmes must make use of the individual choice or read an extended programme to read the points required to obtain higher education qualifications. Even if they do, however, they will not be able to compete for many of the places of study in higher education, since many of these courses do not provide merit points. Students are also given less space to study the specific qualifications required for many higher education institutions. Before I leave this and move on to another important area on which we are going to vote here today, I just want to say that I really do not understand why the Alliance has the view of knowledge it has. Why do we want to make such a huge difference between the professional programmes and the so-called theoretical programmes? What is the view that children in vocational programmes do not have? What is it that makes them unable to learn a little better language comprehension and get a simpler way into education if they so desire in the future? I don't understand that. If you link this issue with labour market policy, however, you will understand a little better. This isn't really a big deal about nuances that these students aren't able to read a little more language; it's about you wanting to create a low-wage market. It is about you wanting to cement the differences that exist between these children, from high school to the labour market. We also see this when you vote on other issues relating to the labour market. We all know that a student who attends a vocational programme but does not have the same theoretical qualifications as other students will not receive the same salary either. This is what the companies we have visited and the companies that have visited us in the Riksdag say. That is what the trade union movement says, and so say many others who are critical of the Alliance's position. This also applies to the Swedish Democrats; Stefan Jakobsson may have worked with all the professions that exist on this planet, but in this case – as in many others – Stefan Jakobsson seems to be completely de facto. I also wanted to mention something about aesthetic activities for all students. The Left Party believes it is obvious that all high school students should be allowed to develop and use their imagination and creativity as well as their ability to communicate by participating in aesthetic activities. Knowledge is also needed to access and interpret cultural offerings, to which everyone must be entitled. Cultural awareness and forms of expression are also one of the eight key competences for lifelong learning identified by the EU and supported by Sweden as a Member State. Aesthetics, creativity and artistic expression are also an asset in many professions. Aesthetic activities should therefore be included as a compulsory subject in all national programmes of upper secondary school. Having said that, I would like to endorse reservation No 1.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-422	Madam President, I would like As in my previous line shift, even when it comes to Daniel Riazat, sometimes I don't really know how to put together the logic behind the argumentation. Thus, aesthetic activity is so important that it cannot be allowed to be voluntary. It is far too vital to have access to the fact that you have to read it when you go to vocational training or any upper secondary school programme. On the other hand, it is quite reasonable that the entire university qualification is voluntary – it is not so important that it needs to be compulsory. So in the proposal that you intend to vote in favour of, Daniel Riazat, university qualifications are voluntary, while aesthetic activities must be compulsory. It is apparently so much higher priority than university qualifications. I am not quite able to reconcile the frantic rhetoric with the actual content. Perhaps it is the case that you seek more conflict than there is actually because you think it is fun with loud and frantic rhetoric just in time for an election. Daniel Riazat asked why it is important to obtain higher education qualifications when attending certain programmes but not others, Madam President. The Swedish upper secondary school is divided into two parts. It is not called theoretical programmes and practical programmes, but it is called vocational training and preparatory programmes. The pre-study programmes do not provide professional competence and only lead to higher education. It is therefore self-evident that they must contain university qualifications; anything else would be to deceive those individuals. On the other hand, vocational education leads to a profession, and then you have the opportunity to choose – in the voluntary form of education that upper secondary school actually represents. This concerns highly capable people, but we know that before 2011 there were major drop-outs from education. It was mainly linked to the students' feeling that they were reading too much theoretical subjects. Anyone who thinks that it is a low-wage proletariat that is being trained, I also think we should look at what entry wages you get through vocational training. My question to Daniel Riazat is: if it is a deterrent today because there is too much point, what if everyone on professional programmes is forced to read 2,800 points?
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-428	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Erik Bengtzboe! This is not the first time the Moderates and Erik Bengtzboe have not brought together logic and politics, so I am not at all surprised by the reaction. Erik Bengtzboe mentioned that we would agree that higher education qualifications should be voluntary but not with aesthetic subjects in school. The position of the Left Party is basically that the eligibility for further studies should be part of the upper secondary school and nothing that should be elected or rejected. However, we believe that the government in this investigation, for which I have also been a member of the political reference group, has done a good job. A good proposal has been made that is reasonable on the basis of the situation we have today, and we are proud to support the proposal that has been put forward. When it comes to aesthetic subjects, I'll just say that I can't quite understand – and I'm not the one who owes the answer, but the Alliance and you as representative of the Alliance, Erik Bengtzboe – why the working class should not have to take part in culture. Why does the working class not have the right to take part in and learn more about culture? It is about being able to interpret and communicate through culture. I also don't understand why it has to be that a choice that a youth makes that 15-year-old should influence life chances for the rest of his life. The student may happen to change later in life, which we know can happen; me and Erik Bengtzboe were at that age not very long ago. Why does Erik Bengtzboe want to force young people to stick to a choice they made about 15-year-olds? Why are not all young people and all people worth a chance to change and not have to waste several years of their lives getting back to what they could have done during their regular time in high school? There Erik Bengtzboe is guilty of the answer, not the Left Party or the Government.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-432	Madam President, I would like I must thank Daniel Riazat for being an entertaining debater with whom it has been a pleasure to be able to spend the last four years in this Chamber. I hope that we will continue to do so in the future. I must also thank Daniel Riazat for being at least honest with the intentions of his own party in this regard. The Left Party wants it to be mandatory, and then you say it and run the line in their rhetoric. There are other representatives who stand behind the bill and argue in exactly the same way but refuse to acknowledge that very fact, and I think it is more honest that you actually stand for it. There is a broad agreement in this House, written and unwritten, between virtually all parties – possibly an exception – that we do not want a school system that closes doors. That's why we're expanding komvux so strongly in this country. That is why we are ensuring that there are adult education and the possibility of re-education. This is also why we are expanding the university of applied sciences so that even people with an academic background can choose to go that way. Flexibility must go in several directions. To be honest, Madam President, the rhetoric does not hold that simply because you do not want aesthetic activity to be compulsory, you want to close doors to the working class. On the contrary, we have ten years of compulsory primary school where the aesthetic activities are a large part. Daniel Riazat is still not answering my question. In his main speech, he points out that one of the reasons why students opt out of vocational programmes is that if you choose vocational programmes and want higher education qualifications, you have to read more than 2,500 points. You said you had to have an extended program to get it together. The proposal on the table imposes a 300-point increase on all students in vocational programmes. If students today opt out of the professional programmes because there are too many points compared to attending a pre-study programme, if you force everyone to take 300 points extra, do you not think that many will choose precisely the pre-study programmes just like today?
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-437	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Erik Bengtzboe, for not only being critical but simply doing a little poodle and withdrawing parts of the criticism against me. When it comes to the issue of the number of points at upper secondary school, it should be said that Erik Bengtzboe as well as I know that if there are a number of subjects included in a programme with a certain number of points, there are far fewer who will want to drop out of that programme compared to how many people do not want to have to make an active choice to read more points. We have seen this with regard to other choices in society and other choices within the school system. Not everyone has the option to choose. We also know that it is very different in different municipalities today when it comes to how good the quality of education is. We ensure that it becomes mandatory and that everyone should at least have the opportunity from the start but then can opt it out there will be another system. The most important argument we have on the part of the government and the Left Party is that we have seen this in reality. This has existed in Sweden. We have had a high school where the university qualifications have been available for all programs. We've had a high school where aesthetic subjects have been present. It wasn't a disaster! On the contrary, it strengthened students and society. This gave all students an opportunity to move forward in life in a simpler way. In addition, we had built up a Komvux system that made it easier for those students who still couldn't get approved on all subjects and get on with it. But even that changed the Alliance. It ensured that thousands of people were excluded from the education system and the labour market. That is what we want to counter, and that is what this issue is about. For me, it goes without saying that everyone should have a level playing field.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-441	Mr President, I would like to I can't help but react when Daniel Riazat mentions a few different things here. Daniel Riazat said in a speech earlier that Stefan Jakobsson has obviously worked in all the professions that exist throughout the world. It was some sort of rhetorical trick he was trying to throw at me. Mr President, I would like to I've worked in five different professions. If Daniel Riazat thinks that it is all the professions that exist throughout the world, it says more about Daniel Riazats's perception of reality than about my professional experience. Because I can never imagine that the Left Party, which very hard drives the line that they should be a workers' party, thinks that professional experience and life experience is something negative. Or is it?
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-444	Mr President, I would like to I am here to discuss the high school bill and the report that has been presented and nothing else.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-445	Mr President, I would like to I may well continue on the same subject that I started with, and that is that I have to react when Daniel Riazat says things from the speaker's seat that sound absurd. Daniel Riazat has so far refused to take me in the wake of the debates throughout this parliamentary term because he claims a lot of different things about me. But I have heard it said that all people are born as left-wingers, and then they grow up. Let's see if Daniel Riazat has grown up and dares to take my hand, because we're still human. I don't have a human vision that makes a difference to people. If Daniel Riazat has it, it'll have to stand for him.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-447	Mr President, I would like to I am, as I said, in this House to discuss the issue of university qualifications for all programmes. On this issue, the Swedish Democrats do not believe that all students have sufficient competence to be able to read a little extra language in upper secondary school or that aesthetic subjects are equally important for everyone in our society. That's what I'm here to discuss. If the Swedish Democrats had been interested in debating this issue, I would have liked to have debated it, but now it is about completely other things that I am not interested in. As little as I'm interested in shaking hands with racists.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-448	Mr President, I would like to I should like to begin by thanking Erik Bengtzboe and Ulrika Carlsson for their speeches. I broadly agree with everything they said. It also makes it much easier for me to make this speech, because then I can concentrate on talking about other things. I was going to tell you that I ran the marathon two weeks ago. It was over 40 miles long, it was 30 degrees hot, the sun was roasting and it was pretty hard. I think about when I had run 30 miles and had more than a mile to go. You want to succeed so badly. You're pretty exhausted, you feel your body protesting, you have cramps in your calf, you have fluid deficiency and the system doesn't work. At the same time, one has the impression that soon, or in an hour or so, one can be inside the Stadium and hear the people's exultation. There are friends waiting and water to drink. You really want to succeed. At the same time, you wonder if it's worth it. Is it worth taking it out and running that last hour too? That's what you think. There could be a collapse. It may be that you go into the wall, sheep but for life and never can ever run again and above all not want to run again. Mr President, I would like to When it comes to success, I think we sometimes forget how important it is. It can be small things, and it can be big things. To succeed in the morning in boiling the egg perfectly may seem insignificant, but it still sets the mood for the rest of the day. The opposite, to fail with what you do only in the morning, can also set the mood for the day. Success in something greater has consequences not only for that day but for life. You grow as a human being and as a person. You change your attitude toward yourself as a human being. This is one of the school's most important and difficult balances. How do you distinguish between high expectations and the chance to succeed, but also the risk of not succeeding? How do you make sure to have very high expectations of each student but not so high that the students go into the wall and have to break the race, get cramps in the calf or never want to run again? Expectations should be so high that the students succeed and that they reach the goal, succeed in completing an education and do so successfully. I think it is an incredibly difficult balance that the school must make every day in the classroom but also as a system. How do we ensure that people succeed? To succeed and to feel that you then grow is incredibly important to a person. It is better to succeed in a half-marathon than to fail in an entire marathon. I've done both, I can say. One of the major challenges, Mr President, is that we have 171⁄2% who do not pass primary school. I believe that, precisely with regard to primary school, one cannot conclude that we need to lower expectations and make it easier, but we need to put much more effort into the fact that more people will actually succeed. The answer to how to reduce that 171⁄2 percent is not to remove the grades, lower expectations, lower requirements or remove knowledge content. No, the answer must be previous support, more support, more effective support, more skilled support and more time, because primary school is so very important to succeed in. If you do not succeed in primary school, it will be quite difficult to succeed with something else in terms of education but also to succeed in the labour market. This success I think is quite central to man. The primary school is central because it will lay the foundation for so much else. Upper secondary school is something different. The 17 1⁄2 percent who did not succeed in comprehensive school go on to the introduction programme, and there are very many. Few of them go on to a national program. Few of them get a degree from a national program. Some get it, but quite a few don't get it. There are also quite large withdrawals from the national programmes. Mr President, I would like to It is once again a balance, and it is not quite easy to do. How do we ensure that more people succeed? How do we ensure that people get to optimize their knowledge without risking more drop-outs and fail altogether? If you fail completely, it will also be difficult to move on to the labour market or further studies. The government's response to the challenge is a little strange. When I think nice, I understand the purpose. You want more people to learn more. You want to optimize your knowledge. But if the effects are that more people fail and drop out, that they do not get through upper secondary school, it has had the opposite effect, and in a double sense. It was not only in the way that the students did not reach the knowledge they wanted them to reach; there is also the risk of more dropping out and failing. I really want to warn against such a policy. I do not think that government policy is absolutely crucial in this way; the proposals in the proposal are, after all, rather marginal. But I really want to warn against a policy that leads to more people failing in their education. It will destroy the individual's life chances. But it is also dangerous for the social climate. I think it should be just like today, that basic higher education qualifications – which really does not mean that you can go on any higher education programme, but rather a rather small proportion of higher education programmes – should be available on many courses and be elective on the others. It should also be ensured that it is really practical for those who want to make that choice. It's impossible in many places today. We've seen that in investigations. Perhaps we should focus on ensuring that those high schools that today make it difficult to choose will make it easier? I also think you should think about how more people will succeed in high school. Can we do anything to ensure that those who had difficulties in primary school succeed in high school? The Alliance's answer to this is to ensure that there is a vocational school and more vocational training that people can succeed in and move on from. The answer of the Alliance and Liberals is also to give new opportunities later, to ensure that later on you can read what you did not manage, to make sure you can change the course later and to ensure that you can get further vocational training – either in the company's own direction or in the public domain. We'll make sure you get new chances all the time. However, we will avoid the risk of more failing in high school. It's dangerous if a lot of people fail in high school. I really want to warn against a situation in which many, perhaps especially young men, fail in high school and in entering society and the labour market. It's not good for the social climate. And that's why our focus must be on how as many people as possible will succeed with as much as possible. Where do we find the optimal? I do not want to say that the Liberals or the Alliance have found the optimal. However, we are at least trying to resolve the situation that we have today, with quite a few who do not pass primary school. How will they succeed at least in entering the labour market? Mr President, I would like to Sometimes it's better to manage to run a half-mara and feel the wonderful feeling of getting into the Stadium and becoming bejublad. Sometimes it is better to get a chance to succeed with the half-maran and get a chance to practice further to manage a full marathon at another time, later in life. The most important thing is to get a chance to succeed. Mr President, I would like to With that, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 4.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-466	Mr President, I would like to In my last line change between Christer Nylander and me, a few weeks ago, he asked 16 questions in his first line. I'm not going to expose him to that, but I'm going to ask you some questions that it's possible for Christer Nylander to perceive and answer. I'd like to hold on to this with expectations. When it comes to the Martan, the whole thing can be a marathon, for example, that you get the ride of the Martan. But at best, it's not like that. What makes Christer Nylander think that it brings professional students forward to read fewer points in Swedish than students who go on theoretical programs? Many of the organisations that have been thrilled in and applauded the reform on university qualifications – the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, LO, TCO, Saco and LRF, you name it – want professional students to have a good standard. Christer Nylander about someone who himself works with the language in his free time can understand that you must have a good vocabulary to understand, for example, an instruction. Why do you not want to increase the number of teaching hours in Swedish for professional students?
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-470	Mr President, I would like to I'll answer that very honestly. I think the difference between me and the organisations mentioned by Elisabet Knutsson is that I have a much clearer outsider perspective. Perhaps the best thing would have been that everyone had succeeded with all the courses in high school. You could've put a lot of stuff in them. But that presupposes that everyone succeeds. If, instead, the effect is that more people drop out and fail, I do not think it is good for the labour market. It is not good for the social partners. But above all, it is not good for either society or the individual. If professional programmes are theorised, which are already far too theoretical for many, there is a risk that fewer people will succeed and that more people will end up outside society and the labour market. I don't want to risk that. I want more people to succeed.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-473	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the honest answer, Christer Nylander! What I heard now was that everyone who applies for the professional programmes has less ability to gain knowledge than those who apply for the theoretical programmes. Is it Christer Nylander's honest idea that we should tell them that we have such low expectations of them and that we know that they do not have the capacity to learn more Swedish and English? And that is why we as politicians have lifted that decision from their shoulders and made it easy for them to get through school. Then they can at best read a manual, with a little help.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-475	Mr President, I would like to I have very high thoughts about Elisabet Knutsson. I believe her in good. Therefore, I am very disappointed when she chooses to misinterpret me in that way. One can certainly decide to do so in a political debate. But I don't think Elisabet Knutsson thinks I have that view of man. Elisabet Knutsson really knows that I have a liberal view of man and a rather humanist attitude. The fact that I do not want to introduce more theoretical knowledge into everyone today is due to the fact that some of the programmes have to prepare for higher education studies, and on other programmes it is the idea to move on to a profession. However, if quite a few people drop out of the programmes today and if some do not even get into the national programmes, I have to ask myself how we are going to ensure that more people, overall, will succeed in high school. My conclusion is that it is perhaps better to do as the Alliance has proposed: to ensure that at least some education is successful and that it is possible to move on to the labour market. Training is provided that is close to the demands of the social partners. For example, we have proposed vocational schools, instead of all upper secondary and national programmes being the same. We know that there are quite a few people who do not pass primary school and that there are quite a few who do not pass the national programmes. Moreover, if you do not pass the vocational programmes or the pre-school programmes, it is very difficult to get into the labour market. I'm afraid of a society where many young men and some women feel unsuccessful and outside. I don't want that community. That's why I'm thinking about how more people will succeed. And that's why I think high school needs to be more diversified than it is today.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-479	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by commenting on the current proposal on basic university qualifications in professional programmes. Most of it's said at this place. After all, my alliance colleagues have already given a detailed account of our position. Let me just sum up: it is already possible today to study professional training courses on professional programmes, but it is unfortunate that the government has not been clear about this in its communication. Many of us in the Committee on Education have also been involved in the secondary school inquiry, the aim of which was to increase throughput in upper secondary school. It is not good enough for only 69 percent of our young people to attend upper secondary school for the three - year period. Extending the duration of professional programmes is, of course, a proposal in the opposite direction. We all agree that it is always possible to supplement their education afterwards. Let us help to provide proper and honest information on professional programmes in the future. It's important. Our companies are screaming for professional people. Many people who go to vocational programmes are employed by companies before they even finish their training. Let us not make it more difficult for companies to get the right skilled workforce. The rolling of companies is the foundation of our welfare. Here the Alliance has joint proposals to strengthen vocational college, apprenticeship training and a developed study and career guidance. These are important elements in order to cope with the supply of skills. Mr President, I would like to When it comes to the question of making an aesthetic subject mandatory on all national programmes, the tone has been very excited. We alliance politicians have been called anti-culturalists and we are not interested in education. Then it may have been forgotten that the Alliance brought more culture into school through S hijacking school. We have made sure that students get more hours of history, and we have made efforts to improve the teaching of Swedish. We in the Alliance are happy to see that aesthetic perspectives get more space in school. I am the first to confirm that the development of aesthetic expression enriches both the individual and society at large. I have also seen students cope with theoretical subjects in a much better way if they are also allowed to develop the other hemisphere, i.e. the more creative part. What we in the Alliance are opposed to is that aesthetic subjects must be mandatory on all programmes. In most cases, you can already opt for aesthetic subjects in elective courses. We also object to the fact that the aesthetic subject should be paid with 50 points in upper secondary school work. On the one hand, the government wants everyone to have higher education qualifications while at the same time wanting to cut back on a central part of upper secondary school education, the part that trains students in independent work. Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats believe that the ideal of education must be strengthened in Sweden. The measures to restore the school of knowledge, stimulate reading and create the conditions for a rich cultural life that the Alliance has implemented, and wants to implement, does not mean that people are automatically formed. But the conditions are improving, and that is about as far as political means can be reached. In addition, a more positive view of education is needed throughout society. Classical education – in the sense of learning aimed at breeding the whole human being – is important and character-making. And it is likely to become even more important in a rapidly changing society, characterised by diversity and less predictable. We need to have our own platform of knowledge, an ability to understand and interpret ourselves, others and our time. It is good if many students study aesthetic subjects in high school. However, it does not have to be compulsory on all programmes. In some educations, you can benefit from aesthetic perspectives in other subjects. You cannot define education as what you get on a short course in aesthetic subjects in upper secondary school. What the government proposes is equivalent to about 50 high school hours divided into three years. That's about 17 hours a year. Instead, we think it should be mandatory in some programmes but possible to choose from others. Formation is not created by 45 minutes of picture or music in high school but is a much broader concept. Or rather, education is what we remember when we forget what we have learned. I would therefore like to ask for the approval of reservation 4.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-491	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a small, export-dependent country. We are a rich country, and our prosperity has been built with research and education, with hard work and high skills. Swedish prosperity has been built on our high-tech industry. Perhaps the most obvious example is the steel industry, which has grown up over centuries, closely interwoven with Swedish history – from iron extraction from marshlands to today's high-tech cutting-edge companies struggling on a rock-hard world market, a world market that, in parenthesis, is currently characterized by increasingly harsh winds. The industry currently struggling with beaks and claws on the hard world market is also struggling at home to ensure sustainable production and growth, but also to ensure sustainable supply of skills. It's really nothing new. Ever since the first mountain engineer training saw the light of day in Falun in 1819, it has been an important task for responsible governments to listen to and contribute to companies' skills provision. Today, our important steel industry is represented by organisations such as Svemin, Jernkontoret and Industrial Employers. Their report Twelve Reforms for the G incubation and steel nation Sweden contains very interesting reading. The government doesn't just get good praise. This report does not strike with hair, but it is an honest report that gives the government very good credit for our efforts to strengthen the supply of skills in general and with the upper secondary school's vocational programme in particular. I read before from Twelve Reforms for the Swedish Inheritance and Steel Nation: It was very welcome when the government submitted a proposal in March 2018 for increased access to basic qualifications for professional programmes. It proposed that courses giving basic eligibility for higher education should be included in all national vocational programmes in upper secondary school. ..................................................... However, industry representatives are concerned about what the policy of the Moderates and the Alliance can lead to. I continue to quote: It is worrying that this approach to education policy should not be pursued in the next parliamentary term. ..................................................... Now it is not only Jernkontoret, Industrial Employers and Mines that are upset. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, Visita, LRF, Företagarna, Installörsföretagen, Företagsföretagen, Svensk Handel, Teknikföretagen, Västsvenska Handelsska Chamber of Commerce, LO, TCO, Saco, Handelstjänstersförbund, Kommunal, Sveriges Elevkårer, Sveriges studentråd S vea, Lärarförbundet, The National Association of Teachers – yes, the list can be made much longer on the many organizations in the business sector that are upset. This also applies to trade unions, teachers, principals, professional colleges of various kinds, upper secondary schools, nature schools and students who advocate the Government's proposals and think that the Riksdag should today vote for basic competence in the professional programmes. These are organisations that see that their member companies and members need vocational training that is modern and attractive to students. It is people who know the schools and the labour market. Rarely has a bill had such strong support. The former bourgeois government made many changes to upper secondary school. As Caroline Helmersson Olsson said in her speech: Some were good and some were less good. The good things we want to keep and build on. But what didn't work, we need to be able to change. One of the changes that became really bad and that have had major consequences for society is how the upper secondary school's vocational programme was handled. With the 2011 upper secondary school reform, vocational programmes would no longer lead to basic higher education qualifications. Instead, it was up to each student to choose the courses required for the eligibility. I'm sure the idea was good. It was assumed that the programmes would become more attractive. But the truth was just the opposite. After the bourgeois government's Gy 2011 reform, the number and proportion of pupils in upper secondary school's vocational programme have fallen sharply. We've already heard the numbers. We have gone from half of a grade to about a third. The ambition of Jan Björklund, to make the professional programmes more attractive, can only be called a failure, a failure where the price is paid by our young people, our skills supply and our employers. Young people and parents perceived the change of the bourgeois government as not leading further – perhaps because it proved practically difficult to study the courses required for basic qualifications, perhaps because of the recurring mantra that was constantly repeated that not everyone can become an academic. In any case, the students chose the safe rather than the uncertain. They rejected vocational programmes and went to university-preparatory programmes. This has led to a well-known result: a large shortage of labour in the private sector and in the public sector. Both the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Entrepreneurs' member companies state that they find it very difficult to find workers with the right knowledge and experience. Companies that do not find the skills they need to turn down incoming orders and stop planned expansion. Four out of ten companies are missing out on assignments and expansion due to a lack of skilled labour, and seven out of ten construction companies report the same. I think that is why the government proposal has such strong support from those who know what is needed in the labour market. Mr President, I would like to Total space: Professional programmes need to be more attractive. The main reason that students themselves indicate when opting out of vocational programmes is that they want to have the opportunity to continue studying after high school. With today's changing labour market, this opportunity becomes even more important. The kids know that, and their parents know that. This is also known by the bourgeois politicians in the Swedish Parliament. The Moderates Maria Stockhaus said in Parliament on 7 March this year in a debate on upper secondary school: This means that upper secondary school is unable to deliver skilled young people to the labour market. There is a shortage of skills in many places. Because of the debate that arose when university qualifications for professional programmes were no longer compulsory, many believed that the programmes were some kind of dead end. Now that we have ended up there, we agree with the government that it is right to reinstate higher education qualifications, but with the opportunity for the student to opt out of it. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to I share the Moderate Martial Analysis, and I look forward to hearing more arguments for why this great turnaround, this 180-degree turnaround, has been made by the Moderates. What the government is proposing is precisely to reintroduce higher education qualifications as the norm but with opportunities for students to opt out of it. Mr President, I would like to We are also discussing the subject of aesthetics today. My goal is for the school to be an educational institution. The focus of the school should be on knowledge and education. There should be no doubt about this. All children and all young people should be given good opportunities to achieve high levels of knowledge. But the school should also be a place for education and development. In the proposal on the table of the Riksdag, the Government proposes that an aesthetic subject be introduced into all upper secondary school programmes. This is something that Elisabet Knutsson has argued too eloquently. But I would still like to add a few words. I think that all students should be given the opportunity to meet aesthetic activities. Creating and practical-aesthetic elements of the education need to be included in upper secondary school's broad education assignments. All students need this opportunity. It is important for creativity and education. It is also important in working life. Anyone who has seen a skilled sheet metal worker, pastry chef, carpenter or florist at work knows that aesthetic expression is not a mere artefact, but is deeply rooted in what we call professionalism and craftsmanship. Anyone who follows the debate online knows that education is something we all need in order to be responsible citizens of a democracy and distinguish true from false and factual views. The problem is not that the students leaving our upper secondary schools would be too educated. The problem is not that Sweden would need less education. Sweden needs more education. Mr President, I would like to I put great hope that the Moderates would listen to the business community and the students. Basic qualifications are needed in upper secondary school's vocational programme. The announcement that the Moderates had placed their weight on the policy of the Liberals, which has been tested and failed, has made me angry but also genuinely surprised. There are a number of issues in which we Social Democrats and you Moderates disagree. That's the way it should be. But there are also issues in which our two parties have put aside political tactizing, based on what is right and right to do and taken responsibility together. The question of increased access to basic qualifications in upper secondary school's vocational programmes has been there, until April, and should be one of them. I listened with great attention to Erik Bengtzboes's speech. Perhaps the most important thing was not what was said but what was not said. Where are the arguments for abandoning one's own conviction, one's own position and one's own promises? It is a position that has actually been declared in speeches and writing at countless meetings with applauding entrepreneurs and from this pulpit. When I listened I could note nine different arguments, I got it, as Erik Bengtzboe put forward to say no to the bill. The first argument was that there are too few qualified for upper secondary school. Yes, it is a big problem that we have in Swedish primary school. The government has many proposals for action. A lot of them unfortunately the Moderates say no to in their budget exercise. It's about math lift, reading lift, collaboration for best school and holiday school. The list can be long and is not really the subject of debate today. Perhaps the most important thing is the large resource supplement of 6 billion that the government proposes for comprehensive school education and pupil health. This is hardly an argument for saying no to make professional programmes more attractive. Another argument that Erik Bengtzboe put forward is that the quality needs to be improved in upper secondary school. That is absolutely the case. I'll sign that, too. Here too, the government has proposed quite a lot of efforts, and a lot of them – not all but many – have received support in this House. This is hardly an argument for saying no to this proposal. Upper secondary school work is needed, says Bengtzboe. Yes, we agree with that. I would like to emphasise that high school work is included in the Government's proposal for a bill. I would also like to emphasise that it would have been possible for the opposition to vote in favour of only the aesthetic subject, but no to university qualifications or yes to university qualifications, but no to the aesthetic subject. Another argument is that the general competence is limited. Yes, it is. That is hardly an argument for voting 'no'. Another argument is that the professions resulting from the professional programmes are as fine as academic professions. Yes, absolutely. I really sign it. But that is hardly an argument for voting against the government proposal. One further argument was that there are small differences between the proposals. Be that as it may! But is that an argument for voting against the government proposal? Another argument is that there will be many hole hours. The day breaks apart. Here I can repeat what Caroline Helmersson Olsson told me, namely that there is work going on in the Government Office and that we will shortly be presenting a change in the High School Ordinance that means that a vice-chancellor at upper secondary school will strive for coherent school days. That is a welcome proposal. Then there was a discussion about vocational school. It is also a very interesting discussion that I would like to have with the opposition in a context in which this issue is raised for debate. But this is hardly an argument for saying no to today's bill. But the best argument Erik Bengtzboe put forward was that everyone is dissatisfied with the government proposal. Oh, my God! If you have spent a long life reading propositions, you have rarely seen a bill with such strong support. The word is hardly what makes the comments. No, if Sweden is to be a nation capable of building prosperity on the world market, we need more well-educated and educated nurses, electricians, pipers and welders, not fewer.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-523	Mr President, I would like to The Government used 14 minutes of speaking time to argue why it is so important to have compulsory university qualifications in all upper secondary school programmes. However, the proposal suggests that it should not be mandatory. My simple question is: why does the government not propose that it be compulsory in all secondary school programmes?
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-524	Mr President, I would like to The major problem that lies on the table and makes the bill so welcome, not least by business organisations, is that too few people apply for the professional programmes. An important aim of the bill is to increase the attractiveness of professional programmes, to make them more attractive to seek for many young people. Now that such a large number of studies so clearly show that it has sent a signal to students and parents who are deterring from applying for professional programmes when higher education qualifications are not included in the regular range of subjects, we must listen to it. My whole argument was not about making university qualifications compulsory, it was about university qualifications being included in the programme. Those applying for the programmes must be 100% confident that they will be able to obtain a higher education qualification. However, higher education qualifications should be able to opt out. The reason for this is my conviction that in the Swedish labour market a high school degree is very important. An opportunity to read further is also important. It may be to the university or university of applied sciences for the electrician who wants to acquire more qualifications or the assistant nurse who wants to become a specialist assistant nurse. But they do not have to have this competence right away. It is also possible to ensure a system in which people can obtain a complete upper secondary school degree in life and which also provides the opportunity for those who cannot do it immediately to take it later. We therefore propose that they should be able to opt out of the preparatory subjects of higher education. We are convinced – and we have the support of all business organisations, trade unions, teachers, pupils and representatives of professional programmes – that this is the best way forward if we are to strengthen the attractiveness of professional programmes. That is what the debate is about.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-530	Mr President, I would like to It was a speech about Sweden's global competitiveness and how we rose from the 19th century poverty to the wealth of the 21st century. It was about how we became globally competitive and how important it was to have compulsory basic competence in all secondary education programmes. Then neither the Government nor the bill lands in that it should be mandatory. Finally, the difference will be a Sweden with prosperity, a Sweden with global competitiveness and a Sweden with democracy if you are to choose to or choose from two courses in high school. It is nevertheless to enlarge a rather small difference to a fairly large effect. Mr President, I would like to I did not think I got the answer to the question why the government does not land in having compulsory university qualifications on all programmes. I would like to add another question to this if it were to be the case that I and the critics are right that a more theorising of all secondary programmes would mean a few more dropping out and if a few more do not have a chance to enter the labour market. The basic university qualification only grants eligibility to a few programs at the university. Yet it is important to ensure that everyone gets a more theorized upper secondary programme or strive for it. If this means that more people drop out or fail in high school, that more people do not get into the labour market, that fewer people get the chance to become independent, that fewer people get the chance to support themselves and that more people will feel that they have failed in society: Is the government concerned by such a development?
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-535	Mr President, I would like to I must repeat that this proposal is about strengthening the attractiveness of professional programmes, making them more attractive for young people to apply for. We take very seriously the signals that have come from reality, from young people themselves and from employers, and not least from the side of high school teachers and principals. It is clearly and unequivocally said that the signal that went out with Gy 20 11, that the vocational programmes would not be pre-graduate, has been devastating and very negative for the possibilities of recruiting. We want to give that opportunity. We also want to strengthen professional programmes. The package also contains a proper resource supplement. This is because the government estimates that the professional programmes of this amendment would attract more young people. Christer Nylander asks me if I'm worried about dropping out of high school. Of course I am! Departing from upper secondary school is something that we must jointly ensure is as few as possible. For my part, I am convinced that the drop-out would be less if more students today apply for university-preparatory programmes precisely because they are afraid that their qualifications could be lost on a professional programme. It gives them a good opportunity to get a good job and good opportunities to later study further if they read to the eligibility, which I hope many will do. It provides them with a good opportunity to learn not only on the basis of their profession but also develop in the labour market. Maybe they can work abroad and maybe start their own business. With our professional programmes and greater attractiveness in them, we can open doors for many young people. The answer to the question if I am worried about defection is: Of course! That is why the government spends so much resources on reducing drop-outs and ensuring that young people who want to go to vocational programmes can do so without concern.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-541	Mr President, I would like to Let me just say at the outset that we are going to be able to cope with the skills supply problems, it is basically a matter of ensuring that more people have better prior knowledge of their way into upper secondary school so that they are qualified to go to upper secondary school at all. A lot of figures have been thrown away about how the proportion of pupils attending a vocational programme versus a higher education programme has changed. The big difference is that far more students who do not go to high school at all. That's where the students have disappeared. I noted that the Government read out that the Reading Lift and the Mathematics Lift were efforts to save what the Alliance apparently was against, although it was alliance reforms that the Alliance carried out. Lovskolan, which is also referred to, is something that the Alliance doubles in its proposal for an initiative and certainly does not abolish. Mr President, I would like to All of this must be an expression of the fact that the government's high school policy does not go together. Yeah, everybody's worried about the skills supply. Yes, everyone wants to see increased access to higher education qualifications even in upper secondary school programmes. But the question is whether this is the right way to go. Earlier, before the 2011 upper secondary school reform, the drop-out from vocational programmes was very high. What the students then referred to as the reason why they dropped out was that it was too much theoretical subjects that made them not choose to stay. Over a third of all students who started dropping out at all. The Government refers to the presentation of the proposal in order to increase the attractiveness of education. But it's also about the students getting through, isn't it? The Swedish National Agency for Education boasted a few weeks ago that the proportion of students who pass upper secondary school degrees is increasing. The biggest and strongest increase is taking place precisely in vocational programmes. The students who come in can also get through. If you are to have competent staff who are trained, they should not only come in but they must also get through. When the upper secondary school reform was introduced, the Government notes that there was a signal in which parents felt that the students could not be qualified. Then she speculated on why it could be. Could it be because Socialist ministers have stood in this Chamber and said that vocational training can no longer give university qualifications?
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-549	Mr President, I would like to I think we agree on a lot, Erik Bengtzboe. I think we agree that it is extremely important for as many students as possible to go through comprehensive school and bring with them so much knowledge that they can start a national programme. We are also certain to agree that those who cannot do this will have a good opportunity to go to an introduction program that ensures that they can collect the points and knowledge that enable them to pass on to a national programme. From the government's side, we have implemented a completely new system of professional packages that ensure that those students who attend adult education or go to upper secondary school's career introduction can go out with a professional package with a coherent education that makes them employable and, which is the beauty of the crow song, have the opportunity to come back and supplement later. These are buildable professional packages. We also agree on how important it is to ensure that students go through upper secondary school. We agree that the Mathematical Lift and Reading Lift, large broad stakes, are good bets. It is important to hold two thoughts at the same time. It is possible for me that the Alliance did good things during its time in power at the Ministry of Education. We'll stick to that and build on it. But it is also possible that some mistakes were made. Then you have to face up to those mistakes. That's exactly what the Moderates did until April. You have to admit, that didn't go very well. I think that Erik Bengtzboes's party in March reasoned much more wisely than what Erik Bengtzboes's party is doing today. I am very impressed by the attempts that Erik Bengtzboe still makes to justify the reversal. The hand on the heart, Erik Bengtzboe! You've turned just because you got along with the Liberals. You have no arguments.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-556	Mr President, I would like to I note that the Government does not wish to answer the question. Only a few weeks ago, therefore, the responsible Minister for Higher Education stood in this House and said that vocational education and training in upper secondary school cannot give higher education qualifications. Could it be that you listen and believe in Social Democratic ministers? Could that be the problem that causes students to opt out of these courses even though they actually lead to higher education qualifications if you so wish? Could it be that you don't see the beam in your own eye when you look for chips in others' eyes? It is at least something that I think it would be interesting to hear the Social Democrats deal with self-critically. The Moderates are crystal clear that it should be voluntary to study higher education preparatory subjects in upper secondary school. It shall be accessible to all on professional programmes. As we noted in March, we still note that we really had no problem with a system where it was included from the start in the scheduling. That is something that the Moderates, unlike other parties in this House, would welcome, absolutely – but not in the sad way proposed by the present government. Not at the expense of the students getting hole hours. Not at the expense of a large part of the labour market link being removed from vocational programmes. I think it is an interesting acrobatic exercise that you stand here and say that the hole hours are not a problem. When the responsible minister presented the reform, it was said about the results for those students who opt out of this that yes, then they get hole hours. That is exactly how you reasoned, and that is exactly what you claim. Well, then you'll have to stand up for yourself. I note that the Social Democrats consistently want to misunderstand and do not listen. Perhaps that is why we are once again standing in this House today and losing another bill. The attitude of the Social Democrats towards reaching agreement seems to be that everyone should think like they do. But if you're willing to talk before you run over everyone, you might get your way a little bit more.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-560	Mr President, I would like to The attitude of the Social Democrats and the Government here is that we would have liked to have agreed on the position of the Moderates in March, three months ago. If Erik Bengtzboe wants to call it bullying, it must stand for him. In 2012, the search pressure for professional programmes started to fall, and it fell dramatically – we saw that the search pressure went down by a third. The search pressure has fallen in 2012, 2013 and 2014. To state that it could be attributed to a statement in this House a few weeks ago is, of course, a bit bleak. I would like to emphasise once again that hole hours are not desirable. No human wants a schedule of hole hours. That is precisely why the government is fully in the process of ensuring that the High School Ordinance is supplemented by a provision – which also complements the provision of the School Act – that it is important to pursue coherent school days. The background is, as Erik Bengtzboe is very well aware, that with the order that came in Gy 20 11, many students have found it difficult to choose for university preparatory subjects. It is not just a matter of being unknown or feeling a little insecure; it has also been schematic problems. Sometimes these topics have ended up late in the evenings or early in the morning. For the government, it is important that we ensure that the professional programmes are attractive, that they are perceived as the future programmes that lead to the future professions as they really are. That is why we have listened to a coherent chorus of employers, workers, teachers, pupils, principals, LRFs and nature conservation programmes. What has guided us in this matter is to find a solution that works in real life. I deeply regret whether those arguments, the arguments of reality, do not bite the Alliance's representatives in this House.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-565	Mr President, I would like to I forgot to bring the charger with me, so perhaps for once, Mr President, I do not have to tell you that I have spoken too long. The battery's almost gone, but I'm still going to make a good effort to get it all in. I naturally support the reservations of the Swedish Democrats 1 and 2, which we have called for in the past. We are therefore talking about more new arrivals gaining access to upper secondary school and strengthening the quality of preschools and recreation centres. No one can be against it; that sounds very good. But, Mr President, some things have been crept into the proposal which we Swedish democrats feel we cannot support. One of those things is that you want pre-school managers to be called principals. We can see difficulties in that. Above all, we can see financial difficulties. Even if those who currently work as preschool managers were to receive a little more in salary, those who are first teachers would still have a higher salary than some preschool principals. Here we see an economic difficulty. What's going on in this case? Well, the government obviously pushes over the problem on the municipalities. It is up to them to try to resolve it economically and, if so, to regulate and raise wages from budgets and money that they do not have. It is a bit as usual from the Social Democrats: We think, but someone else should pay. In this case, it's the municipalities that get knocked up. We are opposed to that. We also oppose this because being a preschool manager differs significantly from being a principal. A principal must follow up in a completely different way, in terms of curriculum and legal terms. Being a preschool manager isn't as much of a legal duty. But we don't belittle any pre-school managers. They're doing an amazing job out in the country. We only object to calling them principals. It also wants to introduce an individual study plan that should be in place no later than two months after someone is new arrival. That sounds amazing. It's praiseworthy. But in some schools it is unrealistic. Some schools receive as many children as possible, which means that it is very difficult for them to put this together. Instead of being able to focus on trying to help all children in the best possible way, there will be stress and pressure that they feel. Everyone who lives in Sweden and has come here legally will do what we can to support and help. If you are staying illegally or if you are not supposed to be in this country, if PUT or TUT have expired, you should not stay here. But whoever's here, we're gonna take care of it the best way we can. They say that fast and wrong is never good. That is why we Swedish democrats believe that exemptions should be granted to schools that have received a great many new arrivals so that they can do so. If the two months are not enough, perhaps we can allow it to go one or two more months, because it is more important that the individual study plan is correct than that it is fast and wrong. There is another way to do this, in my opinion and in my colleagues in other committees, and that is to deal with the mess caused by the policy of sick leaves. The immigration policy that has taken place over all these years has, of course, created the chaos that exists in schools now. Let's start by saying, "Okay, let's stop at the borders for a while and take care of the mess the other seven have created. Let's see who gets the responsibility to do it. It is also proposed that the adapted hourly plan to follow the individuals who have received an individual plan be allowed to last indefinitely. The Swedish Democrats do not think so. The Swedish Democrats think that within three years of being new arrivals you must be able to move from an adapted hourly plan to the usual hourly plan. At some point you have to become a part of society, and that responsibility actually lies with the individual. The last thing we talk about is that there should be a study guide in home language. That too is laudable. It's amazing if you can have it. The problem is that, as things stand today, this cannot be offered in all schools. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats think that it should not be a requirement but that it should be to the extent of possibility. If you have the opportunity to offer study guidance in home language, you should do so. If you don't, it shouldn't be a requirement. We will never be able to follow that up. With that I am ready, Mr President, and amazingly enough the battery held.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-577	Mr President, I would like to After all, this proposal contains a number of different elements. I wasn't going to confuse them, but I was going to dwell on each part separately. The report's name is More newly arrived pupils will gain access to upper secondary school and the quality of preschool and recreation centres will be strengthened. It is very important to give more new arrivals the opportunity to gain access to upper secondary school, and I think the government is proposing a number of very good points. When it comes to the possibility of an individual study plan, I do not agree at all with the Swedish Democrats' Stefan Jakobsson that they should reduce the requirements and allow it to take longer. These children need to get this as quickly as possible. To say that you should do so, as far as possible, means that you can pull the whole thing out in a way that does not put the individual's opportunities and rights at the centre. I think it is very important to emphasise the rights of these children to receive the support they need. When you talk about adapted studies, it is about prioritising certain subjects and increasing the time for those subjects. It is very important that this works in a good way. With regard to the second part, the bill on the head of pre-school and post training, I would like to ask, Mr President, for the approval of reservation 1. It is of course important that there is good leadership in preschool, recreation centres, primary and secondary schools. Here is a proposal to change the name of preschool managers to the Vice-Chancellor instead of the preschool manager. It is believed that this would create better conditions in different ways. I don't think so. This is about a well-established name. You're a preschool manager, whether it's a big or a pretty small preschool. There's a ward preschool. To say, then, that you must be called Vice-Chancellor and, in addition, you must have this training, we do not see it as a good proposal, and we therefore call for it to be rejected. We write more about this in the special opinion that is available in the report. For those of you who listen to this debate and want to know a little more about this there is to read on the website.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-583	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by agreeing with what Ulrika Carlsson said about preschool managers. I think it's a mistake that, as the government suggests, everything should be the same in the school system. I think we should have high expectations of preschool, higher than today, but you don't have to rename the boss as principal to get there. This report contains quite a few interesting proposals to ensure that more people succeed in primary school and are eligible for upper secondary school. I would like to see some of what was in the report we discussed earlier: concrete measures that make sure that more people succeed, rather than measures that look best in the debate. Of course, we largely agree with the proposals that are there. I will conclude by saying that I find it sad that Stefan Jakobsson used the rhetoric that he unfortunately often uses. He has a problem with simplification, if you want to use an alliteration. Sweden cannot close the door or the border. We have international conventions which, in any case, I think we should uphold. I think this is important. Since a small country is quite dependent on international cooperation and conventions, a small country should also be careful to comply with them. Then the little country must also be one of those who follow them. I also think that one should try to avoid using concepts such as, if it comes to young people who want to learn more. With this, Mr President, I am in favour of reservation 1.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-589	Mr President, I would like to It is important to ensure that you have the right speech with you when there are three in a row! Today we are discussing a proposal which is, in many parts, welcome. Imagine that you, as a 14-year-old, come to another country after fleeing war and persecution. You will be placed within a few weeks in a school where a language is spoken that does not in any way resemble your own native language. Even if the will, motivation and effort were to exist, it would be almost impossible to meet all the goals set for further education after completing primary education. That is why the proposals in the proposal are very welcome. An individual study plan that takes into account the individual student's prerequisites is absolutely necessary. An adapted hourly plan and study guidance in the native language are also important parts of this. Mr President, I would like to As the bill we are debating today also has the title, and I will devote the rest of my speech to this. There are many of us who have taken part in the so-called Förskolerevolution. Pedagogies in preschool have had enough and are fighting for better conditions. They require smaller groups of children, higher staffing density, time for planning and fewer extra tasks. It's easy to understand their frustration. Children cannot relate to any number of other children and adults if they are to create connections. The teachers also feel inadequate when they do not have time to meet the needs of each child. Today, 60% of the smallest children are in groups larger than the National Agency for Education. We Christian Democrats want a state subsidy to be paid to those municipalities that show that they are working towards or living up to the target of a maximum of twelve children in the groups of young children. Today it is reversed. Only those municipalities with large children's groups receive state subsidies to reduce the size of the groups. Those who already have small groups today will be without money. This would therefore be an incentive money. Mr President, I would like to There are also other ways of tackling this problem. Of course, the pressure on preschools increases when, in several municipalities, all parents and jobseekers are offered full time for their children at preschool, instead of the statutory 15 hours. There is also a lack of alternative forms of childcare. All children are different, like us adults, and some do not fit in large children's groups. We Christian Democrats want parents to be able to find an alternative that suits them and their children. This places great demands on municipalities to offer equal conditions for all approved childcare and pre-school activities, such as day-care centres. It must also be possible for parents who want to be at home with their young children a little longer to be able to do so through a developed childcare allowance. We also want parental insurance to be more flexible. Parents should be free to transfer parental benefit days to each other or to other close relatives, such as grandparents or a bonus father. Parental leave is also to be protected for three years and the right to full-time parental leave is to be extended to three years. Mr President, I would like to Childhood is not reprising, and the most important time for making connections is when the child is between one and three years old. Then children's groups cannot be too large in preschool, and parents should not be forced to give up children prematurely through various pressures. The Christian Democrats' proposal will reduce the pressure on preschool and give more time for children. With this, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 1.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-599	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that my colleagues in the Committee on Education and Training took a relatively short time, because I can prepare you for the fact that my speech is not as short! Today, therefore, we are debating the UbU31 report, more newly arrived pupils are going to gain access to upper secondary school and the quality of preschools and recreation centres are to be strengthened. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all motions to be rejected. This is the last debate of the parliamentary term, and I am pleased to have had the opportunity to do so today. There are a number of good and important proposals for schools, recreation centres and preschools that we have today to consider. I would like to begin my speech by talking about the expectation and sometimes concerns shared by many newly arrived young people. You come as new to a country. You may have an education in your luggage, or you may have had to leave school at an early age or never had the opportunity to go to school. Maybe you were the best in the class and had good grades, or you got into different subjects. The experience that enriches our country may differ. Whatever your experience, you'll have to start over in the new country. Here is the language your perhaps biggest obstacle to reaching your dreams and goals. Based on this, the government has proposed legislative changes in order to exploit the skills, power and will that many people have. It is about giving you the conditions to get a good start on your schooling here in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to In this report we are addressing, among other things, the question of how more new arrivals will gain access to upper secondary school. The survey that was launched in 2017 concluded that newly arrived pupils who begin their schooling in grades 7 to 9 have very limited time to complete their primary education. It is estimated that the short time is likely to be crucial for the low learning outcomes achieved by the students. Both studies and statistics suggest that the more time the newly arrived student gets in Swedish primary school, the easier the student has to meet the knowledge requirements to be achieved in primary school and achieve eligibility for upper secondary school's national programme. The proposal therefore proposes that an individual study plan should be drawn up and that this should be done no later than two months after receipt, as the possibilities for designing the right actions are increased if the study plan is linked to the initial assessment. It is also proposed that these students should be offered instruction according to an adapted hourly plan. In such a course, priority should be given to certain subjects, thereby increasing the teaching time in those particular subjects. Furthermore, it is proposed that pupils should receive study guidance in their mother tongue if it is not clearly unnecessary. These proposals are well balanced and welcome. Overall, these changes will give students better conditions. They will also give the principals long-term opportunities to plan schooling for the students in question. I myself have met students, teachers and study supervisors who testify that support is needed, and these proposals can also ensure that it is equal throughout the country. Here the Swedish Democrats disagree. According to the Swedish Democrats, study guidance in native language should not be offered to newcomers in all schools, even though the Swedish Democrats themselves write that it is both good and necessary. Yet they want it to be voluntary to offer study guidance to newly arrived students. You can ask yourself whether the Swedish Democrats choose to say this by principle or because they are genuinely not interested in giving all children and students the right conditions to reach the knowledge requirements. One can easily get the view that the Swedish Democrats reserve themselves because it is important to stress that new arrivals should not be given a strengthened right to access what is and is necessary to pass their studies. Mr President, I would like to In this report, we are also dealing with the issue of the identification of recreational educators. It is a reform that thousands of recreational educators have been waiting for a long time. The leisure centre is an important educational activity that students are offered up to the age of 13 if their parents are working or studying or if the student has his or her own needs. It is an extremely important activity that we Social Democrats want to improve and develop, because we know what it means for children and their learning, development and leisure time. The leisure centre will stimulate learning and contribute to a meaningful leisure time for all children. After eight years of bourgeois rule and lack of efforts, the government has finally reversed the trend in leisure homes. Half a billion annually is now being invested in reducing children's groups, hiring more staff and strengthening the quality of recreation centres. In addition, for the first time, the recreation centre has received its own chapter in the curriculum, so that equivalence and quality are strengthened and fritis's learning assignments and the skills of the staff are made visible. Happily, the efforts made by the government have contributed to a positive development for the children and for those who work there. As I said, children's groups have now declined for the first time in decades for a few years. But there is still much to develop. One step in the development is that we are now removing the exception in the School Education Act that Jan Björklund introduced. At present, teachers in recreation centres and leisure teachers will need a licence to teach in recreation centres, as well as in school and preschool. For me and for us, this is self-evident. This means that those who have an older degree at university level or equivalent intended for work only in recreation centres will now be able to obtain a licence. This also means that those who now complete a teacher education with a focus on recreation centres can feel confident that society values their competence in leisure education as highly as it values subject knowledge in primary school subjects. Now, in action, we show that fritis is an obvious part of the school system. It is grateful that we share this view with the others. Mr President, I would like to I now come to the part of the report about which there may be the greatest disagreement. It's about whether we're going to strengthen pre-school educational leadership. We have debated preschool many times in this House. Here it is also important that we work towards a common goal: to get a world-class preschool. Preschool is part of our common community building. Today, it is an integral part of the school system. It has been and is a prerequisite for growth, an equal labour market, increased childbirth and lifelong learning. We Social Democrats want to develop and take preschool further into the future. This requires more preschool teachers and child care workers who are given the right conditions to do their job. Investment is needed in better working environment, smaller groups of children and strengthened educational leadership in preschool. Unfortunately, not all parties here in the Swedish Parliament agree. In many preschools the development is moving in the right direction; in other preschools the staff are on their knees. Preschools face challenges linked to inequality, staff shortages and large children's litters. These are the challenges that policy must prioritise and solve. Therefore, the government has also made major investments in preschool. We have, among other things, expanded pre-school education, put forward proposals for a more attractive child care course, revised the preschool curriculum and, unlike the previous government, included pre-school teachers in skills development efforts. The national benchmarks for the size of children's groups that the Alliance government scrapped have been reintroduced, and each year we now invest SEK 830 million to reduce the size of children's groups. This has had an effect. According to the Swedish National Agency for Education's statistics, we now have the smallest groups of children in decades, a higher staff density and an increase in the proportion of employees with a pre-colleague degree. Mr President, I would like to Research shows that preschool quality is closely linked to clear and accessible pedagogical leadership. Therefore, we want pre-school managers to have the same professional title as in other school forms and the same right to attend the State Vice-Chancellor's education. The Swedish Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats do not agree and will therefore today vote against the Government's proposal. They do not think that the person who leads a preschool should have a salary and conditions based on the responsibility it entails. One goes against the Teachers' Association School Leaders and the Swedish School Leaders' Association. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, we can conclude from the Swedish School Inspectorate's reviews that the quality of preschools varies and that it is successful to fulfil the educational mission of preschools and to meet the needs of children. Activities are not sufficiently actively targeted. It can also be seen that there are shortcomings in the management mandate. Some are clearly moving towards national targets, while others are not. We can't have that. According to the preschool curriculum, the Head of Preschool as an educational leader and Head of Preschool Teachers, Nurses and other Preschool staff have overall responsibility for ensuring that the activities are conducted in accordance with the objectives of the curriculum and the mission as a whole. Preschools, as well as other school forms, have goals and regulations. We therefore believe that preschool managers and principals have equal responsibility for their respective activities. The school law's regulation of the respective positions differs only in a few respects. Contrary to what the Liberals, Christian Democrats and the Center Party think, the differences are not large enough to distinguish between the titles of preschool school leaders and other school forms. It is important for us to emphasise that strong educational leadership is as important in preschool as in school and that it is important to strengthen the attractiveness of the professions that are fundamental to the quality of the entire school system. Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats want to take a further step to increase the conditions for educational leadership. Until 2017, only 20 per cent of pre-school managers have completed a vice-chancellor's education, which means that a large proportion of preschool managers have not been able to attend education in areas such as school law, public authority practice, goal and performance management and school leadership. We believe that headmasters of preschool units should be subject to a requirement for a mandatory 30-point post education. This creates an equivalence and guarantees that the headmasters of pre-school units also receive a quality education. We who work to improve Swedish preschool and see it as an integral part of the school system see great benefits in that the education should be as extensive as for the other vice-chancellors. We see it as an advantage with equal professional training together with an equal name. This gives the principals a flexibility in making the best use of school leaders in the preschool and school organisation. This increases the opportunity for the individual vice-chancellor to work at different levels and develop in his/her work. There are of course objections to this proposal from parts of the Alliance together with the Swedish Democrats. I would therefore like to emphasise once again the important role of preschool in the development of children, regardless of their size or the structure of their ownership or operation. We believe that these proposals are necessary to ensure the equivalence and quality of our preschools. It is therefore important that both smaller and larger entities are covered by the same regulatory framework and requirements. In order to facilitate and facilitate the implementation of this by the relevant authorities, the planning and implementation time has been extended from today's four years to five years. I see my speaking time is running out. Unfortunately, however, I cannot help but think that it is typical that this type of argument is being used against pre-school, a woman-dominated activity. Few parties would stand in this Chamber arguing that a senior doctor in a parent-driven care centre should not be able to attend the required training because the activity would then be affected. For me, it is obvious that preschool needs to be developed and that educational leadership needs to be strengthened. It goes without saying that it is necessary to vote in favour of the proposal made by the Government's investigators within the framework of the national collection of teachers' professions, for which both school leaders' associations have worked for a long time. Mr President, I would like to Seeing joy in children's eyes and seeing hope sparkle is exactly what keeps me going. The important task we have here is to ensure that all children, regardless of their background, are given the conditions and opportunities. I think we can do that by stubbornly working for their good. I would like, as this is the last debate, to wish you and all the teachers, children's nurses, principals and preschool teachers a nice and rain-free summer.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-632	Mr President, I would like to I'm gonna try and talk for two minutes so Roza can rig everything up here. In view of the length of the speech, you may need to catch your breath a little. I would like to correct one point raised by the honourable Member. It is important that the Swedish Democrats should be against one thing. We are not at all against study guidance being given in the native language if it is possible to do so. We have a problem. There is a pragmatic reality outside. With regard to those schools that are unable to meet these requirements, I have a specific question. The Social Democrats want to create a law in this case. A law must be followed by consequences if you do not comply with the law. Are we going to punish those schools which are trying to solve everything in panic today, and which are pragmatic and are really trying to do their best, because they are unable to comply with this law? In that case, I wonder what scale of punishment should follow. Is it the School Inspectorate who should follow up on this, or who is it? Here's a big problem. We cannot introduce a law without having thought through the whole proposal all the way. That's one thing. The other thing, which Roza has so exemplaryly talked about, is the recreational educators. It is an under-utilised group that we do not use to the full. At present, an individual leisure teacher may unfortunately have children's groups of between 40 and 50 people. There is no activity. You don't follow the curriculum. You can't be a good teacher at all. It's just storage. We must first ensure that children's groups are reduced. Having said that, I would like to ask one final question. The Swedish Democrats released three proposals on Friday, which we believe are important when it comes to preschool. Among other things, we cannot have staff at school who cannot speak Swedish. Eighty percent of children's languages for the rest of their lives are devoted to children before the age of six. It's a lot of staff who don't have such a good foundation in Swedish that they can talk to the children.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-637	Mr President, I would like to The last question I choose not to answer, because I feel that it concerns other parts. But you cannot have the policy of both that you Swedish democrats are standing here talking about. It should be the case that you should offer study information in your native language only if you can offer it, if there are opportunities. There are various proposals in the bill on how to deal with this issue. You could use remote education, for example. There are some things that we have also worked for in this House. But the problem, which I kind of object to, is about the view of children. It says that you have to be pragmatic and wonder how to solve this. It is clear that one can have respect for the fact that there are difficulties for schools and for the principals to live up to the laws that we pass in the Swedish Parliament. But surely it must be an obligation to comply with the School Act, where all children's right to support based on their needs is an obligation. We can certainly help, but we cannot, from this House, help to treat different children differently just because they have a different origin. If you're new, you've got four years. You have the opportunity to get a study plan that is adapted to ensure support and conditions to be able to manage to access a national programme. We do not make a difference between children in Swedish schools. All children are entitled to support, no matter where they come from, Stefan Jakobsson.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-642	Mr President, I would like to We do not object to that. We're just being pragmatic. This is, of course, something that we want to do as far as possible. There's a huge difference between should and should. To become a law, and a law must be followed by consequences. Mr President, Mr Roza chose not to answer what will happen if he does not meet this requirement. If you are a good teacher or a good principal, you know that the sooner you put in the help, whether it is language difficulties, math difficulties or whatever it may be, the better it is. The earlier the efforts, the better. That's where we're in complete agreement. I am really looking after the child's best interests, but I also see that we have schools that cannot do this. Should they go on a penalty of 500 000 in penalty and have 500 000 kroner less to use to run the business because they do not do this task? We think that is wrong. This is not followed by a scale of punishment at all. They make laws here and still pass the responsibility on to the municipalities. It is a classic social democratic behaviour to be happy to shift all responsibility to the municipalities. They're already on their knees out there. We both live in one municipality. Look at how the municipal budget looks. More and more municipalities are starting to crash economically now depending on what happened in autumn 2015. It's just reading the Society of Today or anything. Are all children to be treated equally? Answer yes. But then we must also start making demands. You should not only have rights when you come here to Sweden but also requirements for what applies. Therefore, some are because certain limits cannot be about any length of time, but actually a certain time limit must be set. We certainly do not agree on many issues, but I think we agree on one thing, namely that everyone in here should have a very nice summer. We'll see who's meeting here again after 9 September. Mr President, I would like to Thank you for these four years!
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-649	Mr President, I would like to I think you should be a little humble when you from the Swedish Democrats stand here and talk about an economic crash for our municipalities when you actually propose budget cuts. You shake your head, but I will remind you that if you come to power, you will cut more than 13 billion for the municipalities. In addition, our municipalities, especially municipalities that need to take part in the tax equalisation system in order to deliver good welfare, will lose money because you think that taxes should be reduced for those who already have. Now it's a rhetorical question. In fact, I forgot to say one thing in my speech. It's about pre-school managers and pre-school principals. In your exercise, it says this: a preschool manager does not have curricula and grades to deal with, to name a few examples. ..................................................... I think it says quite a lot about how much you should listen to the Swedish Democrats when it comes to education policy. It says that preschool managers do not have curricula to relate to. It's usually a shot from the hip. I would say that your policy in this area is completely ill-considered. I very much hope that on 9 September the voters will realise what it would mean for our country if you came to power. The school would be even more segregated. Children from different backgrounds and environments would be separated and stigmatised. Such a society I do not want my children to grow up in, and I will do everything in my power to ensure that it does not.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-654	Mr President, I would like to This is a rather motley report which takes up new arrivals, preschools and friti s. I was going to move around two of the parts and start talking about one of the school's big challenges today. This is how we ensure that those who come to Sweden during their schooling also pass the school in Sweden. The survey requirement introduced in 2016 after an investigation initiated by the Alliance is an important piece of the puzzle in order for newly arrived students to get a good start in school. The new rules on the preparation class also offer better opportunities for newly arrived students to move forward and complete school. Moving forward with requirements for individual study plans aimed at achieving upper secondary school qualifications can also give students better conditions and a more individually adapted study path. However, there are further challenges that are not addressed in this report, and this applies to students who come to Sweden with very limited school background and where it is not realistic that they should pass upper secondary school qualifications within a reasonable time. Other solutions are required for this group. One example of this is the vocational school proposed by the Alliance in other contexts. We Moderates have also proposed that compulsory schooling be reviewed and possibly extended for newly arrived students, since time in Swedish schools is a crucial factor in the possibility of upper secondary school qualifications. Mr President, I would like to In order to ensure that new arrivals receive the support and training they need to enter upper secondary school and further into working life, more tools are needed than those proposed in the report. Study guidance and teachers who have competence in second language learning are some important pieces of the puzzle where more efforts are needed. There are schools where many different languages are spoken and where it is difficult for principals to find native speakers and study supervisors for everyone. There, remote learning and other digital support can be a solution. We Moderates are open to allowing remote learning in more situations than is possible today. We should not put up obstacles without open opportunities and trust that principals and teachers will find the solutions that are best for their students. We have also proposed making second language learning compulsory in teacher training. All teachers will meet students with a different native language, and then they need the right skills to work language development in their subjects. Mr President, I would like to I'm going to spend some time at preschool. The Moderates have for a long time been pushing for pre-school managers to be called principals and that they will also undergo a post education. This means a long-awaited recognition of the skills and responsibilities of preschool and preschool managers. In 2010, several important steps were taken to strengthen pre-school education by making it its own form of school and by highlighting the important role of the preschool teacher and the importance of the pre-school manager for educational development. Preschool is a school form governed by a curriculum, and therefore it should be self-evident with the same name as in other forms of school. Preschools are also about to receive a new curriculum that will further strengthen preschool's role as an integral part of the school system. We know that educational leadership is at least as important in preschool as in school. It lays the foundations for children's lifelong learning. Therefore, a robust and equivalent vice-chancellor training is needed for preschool managers around Sweden. Good educational leadership with the right resources is the key to quality and continued development in preschool. Well-trained headmasters in preschool can contribute to both status enhancement and improved teaching quality.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-667	Mr President, I would like to Once again, I stand in this speaker's chair and have the opportunity to highlight the incredibly important role of preschool in the development of our children. We can see that children who have been at a good and well-functioning preschool perform both in exams done in grade 9. When the School Inspectorate looked at the quality of preschool, they found that many preschools did not live up to the curriculum's goals. Therefore, it is important that preschool staff have good conditions for working pedagogically with the children. A prerequisite is that the person who will lead the business has a good education in the mission they have, and therefore I am surprised when I realize that C, L, KD and SD object to pre-school managers being given the Vice-Chancellor's title. The Vice-Chancellor's title shall follow an education that is uniform across the country. As it is now, every preschool manager must try to read into every small question and sit in his own business and interpret it. After taking part in the Swedish School Inspectorate's evaluation, one can say that it goes like that. This is not because we have preschool managers who do not want to do a good job, but because they do not get the training that allows them to offer an equivalence in their activities. In many other areas, votes for equivalence are being raised, for example in the case of national tests, but in the case of our youngest, this is clearly not so important. The Swedish Democrats point out that it would be expensive for the municipality. Pre-school managers and preschools are apparently to stand down, and we should not strive for equal preschools. Good and successful education and training is one of the cornerstones of a well-functioning and equal preschool. Preschool is one of Sweden's noble marks, something we can rightly be very proud of and that builds the conditions for a good life for many. Let us now also give its leaders, its managers the best conditions! Madam President, I would like Not all students in the Swedish school have had the opportunity to attend preschool. We have a group of newcomers who have come to our country with very different backgrounds, not least in terms of education. From my own experience I know that most of these young people are incredibly motivated to study and go into their studies with everything they have, but nevertheless it is difficult for a student to be eligible for the national programme of upper secondary school within the time the student attends the Swedish primary school. Assimilation nine years in just a few years is not quite feasible. An adapted hourly plan provides the opportunity for more teaching in certain subjects. A strengthened right to study guidance in the native language or the strongest school language increases students' ability to reach upper secondary school eligibility. We know that the chances of getting a job are greatly increased if young people have completed upper secondary education. Sweden needs these young people. Our business community and our country need these talents. It is important that we create the conditions for them to develop, get jobs, gain increased self-esteem and pay taxes in our country. I support the committee's proposal in the report. This is not just my last debate for the term of office. It is also my last debate at all in this House. I would therefore like to thank the President, the staff and all my friends on the Education Committee.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-677	Madam President, I would like I've been to university. It was not a matter of course. In my family there were not many books. We had other nice things on our shelves, such as ornaments and other things, but not so many books. Children's books we had, and sometimes we went to the library. My father usually tells me that he had to read the same children's book to me over and over again — Dumbo, the flying elephant. It was my favorite book. It was about an elephant who had far too big ears. The other elephants teased him, but eventually it turned out that those big ears were what made Dumbo unique. Because he could fly. We had a neighbor who had quite a few books and talked about books with me. That's where I borrowed what I wanted. I usually borrowed Kitty books. At school, we were encouraged to read. My parents could help me with my homework like that until third grade, perhaps a little longer with mathematics, but my parents never stopped caring. They were interested, they asked me what I had learned and they wanted to hear me tell them. I knew they thought school was important. Their support and expectations, along with the fact that I had to grow up in a Sweden where it was important to give all children the same chance, allowed me, a girl from a home without study traditions, to take me all the way to the university. It was a strong society. It was a Sweden with a focus on knowledge and education, on teachers' knowledge and teachers' importance in the classroom and on equivalence. I have said this earlier in the debate in this House, but I repeat today: Sweden has had one of the most equal and high-performance school systems in the world. That's where we have to go again. Of course, it should also be part of our future. For me it is not only a question of education policy commitment for the good of Sweden, but it is also very personal. Madam President, I would like It is with this commitment and those eyes that I take on the Swedish National Audit Office's report on targeted state grants to the school; the government and the committee's assessments and actions based on the report. Behind every state grant is a thought. Targeted state grants to schools have been increasing for a long time. When school is prioritised by politics, it results in reforms. That is fundamentally positive. The state grants are a way for the government and parliament to manage the school and put in place measures where you think it needs to be done more, where municipal and independent principals have not had the opportunity or the opportunity to do what is required. This applies both to this government and to the previous government. The Social Democratic-led government has seen the need to strengthen the results of knowledge, raise teachers' salaries, hire more teachers and other staff at school, reverse the trend with too large children's groups in recreation centres and preschools, and invest in teachers' and principals' skills development and further training. This is why we have done powerful teacher pay lifts, a primary and secondary school initiative, efforts for upper secondary apprenticeships, an extended reading and mathematics lift, enhanced pupil health and special education, introduced compulsory schooling and childcare in the evenings, nights and weekends, and homework for all students. The state again takes a responsibility to ensure that all schools are good schools through the Collaboration for Best School programme. These are really good initiatives that Swedish schools, teachers and students really needed and need. It is about national funding and governance to strengthen knowledge and education, to build security and studyo, and to strengthen equivalence and equality. This is what we can do within the Swedish school system despite the inherent highly segregated market forces of the school system. It is market forces and fragmentation of the school that all the bourgeois parties and Åkesson's Swedish democrats defend with their beaks and claws. It is those who choose unstoppable profit, free establishment and an unfair school choice over equality and equivalence – each time. Madam President, I would like At the same time, it is a problem if there are too many targeted state grants that take time to seek and follow up. That is why we need to continue to strengthen welfare with higher general government subsidies, and we need to continue to choose welfare over tax cuts. It's a matter of course for us Social Democrats, so we do that too. These are basic funding in the form of increased state grants to municipalities and targeted state grants. We believe in our municipalities and their ability to make investments based on their own needs and conditions and because we want to give them long-term expectations. Then it can not be jojo investments in temporary training places or political parties that want to scrap proposals, for example Collaboration for best school or the School Commission's proposal on equivalence money, to instead find less own state subsidies. It is not serious that parties that talk about long-term and seriality in action then scrap major reforms to introduce many smaller ones. I believe that we should listen to professions and research, which show that our school system must be strengthened and governed in order to increase equivalence. Therefore, more government funding and more government governance is needed in targeted state grants. We need that commitment to strengthen that students also from home without study traditions will reach all the way to the university. Each student should be able to discover his own strength within himself, his own Dumbo, the flying elephant. Every student will succeed. Madam President, I would like Increased general state contributions to welfare, together with targeted state subsidies, are both important for the future. In some cases, several smaller state grants need to be baked together into something larger, just as the School Commission suggested. In other cases, the State needs to assume greater overall responsibility for financing. The targeted statesmen need to become more efficient and flexible and reach out to all school leaders in need of them. The Swedish National Audit Office points out, and I have also noted, that the Education Committee has been drawing the attention of governments of different constellations to this since 2013. Today, in this report, a united Committee on Education and Training welcomes the measures taken by the current government to counter shortcomings and increase efficiency and accuracy with targeted state subsidies. The committee welcomes the government's ongoing review of the simplification of state grants and the Swedish National Agency for Education's efforts to simplify the handling of targeted state grants by the principals. A united committee notes and underlines the need to develop the achievement of objectives and follow-up. In this connection, the committee stresses the importance and need of the government's ongoing review of the system of targeted state subsidies. Having said that, it is easy to support the proposal in the UbU32 report. I wish you all a pleasant election summer!
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-692	Madam President, I would like I want to start by apologizing. I stood here a couple of weeks ago in the speaker's chair and said it would be my last debate, but I just got a bloody tooth! I would also like to tell you that under eight I have sung in Parliament. You can do that if there is interest, but it also requires a certain musicality and a little hearing. The alternative is to be tone deaf. As I read the government's response to the Swedish National Audit Office's report, the tone deafness gets a face. I remember a good and ambitious Director-General of the National Agency for Education, now Minister. She complained all the time about all government missions and all targeted state grants. The opposition at that time was usually in tune with high notes. What happened now? Nothing, nada, rien. We politicians are usually good, ambitious and knowledgeable. We'd like to share it with you. But there's a risk that we'll pick up the details. In its budget base for 2018 – 2020, the Swedish National Agency for Education writes that in 2017 it is estimated to handle more than 70 different grants and support that are regulated in more than 50 different regulations and regulatory letters. It's one side. The other side is even more bleak. These are all unsolicited state grants, mostly by small and medium-sized municipalities that have neither the time, resources nor employees to manage the work. There are municipalities that should apply because the state grant would make a big difference. The Swedish National Audit Office writes in its observations that their overall assessment is that the system of targeted state grants cannot be considered appropriate. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, the system is flawed in certain parts regarding the organisational conditions of the principals, the administration around the grants and the structure and financial aspects of the grants. We politicians will arrange frameworks, provide conditions and set goals for a good school activity by rigging the systems to provide the best conditions. We must allow the profession to control its own everyday life more. They can, they want and they have the skills. It applies to everything from schoolwork to principals, principals and teachers. Of all this, there is nothing in the response of the majority. Madam President, I would like Actually, I thought I'd end it with a song. But a couple of colleagues told me yesterday that it's not serious to sing in Parliament, and I don't want to appear unserious, so I read the lines instead. It would really have been the melody to Where have all the flowers go. Where have all the promises gone? We're looking for the answers. There's nothing left. We're looking for the answers. Only a few weeks left we already have the answers. To this, Madam President, I have nothing more to add than to wish Presidents, officials and colleagues a pleasant summer.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-703	Madam President, I would like We have no request but to vote in favour of the committee's proposal on this matter. Targeted state grants to the school are apparently a recurring topic for the National Audit Office. It is only a few years since the last report came on the same subject, and I will take this opportunity to say a few summary words on both reports. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that there is a large amount of targeted state grants – they now make up 6 per cent of what the school's entire activities cost – and that there are problems with the grants. It is clear that they are necessary as the system is designed today, but there are problems with them. One of the problems was raised in the last report from the Swedish National Audit Office, not in the latest report. It is that the principals most in need of a grant may not have the resources to apply for it, whereas larger municipalities and principals, who may not have the same need for this particular grant, may have the resources to apply for the grant. Of course, this causes some contributions to lose their relevance and purpose. Another problem is that the ever-increasing variety of grants makes the whole system consume considerable administrative resources, certainly at state level and definitely at the main level. These resources could, of course, be used more wisely. Instead of basically having a relevant and sensible system for funding schools, today we have a patchwork of various grants. I will say that it is easy to fall into the system of targeted state subsidies. We Swedish democrats have also proposed some such contributions, as the said one knows, so I say so straight away. I bounced when I read in the report that there is a targeted state grant for undocumented students. The Prime Minister has said that those who have been refused their asylum application will leave the country. At the same time, if the Swedish National Audit Office's report is correct, we have a targeted state grant for students who are here illegally. This is totally unacceptable and undermines the credibility of the Prime Minister's words. The Swedish National Audit Office proposes a coherent framework based on socio-economic factors instead of these contributions. Maybe it would be better than today's system. It's worth thinking about. We Swedish democrats have some proposals that could replace the patchwork of various contributions that we have today, at least in part. Digital student money, which follows each student, could replace parts of the targeted state grants. Above all, we propose that the state should take over the school as the principal. Then the state could direct resources more directly and without the patchwork of subsidies that we have today. We believe that it would also create a more equal school. As part of the government taking over as a principal, you could transfer the school's so-called peripheral services, such as school nurses, caretakers and SYV, to the state. It would also create a more equal school in our country. These are, however, issues that the next government will have to address. We will certainly have the opportunity to come back to these questions.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-714	Madam President, I would like With regard to targeted state grants to the school, although we have not written a reservation, I would like to point out, as a centre party, the major problems facing not least the smaller municipalities. There are municipalities that receive a state grant for student health of SEK 600 000 one year, and when they apply for the same grant next year they receive SEK 60 000. It is clear that there will be a twitchy that is not justifiable when it comes to targeted state subsidies. I think it is good that the National Audit Office's report has arrived. We have written nothing but that we from the committee take note of the information that the government has given us linked to the Swedish National Audit Office's report. After all, they have had the opportunity to express their views on this. However, I am surprised that no more has been done on the part of the government. I have listened to the Minister and the other ministers who, in the years that this government has existed, have pointed out that they do not intend to increase targeted state subsidies, but rather see problems with too many different ones. They would come back and do something. Now it says once again that they will come back and tell us how they will work on this. Perhaps I would have liked some more information about the President's own view of the criticism of the so-called jojo initiatives and a statement of what the government intends to do. I am surprised that we do not move from words to deeds. As a center party, one is concerned that hundreds of millions of crowns are not used, for every part of these state grants should make a difference in the Swedish school. Instead of a number of hundred million in one part and a number of hundred million in other parts, it would be far better to have very few general state subsidies and to give the school heads the opportunity to do the development work they should do themselves. After the autumn elections, let us return to another government and do what we can to do about the benefit system so that it does not look like it is now. To go into the wishsome mood that some have been in already in the debate, I should first like to express my regret that we did not have the opportunity to listen to Michael Svensson's beautiful base voice. He could well have sung so that we had heard his beautiful voice, which has been a joy to the Parliamentian over the years. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish the President, my colleagues in the committee and, of course, everyone who works in the Swedish school, all the students and so on a really nice summer vacation. I hope, however, that it will not be rain-free, because given our need for water, I hope that there will be a good balance of sun, rain, heat and what may be needed for us to have the opportunity to draw strength to enter the election movement. I wish all of Sweden's students and teachers a nice summer vacation.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-722	Madam President, I would like This is a matter of both short-term and long-term nature, and I intend to start with the long-term perspective. After the serpent tricked Eva into eating the fruit of knowledge, she comes to the thought of telling Adam to also taste. The interesting thing happens afterwards. Gud is looking for Adam but does not find him, which is strange in itself, and starts crying for Adam. But when Gud finally finds Adam, Adam does something very strange. He points to Eva and says: It was her. It's her fault. She's the one who told me to. Madam President, I would like This is not a contribution to any kind of gender debate. It is not a general political statement on this to take responsibility, but it is a contribution on school management. The same thing arose when the OECD reviewed the Swedish school system and asked who was responsible, when everyone pointed to each other. As Adam pointed out to Eva, everyone involved in the Swedish school system pointed to each other and said: It is she, he, the person or the person responsible. I believe that one of the main problems in Swedish schools is that it is a lack of control and a lack of clarity in who has the main responsibility, and the targeted state grants are in many ways a consequence of this. When municipalities and other principals fail to fulfil their mission, when continuing education and training of teachers have not been carried out and in many other areas more resources have been needed but the municipality has not been able to bear its responsibilities, then the state has paid for state subsidies. Sometimes they have been good and sometimes bad. Sometimes they have been very specific and sometimes more general. But the conclusion of all of this is that the lack of clarity in school governance is increasing.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-727	My conclusion from the report, Madam President, is that it is good that we are examining and following up and that it is bad that money going to school is not spent in school. But above all, it is time for a government headship for Swedish school.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-728	Madam President, I would like The report on the Swedish National Audit Office's report on targeted state grants to schools includes all the current state grants that the education sector can receive. In one word, this can be summed up: many! 34 are listed in today's report. Government grants are given to everything from school libraries to vocational driver training. Each of the targeted state grants usually has a legitimate purpose, but when there are so many it leads to more bureaucracy and less impact for the country's students. I would like to give a few different perspectives on this. As a school politician at national level, where we are, we want to be involved in the development of schools by directing money towards those initiatives that highlight particularly important areas and where we, as political parties, feel that they are most needed – this despite the fact that it is the municipalities and individual owners who run the school. If we ask our municipal politicians, most people want a bag of money that they can direct towards the investments that feel most important based on local conditions. SKL has long pushed the issue of more general than targeted state grants to the school. It is believed that targeted state grants are often accompanied by detailed requirements that can increase costs and impair efficiency. Then there are the small municipalities, which we heard mentioned. I myself come from such a municipality, where you do not have the means or resources to apply for all the state grants available, while the larger municipalities can have a person employed who only applies for different state grants. The follow-up shows that inequalities have increased as a result of targeted state subsidies. The opportunities for the school's principals to run and develop the school locally are decreasing as the state provides detailed state grants for various purposes. Temporary additions also create uncertainty. A municipality that receives a grant for, for example, teacher training but does not know how the funding will look like in the coming years has unclear conditions and therefore more difficult to take responsibility for the school's long-term development. In the coming years, there may be investments in school libraries or some other worthy thing. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office points to shortcomings in the current system and points out, among other things, that the targeted state grants allow the principals to be governed by state grants rather than doing what is really needed. This can lead to many needs that the school really has becoming downpriority. The Swedish National Audit Office also believes that it is wrong that schools have become dependent on targeted grants in order to fulfil the mission for which they have their own responsibility under the Education Act. We now agree that there are shortcomings in the system and that there is much to be done in this area, and it is good that a review is now being carried out so that it is more effective by making both fewer and better adapted contributions. I want to wish everyone a happy and pleasant summer.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-737	Madam President, I would like Our infrastructure is a prerequisite for jobs and growth, sustainable development and the future of our country. It is as important for our companies' deliveries as for each of us to and from work or leisure activities. The central role of infrastructure in our economy and our everyday life places great demands on policy's ability to act and its long-term perspective. That is why the government's failure – the inability to deliver the national infrastructure plan on time – is worrying. After four years of government, Stefan Löfven and his so-called co-operation government have not been able to reach an agreement in such a way that the Riksdag can handle the national plan during this Parliamentary meeting. Nor does the government like to explain why it's late. This is most remarkable. Today's debate is therefore largely characterised by what should have been included but which is not included in today's report. An infrastructure plan of 622.5 billion has been thrown back and forth in Rosenbad's corridors during the current term of office, and then cannot be dealt with by the Swedish people's main representatives. Overall, it is a democratic weakness and a lack of transparency that the letter cannot be processed by this Parliament. At the same time, for the relevant authorities and municipalities, the delay has led to a deterioration in planning conditions and concerns about the future of important projects around the country. A government characterised by disunity and an inability to make important decisions has once again been stuck in the starting blocks. The recent train chaos testifies to what lack of action and an inadequate political vision mean for our infrastructure. When Stefan Löfven took office, it was promised that the trains would roll on time. Four years later, they don't roll at all. Traffic stops, congestion and poor information have led to delays and frustrations and have made people's daily travel difficult. Despite this, the government chooses to duck for the chaos. Instead of tackling the problems here and now, you try the patience of travellers and talk about high-speed trains in 25 years' time as the solution to all the problems, without responding to how they should be financed or what speed they should go at. We Moderates want to expand Swedish railway, preferably for fast trains. But people must be able to trust the railways today. That is why we are increasing the funding for railway maintenance by almost 50 percent and matching each crown that the government spends on the railways. At the same time, we are determined to address the railway's organizational problems, with clearer control of the Swedish Transport Administration, more information for travellers and better planning of maintenance operations so that trains are not cancelled at the last second or travelers are stranded out on the tracks. The situation on our roads is also cause for concern. While passenger car traffic in Sweden is expected to increase by 30 per cent to 2040, Stefan Löfven chooses to underinvest in our roads. The Finnish Transport Agency warns that government policy leads to poorer roads in some places, not least for rural and rural areas. That is not good enough, Madam President. We need good and safe roads throughout Sweden. Many people and businesses lack alternatives. That's why we're putting Moderates on a road network you can trust. We contribute SEK 2 billion more than the government to road maintenance during the next term and a total of SEK 6 billion in the upcoming national plan. But not everything is money. Much is about good governance. The Alliance government prioritised efficiency and increased productivity in the planning of our roads and railways. Today, however, we can see that the regulatory framework is complex and difficult to understand. That is why we want to review the legislation to ensure that every invested tax krona is the maximum benefit. We in the Moderates believe that socio-economic profitability should guide the selection of infrastructure projects. Nevertheless, the Council of Finance Ministers has questioned the social benefits of investment decisions in the area of infrastructure. This doesn't hold. As politicians, we have a responsibility to ensure that every invested tax chandelier is of maximum benefit to our country's citizens. A clarification of the allocation of responsibilities, mandates and tasks is also needed to ensure that the Swedish Transport Administration's work is also carried out in an efficient way to get more infrastructure for the money. To ensure our continued competitiveness and prosperity, distances need to be reduced, not increased. Nevertheless, the government has repeatedly pumped punitive taxes from a distance and increased vehicle, petrol and diesel taxes. It shows a fundamental incomprehension of people's lives outside the big cities of the country, where the car is often the only alternative. The Kilometer tax is one in a series of taxes that increases distances in Sweden. It means higher transport costs, it weakens Sweden's competitiveness and hits hard on jobs and growth, especially in rural areas. The Kilometer tax would only have a marginal impact on the transfer of freight transport to other means of transport, as truck transport is mainly used where no other alternative exists. Rather than focusing on measures that make a difference to Sweden's emissions, Stefan Löfven once again gives way to the Green Party's symbolism policy and the preference for penalising everything that rolls on rubber wheels. Punishing mobility is a rather poor policy for an export-oriented country in the outskirts of northern Europe. This has also been demonstrated by the government's aviation tax. The aviation tax has contributed to the removal of important flights and the necessary accessibility in rural areas. When the government's policy produces results, since it wants people to fly less, Magdalena Andersson and her colleagues complain that a number of localities around the country lose their link to Stockholm and the surrounding world. It's not credible. The conclusion is that the government has given priority to symbolic policies, which, according to experts, have absolutely no environmental impact, at the expense of people and businesses outside our big cities and their opportunities for travel and transport. It is a policy that increases the gap between city and country rather than reducing it. Yet the Green Party is now going to elections to double the airline tax. The flight is needed to hold Sweden together. Therefore, the attitude of the Moderates is crystal clear: if we win the election in the autumn k, the airline tax will be abolished. Instead of chasing travelers, we're going to chase emissions. The financial statement for four years with the government Löfven shows 60 billion in increased taxes and 100 billion in increased expenditure. In fact, no previous government has saved as little in prosperity as the current one. Yet S and MP have failed to provide the resources that our roads need and continued to duck for the train causation. The same inertia and lack of ability to act that have characterised this government on other issues has been evident in their handling of the national plan, which we should actually be debating here today. The fact that the Parliament will not be able to deal with the matter during this term of office is worrying and another black lump in the Minutes for Stefan Löfven. One thing is certain: our roads are getting worse and a railway in chaos cannot afford to wait for the Social Democrats and the Green Party to come to an agreement for another term of office. Stefan Lövven's inaction, inability to prioritise and lack of impact assessment points to the need for a change of government this autumn, not least in order to get Sweden's infrastructure in order and roll back the penal taxes at a distance that this government introduces. Madam President, I would like I support all the reservations with which the Moderates are present, but for time to come, I only support reservation 4 and otherwise refer to our particular opinion.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-760	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 5. In the council report from SNS, where are we going? System errors in transport policy are strongly criticised about how investment decisions in infrastructure are made. The report points out a number of shortcomings, in which tax revenue of tens of billions is wasted due to mispriorities and lack of evidence. The report points to the lack of profitability estimates for projects that are not included in the planned investment plans. We would argue that this means that it is not possible to make relevant comparisons. The Finnish Transport Agency is the authority responsible for carrying out socio-economic assessments of transport investments. However, we note that the work's procedure is strongly criticised in the SNS report, which points out, among other things, that the necessary consequential investments are rarely included and that projects are completed even if there are significant costs during the design process. It also points out how to consistently underestimate costs and exaggerate profits in order to drive through various projects. Madam President, I would like For example, we can look at the high-speed railway which is so debated. The government says it wants to build a high-speed railway between Stockholm and Malmö and between Stockholm and Gothenburg. What impresses me is that the intended price has been reduced from 230 billion, which I think is far too low a cost, to only 205 billion SEK. Of course, 205 billion is better than 230 billion. But is this true? Is it really possible to build a high-speed railway as envisaged for 205 billion? For example, if you look at the last piece between Järna and Stockholm, the cost has not even been calculated. I have heard figures that building it in high-speed rail standards would cost between 70 and 100 billion. When it comes to the last route into Gothenburg and the last route into Malmö, you can wonder how much they will cost. Now we have a small indication that you will build the Gothenburg – Borås section, which can reduce the cost. I think that is very positive. But, what will it cost us if the construction of high-speed railways takes place? Madam President, I would like We Swedish democrats believe that the criticisms in the report should be taken seriously and that one cannot casually wave away the wrong priorities for tens of, or perhaps even hundreds of, billions of dollars. That is why we would like to highlight concrete proposals to overcome system errors. We believe, for example, that the Government and the Riksdag must have a better and more objective basis for decision-making before being bound by potentially unprofitable projects. We can look back in time. On 14 June 2013, Trafikverket presented a national plan for the transport system 2014 – 2025. On 8 April 2014, the Government established the national plan. In this plane was the West Link with, a train tunnel under Gothenburg that will turn upside down, literally, on the whole city for a very long time. Gothenburg is a city built on clay. That's why we have a tram and not a subway. Now a railway is to be built like a subway under the city. It is claimed that it will increase accessibility. The inhabitants of Gothenburg also have a very strong resistance to this construction because of the high cost and minimal benefit. When investing multi-billion dollars, the benefits should be absolutely maximum. Not building a new additional central station in Gothenburg, instead of a train tunnel, is not thought through. Gothenburg is growing and needs good accessibility, which requires a complementary station, where you can change from, for example, a new city track, tram, bus, taxi or maybe even a rental bike, so that you can easily get to different parts of Gothenburg. The west link is ill-considered and should be stopped as soon as possible before billions are wasted on an inefficient railway effort. Madam President, I would like In order to obtain a solid basis for decision-making on which infrastructure projects are most economically viable, it is essential that all projects above a certain size are accounted for and that they can be opposed to each other. The Finnish Transport Agency should therefore be given the task of identifying the most economically profitable investments. Furthermore, the Finnish Transport Administration should be given the task of continuously reporting the results of investments and other measures. We believe that a well-developed order of priority for the most profitable infrastructure investments gives decision-makers a much clearer basis for decision-making than is the case today. We also believe that any deviation from the socio-economic order of priority may be justified, but these should be justified. The cost should be indicated, as should the impact on other projects pushed out of the plan. We also believe that a committee of experts should be set up under, for example, the Ministry of Finance, which decides how socio-economic analyses should be carried out and which input values should be used. This committee of experts will also continuously review the Swedish Transport Administration's socio-economic calculations. With these words, I would like to thank everyone in this House, the Registry, the Committee on Transport and Tourism and all the viewers sitting at home following the debates. I'll see you in the fall again!
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-774	Madam President, I would like In order for people to live, live, work and learn – in short, be able to live a good life – a well-developed infrastructure with access to roads and railways, shipping and aviation as well as a well-functioning IT infrastructure is needed throughout the country. This is part of the construction of society that should be able to meet the needs of a well-functioning passenger, as well as being able to transport goods in a fast, efficient, environmentally friendly and safe way. Madam President, I would like This is a social structure that must function throughout the country – not only during the weekends, when the countryside is to be visited. Speaking in the debate over the last six months, I, as the representative of the Center Party in this debate, find reason to emphasise this very point: transport infrastructure should work throughout the country, throughout the week, year round. I will say something about what this debate would have been about given that the government had made decisions in time. In the autumn of 2016, Anna Johansson, the Minister for Infrastructure, left the Government's proposal to Parliament's chamber. We made a decision about it on Lucia Day 2016. Late in April 2017, four months later, the government finally received its directives to the Swedish Transport Administration, which presented its proposal for a national transport plan on 31 August last year. A consultation work followed on the proposal. Municipalities, regions, industry and others were able to give their views on the proposal for how SEK 700 billion could be allocated to build a better functioning society. So far, though with a little time lag, everything was according to the accepted model. Then it stopped. A government decision on investment in the country's roads and railways was announced in April, in May, and finally came in June. This means, Madam President, that it will not be this Parliament and not this President who will deal with one of the most important decisions of the parliamentary term – and above all one of the most expensive ones. It will only be the next Parliamentary Session that will be given that task. I cannot remind myself, Madam President, that it has happened in the past that a government has sucked so much into making a decision that it has gone over an election campaign. In doing so, it can be noted that the co-operation government of Löfven has shown an extraordinary prudence in its work in developing and deciding on the national plan for 2018 – 2029. The inertia and lack of capacity to act that have characterised so many other areas has also been reflected in the decision on the national transport plan. This cannot be interpreted in any other way than that it is due to either of two things. It may be a lack of respect for the democratic work and the parliament that has given the government a mandate to produce a proposal. This Parliament must not now discuss the concrete proposal either. Alternatively, it is a fear on the part of the government to have its government decision examined in substance by the Riksdag just before an election. I am absolutely convinced that the chairman of the committee, Karin Svensson Smith, or the representative of the Socialist Party, Rikard Larsson, will shortly be presenting the reasons for this slow approach. In concrete terms and here today, Madam President, this means that we will not be able to discuss this until the next Parliament, during the first Parliamentary session of the next parliamentary term. We will then be able to come back to the substance of the national plan in connection with the Parliament's Transport Committee preparing the Government's letter and handling the motions. Madam President, I would like However, we can check one thing already: Karin Svensson Smith and, in particular, Rikard Larsson will certainly mention in their respective speeches that the cooperator has certainly invested SEK 100 billion more than the previous government on the transport infrastructure – SEK 100 billion more! At least in a side line, Mr Larsson will say: this is what we are doing instead of tax cuts. Then, Madam President, we should remember that on both occasions when the alliance government presented infrastructure proposals, 2008 and 2012, the closure of these increased by more than SEK 100 billion per time. At the same time, the tax on people's jobs and pensions was reduced, and the decisions on action in the country's roads and railways were fully funded. Madam President, I would like Furthermore, if we have a good memory, we will remember that last time a Social Democratic government supported by the Green Party and the Left Party was responsible for preparing decisions on a national transport plan must have been at some point in 2004-2005. Then it turned out that the same was underfunded with SEK 60 billion – something that the subsequent government had to deal with. As we in the Committee on Transport have not yet had the opportunity to examine the government decision before this debate, we do not know whether this is the case this time, that is, the decision is seasoned with spring notes. I really hope that's not the case. Madam President, I would like I agree with the claims made by the Centre Party in the report, but for time, I only support reservations 4 and 7. I also agree, of course, with this particular opinion.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-789	Madam President, I would like For time winning, I only agree to reservation 3, but we support all the proposals in which the Liberals are present. Madam President, I would like Today's debate is getting strange. We would have debated the Government's proposal for the National Infrastructure Plan 2018 – 2029, but instead we will deal with a report with only one government letter and motions from the general period of exercise. The latter, I think, is a major flaw in dealing with this proposal; many motions will not be able to be dealt with in a reasonable manner. The motions discussed in the report – the proposals that exist – are rejected with reference to ongoing development and preparation work. What does that work consist of? Madam President, I would like The framework was 622.5 billion plus fees of various kinds. It provides a framework of over 700 billion, to be invested over the next twelve-year period. We are talking about over 700 billion, and we cannot debate the direction of priorities today. That is extremely regrettable. At the same time, we have a debate in the outside world about the train chaos, about trains that do not come on time and about hopes in municipalities and regions, where one sees the need for a variety of initiatives. You want to know. This affects the municipalities, it affects the regions and it affects Sweden and Sweden's growth. I would like to remind you that, when the decision was taken on these EUR 622.5 billion, in December 2016, we had different proposals from the different parties. We in the Liberals would also like to remind you that, for example, we had a framework of 19 billion more for rail investment. The question is, of course, also what will happen in the meantime with the infrastructure that already exists, regardless of the debate on high-speed rail lines planned for 2045. How can the current track function in the best possible way? We should actually debate the long-term plan, because it is an important debate. It is about how we create the conditions for growth and for labour market regions. It is about the opportunity for people to make the important decisions in their lives, about being able to choose where to live and where to work. However, we cannot take a position on these priorities because we do not have the letter. It was not decided in time. It was due on 9 May, but the government did not care about the timetable. That is remarkable, Madam President, and it is also a question of democracy and the rules of democracy. It is an amazing disregard that the letter is not there. I would also like to recall what the Government itself wrote in its proposal in December 2016 regarding the process, namely that the Government intends to return in writing to the Riksdag in the spring of 2018. However, this has not happened. The committee has planned its work on this basis, and the national plan determines and affects investments over the next twelve-year period. My question to the government parties, to which I hope we will receive an answer today, is why it looks as it does. Why could the letter not be delivered in time for our work? Madam President, I would like I have now spoken of my disappointment at the process itself – that we cannot have a debate on important priorities, about the democratic deficit and about the fact that we cannot discuss choices and priorities. However, Madam President, I would like to point out some of the reservations contained in this report, as well as some of the concerns expressed by the Liberals. I would also like to mention some of the motions that have never been dealt with. On many points it is clear that road and rail planning must be made more efficient. There are time gains to make and money to save, and it is therefore important that work on streamlining the planning system continues. Physical and market conditions change over time, but the need for smart planning persists. The regulatory framework for the strategic and economic planning of roads and railways is complex and difficult to understand, partly because it has been established at different times and has been applied for a variety of purposes. There is an urgent need to streamline the planning system and to continue this work. In this connection, I would also like to emphasise what we in the Liberals have often said from the floor, namely the four-step principle. What is the four-step principle about? Well, it is an environmental and economic management principle that aims to analyse existing problems and needs. The four-step principle involves first examining whether it is possible to solve the problem in a way that reduces or optimises the need for transport. If this is not possible, the other steps will be taken: to make use of existing transport options, to implement less improvement measures and, ultimately, to invest in new investments and conversion measures. Sometimes the end result can be a combination of several steps. Many people tend to mention that this four-step principle is important, and it would have been important to explain how this principle has been taken into account in the Government's forthcoming proposals. Derogations and deviations from this principle must be justified and accounted for. How has the government taken the four-step principle into account? It's unclear. The Parliament has decided on the overall transport policy objective, which is to ensure a socially efficient and sustainable transport supply system for citizens and businesses throughout the country. In order to meet the overall transport policy objective, socio-economic viability should guide the selection of infrastructure projects. We need a good basis for decision-making. We need transparency and the opportunity to follow up on important investments. The socio-economic calculations also provide a good opportunity to compare different infrastructure objects with each other. That's how we'd like it to be. Larger planned infrastructure projects could also be subject to a second opinion, i.e. allowing an external party to carry out a socio-economic analysis so that cost monitoring can be carried out to assess whether the initial budget and planning have been followed. Madam President, I would like In such a debate, however, I would also like to remind you of other debates that we have had, such as how important it is how funds are allocated and followed up. There is a great deal to be desired, for example, with regard to bicycle measures. The regulations have gradually been amended and the urban environment agreements used differently from what was originally intended. Transparency would be very important here, so that investments can be followed up and that what was meant to be done can be followed up. The follow-up lacks transparency and clarity. We also want this to apply to bicycle measures just like everything else. Madam President, I would like During the general exercise period 2017 we in the Liberals submitted many different types of motion proposals regarding infrastructure issues. Many of these will now be postponed until the next Parliamentary Session, after the elections. These included more efficient transport in order to ensure the competitiveness of companies, secure jobs and secure growth in Sweden, and local and regional infrastructure investments that should be more closely interlinked and implemented in dialogue, so that we make national infrastructure connections really good. We have put forward proposals on cross-border traffic. We have put forward proposals on the importance of an equal transport system, the co-planning of infrastructure and housing and the monitoring of technological developments in the area of infrastructure. We have also put forward proposals regarding funding and to examine which funding options could be possible and possible. Madam President, I would like In the field of infrastructure, competence, innovation and confidence in the future are needed. It is necessary to have the courage to look ahead and see what is the technology of the future. We in the Liberals believe that the investments will benefit the whole country. Infrastructure is needed all over the country, and it is about different types of investment. People and goods will arrive. Sometimes the way is the best solution, and sometimes it is possible to meet challenges and find opportunities through the railways. We in the Liberals want to see a mobility plan that shifts focus: How should we move from A to B, and how should we do it in a climate-smart way? It has been important for us in the formulation of our proposals. This is also an issue that affects where you can live and work. Where are you supposed to work? How does it affect the family? Communications must work in order for this to be possible. We believe that we must see both passenger transport and freight transport and put them in focus. Both are about being able to develop Sweden's growth. We need to take action and not wait and hope that at some point around 2045, despite the lack of funding, any high-speed routes will solve today's challenges. We must act here and now. Madam President, I would like I hope that we will have a new government that has new opportunities to make wise decisions for a better infrastructure that increases Sweden's opportunities in terms of both growth and choice. Finally, I would like to thank the secretariat of the Committee on Transport and Tourism and the members of the Committee for their very fruitful and intensive work. Moreover, we in the Liberals always end by saying: Freedom is choice.
i-FWeNs7iQirDTaBKZSG3kjK	Madam President, I would like The debate today is about infrastructure issues, but in a more limited form because the government is late with its letter on the national transport infrastructure plan for the period 2018 – 2029. We also discuss the Swedish National Audit Office's report on road and rail investments in Sweden. Madam President, I would like The committee has not yet taken note of the government's letter, and the Parliament cannot therefore consider this letter – because of the delay and negligence of the government parties. Therefore, some important infrastructure projects in the national plan will only be dealt with after the elections, during the next term of office. This is regrettable. Important infrastructure measures and financing issues are being pushed forward, with the risk of some projects being delayed and increased. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office believes that Sweden is at risk of not achieving the targets to be met by 2030. This applies, for example, to two EU targets that have not yet been met, namely to be able to run freight trains of at least 740 metres length on the entire core network and that the so-called line speed of freight trains should be at least 100 kilometres per hour on the core network. In the Government's priority list of maintenance and new investments for longer and heavier freight trains and measures for longer and heavier freight trains, these investments will be launched – possibly – only after 2024. With this, Sweden's industry and all export-dependent companies lose out on more efficient freight transport. The Christian Democrats have actively worked to enable heavier and longer freight trains to travel on the railways. Today we have freight trains at 650 metres. In Germany they have 830 metres, and in other European countries they have up to 750 metres of freight trains. It is about time that we made it possible for freight trains of 750 metres in Sweden as well. This would lead to more environmentally friendly, safer and efficient freight transport and help to strengthen, among other things, the competitiveness of the forest industry. Madam President, I would like We in the Alliance believe that the government's choice of infrastructure projects to be implemented should be evaluated from a socio-economic perspective. We also believe that all major planned infrastructure projects should be subject to a second opinion, i.e. that an external party carries out a socio-economic analysis, and that cost monitoring should be carried out to assess compliance with the initial budget. Madam President, I would like Government parties have not yet decided on the speed at which the new main routes should be driven – whether it should be 250 kilometres per hour or 320 kilometres per hour. At the same time, the construction of parts of the new main tracks will begin during the planning period 2018– 2029. It is important that the government decides on the form of financing and speed, so that the construction of the new main rail lines can start. The largest project proposed by Sweden is undoubtedly new main rails for high-speed trains with speeds up to 320 kilometres per hour. This is a proposal that the Christian Democrats welcome. The Christian Democrats see great benefits from high-speed rail. This would mean shorter travel times, new housing around the station and a densification of labour market regions. At the same time, it would free up opportunities for more freight on the existing railways. Madam President, I would like In order to create good conditions for regional development in the Stockholm region and to reduce traffic in the inner city, it is important that the road project Eastern connection, from Ropsten in the north to Nacka in the south, is built to create a complete ring road around Stockholm. It is regrettable that the government has not provided funds for this issue either and does not have a definite plan to build this ring road, which would divert vehicle traffic from Stockholm's inner city. Madam President, I would like During the midsummer weekend in 2016, a serious accident occurred on the motorway bridge in Södertälje. As a result, the bridge had to be shut down for 59 days — almost all summer. This led to very high costs, and both freight and passenger traffic were affected. The motorway bridge is the only connection over Södertälje canal for two of the country's largest roads, E4 and E20. Södertälje is approaching 100,000 inhabitants and is a hub for freight transport in Sweden, with port, rail and motorway. Södertälje is also the headquarters of some of our most important companies, such as Astra and Scania. Madam President, I would like As part of the Stockholm bypass project, the national plan proposes a capacity increase of the motorway bridge with three lanes in each direction. The proposal extends the existing bridge. The Christian Democrats suggest that the possibilities for a new, long-term secure connection south across Södertälje Canal – either a new bridge or a tunnel – be investigated. Madam President, I would like In the Alliance, we believe that on many points it is clear that road and rail planning needs to be made more efficient. We also believe that there are still time gains to make and money to save, and we are therefore keen that work on streamlining the planning system continues. We therefore believe that legislation on more efficient road and rail planning should be evaluated in order to increase the efficiency and productivity of investment. Madam President, I would like It is regrettable that the government has shown a great deal of slowness in its work in developing and deciding the national plan for 2018 – 2029. According to the Government's own bill list, a letter following the decision on a national plan should have been submitted to the Riksdag on 9 May this year. This had enabled the matter to be dealt with in the Riksdag in the spring of 2018. Madam President, I would like Only on 4 June, at the end of its term of office, was the government able to present the national plan. We can note that it is still unclear when the announced letter to Parliament on the national plan for 2018 – 2029 will be submitted. This means that the handling of the letter in Parliament will have to be postponed for preparation until the next parliamentary term, and some important infrastructure measures and funding issues may be delayed and therefore more expensive. Madam President, I would like I am in favour of Amendment No 1 and I refer to the Alliance-wide special opinion.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-837	Madam President, I would like I was going to take the liberty of having a slightly longer time horizon for my speech. It is almost 20 years since I was in this speaker's seat for the first time, and I was going to look at the infrastructure not only on the basis of the report before us but also on a different basis. For the sake of safety, I support the proposal in the report and reject all motions. I wanted to mention a few things that I think we did well in 1998-2006. At the time it was a collaboration between the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party, and it affected the infrastructure in Sweden quite a lot. That is when we changed the whole work on road safety. Until 1997, the construction of four-lane motorways would save lives on the roads. That's what it was all about, end of story. Many motorways were built, but if the purpose was to prevent people from dying in traffic, it was very successful to gather around a zero vision. We did, and there were many of us. It was politicians, it was trade associations, trade unions, haulage companies and others who decided that it is not okay for people to die in road traffic. We also redesigned the whole infrastructure policy so that instead of the four-lane motorways, there were quite a few two-plus-one roads with centre wire and speed cameras. Initially, there were great protests. People were very unhappy, because it was difficult to drive over and could not drive as fast as before. But we gradually grazed milestones after milestones. We have not come all the way, and of course we should not be satisfied. You can't be as long as someone dies on the roads at all. But it is a fact that Sweden, compared to other countries, is probably the safest country in the world when it comes to travelling on the road calculated per vehicle kilometre. I believe that the zero vision approach where politics and society outside parliament and government work together is effective, and I am very pleased that I was able to participate in it. It also allowed the infrastructure bill put forward at the time to increase the framework for rail investment from EUR 39 billion to EUR 101 1⁄2 billion. Yeah, that's why we have the City Line now. It's inaugurated. Norway – Vänerlinken and the freight yard in Mjölby would not have existed if we had not increased the framework in this way. It means a lot to the people who use the railways, and you realise that this is perhaps the way to do it if you are to lay the foundations for a sustainable transport system. On this one can read more in a publication, a debate book on the railways, published at that time. It's called at the end of the road? and published in 2003 and explains why we did it this way. It was the Banverket and the Railway Forum that published it. Part of this was that the railway is not just for viewing, but that the train traffic is the central and the starting point. Therefore 4 1⁄2 billion for rolling stock was included, i.e. a government grant that when SL, Västtrafik and Skånetrafiken bought new trains, they got half of the investment paid for by the state. It was a way of showing that the policy understands that the railways are for rail traffic, point-end. I am also very pleased to have contributed to this. Then came a fourth thing. In addition to the zero vision, the increase in rail investment and the contribution to the purchase of trains in regional traffic, I was involved in deciding on congestion charges. It was also very unpopular before it was implemented. I remember an interpellation debate when Bosse Ringholm would receive 15 interpellers to have the opportunity to explain itself. Everyone was very angry at Bosse Ringholm. I thought I'd stand up and discuss with Bosse Ringholm, because maybe we could help each other and have some different arguments. I wondered then: if you use a market economy when you discuss cars that stand still and have parking fees to regulate the lack of space available so that you can plan the traffic, why can you not use the same mechanism when the cars move? I guess it's a kind of market economy, too. I rarely hear anyone talking about tearing up congestion charges here in Stockholm. I think that we need to think more in such terms and have more charges in order for traffic to flow better. Then came the period between 2006 and 2014. What did we get? Well, we got a very good investigation-- I agree. It was the FFF investigation. It took the initiative of the then government. It contained many proposals, but none of them were implemented during the eight years of alliance rule. However, we can now review the proposals and see that we have implemented more than half of the proposals under this government. Some examples are the urban environment agreements and the change of fuel. There are very many of these proposals that the Red-Green Cooperation Government has implemented. Actually, that's what needs to be done. It is local that you know how people move and how to plan the city so that bikes and public transport become the base of people's movement. It differs and is very different in different municipalities. Therefore, urban environment agreements are a way of talking about the state providing assistance to those municipalities that, in cooperation with their residents, find solutions that suit the place where they live instead of having a model that should fit all municipalities. I believe that the urban environment agreements have come to stay. The change of fuel has received quite little attention, but it is one way of saying that we are very short of time. If we are ever to reach the advanced climate targets that we have decided here in Parliament at minus 70% by 2030, we cannot wait for everyone to change cars, but we must also change fuel in the vehicles that are already rolling. This also applies to buses and lorries. Gradually reducing the involvement of fossil fuels in the reduction obligation and increasing the share of renewable fuels is something that, in addition to biogas and electrification, is absolutely essential for Sweden to be able to meet its commitments. This government has done so, certainly in cooperation with the other side, but it is a little bit the responsibility of the government to take initiatives, and so has the government. Then we get over to things we may not have done. I am very pleased with the urban environment agreements, the change of fuel and a lot more that I could list. But I must say that I find it a bit sad that the initiative on the construction of Sweden, the Swedish negotiation, did not come to an end. But it's also an acceptance that it's a point when you do such big things that you have a lot of people with you. I hope we have the opportunity to show that Sweden is serious about its commitment and that Sweden will become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare nations. Then we must have an alternative to flight. Flying is and remains a very energy-intensive way of moving. If we are to expect people to renounce it sufficiently to achieve climate targets, there must also be rapid and reliable train connections. That's why I thought I'd tie this up by saying that maybe it's time for a zero vision again. It is not acceptable for people to sit and wait at the station when the train does not arrive, that the evacuation is delayed and that the railway is not working properly. Of course, I am pleased that we have allocated more money to railway maintenance and that we have realised that having very many different actors on the tracks is not a good idea but that we have to take back responsibility for maintenance, but more is needed for trains to go on time. In this regard, an organisation representing public transport operators, where I was previously chairman, the Traveller Forum, has produced a publication called A Lift for the Railroad. In it there are many suggestions that explain what a zero vision for train trouble can be. I hope it will be implemented. This is my last speech. It has been a privilege to represent citizens of Sweden and to stand in this pulpit. I feel very humble about the task that I have shouldered these years. I am also very grateful for the work done by the Bureau of the Transport Committee. And I am very pleased with the cooperation we have had in committee. Despite our differences of opinion, there have been constructive discussions. Together, we have achieved a great deal of sense.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-853	Madam President, I would like Karin Svensson Smith has described the history and important achievements. But I could not interpret from the speech why we cannot debate today and eventually decide on the really long plan, for twelve years to come. It forms the basis for very many infrastructure decisions, which are important for everyone in this House, but also for our municipalities and regions and ultimately for the citizens. My question to Karin Svensson Smith is: why did the letter not come in time, so that we could have a democratic process on it and debate important priorities? In this way, they are also told out there what the Riksdag thinks about the various issues. It's incredibly important for the future.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-855	Madam President, I would like I am chairman of Parliament's Transport Committee, and I have had a very good cooperation with the government. However, to explain exactly why the plan did not come on time in this context does not seem to me to be a matter of business.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-856	Madam President, I would like It is a great pity that we could not have a debate about what we had planned and thought. The committee has adapted its work in order to deal with the letter. I would also like to remind you that many individual Members have made many suggestions as to how they feel that the infrastructure in Sweden should be developed. It has also been done by parties through party and committee movements. Madam President, I would like In the future, it is important that these processes are seen as so important that we all help to highlight the importance of carrying out the planning that has been done. There is also a democratic perspective on this. It is a great pity that we cannot debate what we had in mind. I am convinced that everyone in this House can in some way help to produce the necessary supporting documents and orientation decisions. However, I take note of Karin Smiths's reply. Finally, I would like to thank the chairman of the committee for all her efforts.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-861	Madam President, I would like I agree with Nina Lundström's view that we have made various efforts. In this report, we highlight the reasoning on socio-economic calculation models. For example, they would deserve us to get even deeper into them. As they have been used up to now, they have not been a particularly good tool for searching for the investments that most easily lead to the goals we have set ourselves. The whole discussion about allowing the objectives to guide what they want to achieve has been addressed in our review report. We have made announcements about having a national rail supply plan in the first place and allowing it to steer the national plan. I therefore agree that we have made various contributions to the development of transport policy. I thank Nina Lundström, along with the rest of the committee, for her good cooperation.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-864	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. This debate, which I will therefore conclude, has two entrances. One is a debate on the motions we are discussing in the report. And the second is a debate that is perhaps a little hotter, about the motions that we do not deal with in the report. The Alliance representatives have one by one been up in the speaker's chair and expressed great disappointment at not having the opportunity to discuss the motions that we postpone to the next Parliamentary Session. I respect that. You should have great respect for the exercise treatment in Parliament. We should have dealt with those motions during this Parliamentary session as well. However, the important role of this House throughout this process is the decision we made on the infrastructure bill and the allocated framework for the national plans. We made a decision based on the Social Democratic and Environmental Party Government's proposal to increase by SEK 100 billion, compared with what the Alliance Government was able to cope with in the last period. It is clear that, as a Social Democrat, I am proud of the increase, that this House was able to conduct that debate and that we were able to make that decision. The extra 100 billion together with the 522 that existed previously – i.e. 622 billion – have the government to decide when it decides on the national plan. The criticisms of the alliance parties are somewhat different. However, it is important to bear in mind that criticism is not directed at the order of decision itself – I suppose that is the case – but at the fact that there was not a letter that could be exercised and that we could not deal with motions on the infrastructure from individual Members. I assume that the alliance parties still support the fact that it is the government that sets the national plan. Some speakers have argued that we are now seeing delays in infrastructure projects. It's not like that. The decision taken by the government on the national plan and the objects contained therein has been taken. That decision shall not be taken by the Riksdag. It is therefore to be welcomed that we can now increase the allocation for railway maintenance by 47%. At the same time as we greatly increase maintenance, we also increase the capacity of the railways. We are building new railway from Norrbotniabanan in the north to the South-East Link in the south and much in between. We can rejoice that the government has made those decisions, albeit a few weeks later than announced. These decisions benefit everyone who commutes around the country and who suffers from train delays and from not really getting everyday life together with work commuting. These improvements and proposals have already been decided by the government, and they will make it easier for companies such as Volvo, Ikea and LKAB. They have asked for the infrastructure investments that the government is now deciding on because we in this House have allocated EUR 622 billion to the infrastructure in the coming planning period. I think you should be happy about that. The mood of the opposition is a bit bleak. The problem with the decision is not that it came a few weeks too late. The problem is that it is investments that should have been decided decades ago. In particular with regard to maintenance on the railways, I believe that all parties – no parties excluded – must examine themselves; we are part of the situation on the railways today. We should have made those decisions a long time before. But it's not about a delay of a couple of weeks. I would like to make a few reflections on the issues dealt with in the report. There are certainly a lot of people who think that most of the motions discussed in the report are good movements with reasonable conclusions. The content of many exercises is also discussed by the authorities working on these issues, such as the Swedish Transport Administration. Many of the questions are included in this work. The difficult thing is not to write new exercises and suggest that it will be more effective, but the hard thing is to do it out in the business. That's always the case. We want a lot in here, and we have a great frustration that it doesn't work. But we must also realize that it sometimes takes a little longer than we had hoped. There are two areas I would like to mention more specifically. The first is Nina Lundström's and Liberals' motion on the four-step principle. I think it is a good exercise, and it is also the basis for the work that is being done on the development of the national plan and on the management of infrastructure investments. The intentions in Nina Lundström and Liberals' exercise should rather be directed to Nina Lundström, me and others. Nina Lundström previously described the different steps in the four-step principle. It is only in the fourth stage that we start talking about building new ones. It is often like Nina Lundström, me and other of our party colleagues a little too fast jumping to the fourth step despite the fact that action selection studies and other things show that with real-time information and trimming measures you can improve the infrastructure that already exists. I agree that we should be better at it, but we should also take responsibility as politicians and not be too eager to build new ones. The second area I would like to highlight is socio-economic analysis. The mission that the Alliance is looking for is already at Trafikverket. It has to work on developing the socio-economic analyses. It was during the time of the alliance government that that mission was decided. It is well and good to write exercise that it should be more effective, but one should be able to rejoice a little about being a little forward-looking, at least in that part. That mission is already at the Swedish Transport Administration. On the other hand, I would like to warn against an over-reliance on systems where only by means of ingenious computer programs can we rush forward the best infrastructure investments if we press the enter button on the computer. Then everything is ready, and we know exactly what investments we need to make. I believe that we as politicians must strike a balance between different types of analysis where the socio-economic analyses carried out by the Finnish Transport Administration are part of it. But we must also look at other issues, and we must take responsibility for them. It is not possible to slip away from responsibility and hope that it is a smart way of calculating calculations that avoids making the difficult decisions. I believe that we must set priorities and defend these priorities. Then I can agree with the criticism that we should sometimes be clearer when we deviate from the socio-economic analyses. We should then explain more clearly how we have done it. If I had been smart, I would have finished my speech here. I heard Michael Svensson from the Moderates say earlier that you should not sing in the speaker's chair, because it is not serious. I will not sing, but this is the chairman of the Transport Committee, Karin Svensson Sm i ths, the last debate in the Riksdag, and I have written a poem to Karin: Train, train, train and boat on wave A lot of bike and maybe bike on train Fight for electricity, electricity that will make our green world whole But despite from lobbyists a lot toil Car and plane have never been your favorite But, Karin, when we were in China How did you get back here?
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-884	Madam President, I would like As I understood it, Rikard Larsson felt that the letter itself was not important for the government's decision. Yes, the government makes the decision, but let me remind you that it is the government that stated in its own bill how the process should proceed. The Government wrote in the bill that it would return in writing to the Riksdag in the spring of 2018. If I remember correctly, I can see that when the previous government came forward with the letter, the Social Democrats had views on how late or early it should have come. I believe that this is an important democratic principle. I would also like to remind Rikard Larsson that the committee's planning has assumed that the letter would come. It is regrettable that so many different types of proposals that did not receive good treatment because they could have been dealt with in other reports. But then there is another reason why the letter should have come, and that is that we should be able to see transparently and clearly what priorities the government has made. The government has deviated from the Swedish Transport Administration's proposal on the basis of the press conferences. We who sit here have overall responsibility, and we want to make good decisions. It would have been reasonable for us to see how the government has prioritised. What is financed? What's not funded? What has been removed and why? The democratic process requires transparency and clarity. It is important that we, too, take care of it in our work. All kinds of infrastructure issues are so incredibly important. You experience this when you meet different municipalities and citizens. Then my question is also to Rikard Larsson : Why did the letter not come?
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-890	Madam President, I would like Again, I agree with the criticism expressed by Nina Lundström. I also think that the letter should have come earlier so that we could have dealt with it here. What I said in my speech, and what I think one should be clear about, is that it does not change the position on the individual objects. The national plan is solid. The non-treatment of the motions does not mean that the decision on Norrbotniabanan is invalid. This does not mean that decisions about the South East Link, the ports in Gothenburg or Luleå are invalid. All the elements contained in the national plan decided by the government are included. Then I can agree that we should have had the opportunity for a transparent discussion here. We should have had the opportunity to discuss those motions. But we should be clear that it changes nothing fundamentally for the decided bets. They lie as the government has decided. To be honest, I can't tell you why it's been running out of time. I could speculate on it, but it doesn't make much sense. I note that this has been delayed, but at the same time I note that it was an important national plan that the government has decided on that contains many important initiatives for the whole country. It is fixed, whether the letter is late or not.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-895	Madam President, I would like It is incredibly important that we all contribute to trying to increase transparency. This is still a huge amount of money. Over the next twelve-year period, we are talking about over 700 billion. It is an important democratic principle that we can take a stand. Then it is just as Rikard Larsson says, that the Riksdag does not take a position on the individual objects. On the other hand, it is important to uphold these principles. Rikard Larsson mentions the four-step principle. But how are we to take a stand on it, and that is how you have worked? The committee has not been able to take note of the government's argument that we should be able to take a position on it. All processes for making it more cost-effective, for us to have good socio-economic calculations, for us to be transparent and open and to create good follow-up requires that we close the whole process. Otherwise, I think it would have been better if the government had announced early that it is not going to make that letter. After all, the committee would have been able to act in a different way. There are a lot of people out there asking questions about what is going to happen and what priorities are important. In this House we have different priorities. What already exists – the tracks that already exist, the non-electrified tracks, the tracks that do not work, the switches that do not work – is a high-priority issue for the Liberals, and it fits perfectly into the four-step principle. However, as I said, we cannot have a transparent and clear discussion of priorities, because the letter did not come forward. I think it is well-lucky that Rikard Larsson agrees with that. The question then is: What should you do in the meantime until 2045? If the government parties want to push for high-speed trains, the question remains how the trains should roll in the period up to 2045. I look forward to the answer from Rikard Larsson.
i-2bef29f4c45acc8f-901	Madam President, I would like Now I think Nina Lundström has a tendency to exaggerate quite substantially. I agree that the letter should have been dealt with, but Nina Lundström describes it as there is no transparency and that it is a secret letter. It's not like that. This is for everyone to read on the government website, and there will be a letter here. It's not that it's hidden what you've decided. If Nina Lundström sees it as the only initiative on the part of the government being the discussions with the opposition parties on high-speed trains, she has not read the whole proposal that the Swedish Transport Administration has come up with and that the Government has decided to a large extent in the national plan. I listed a couple of measures – Norrbotniabanan and Sydostlinken – but there are many other railway initiatives, such as Lund– Hässleholm, Gothenburg– Borås and an increase in maintenance by 47 percent. We are now also taking hold of the organisation of maintenance to ensure that the Swedish Transport Administration has a greater influence and can have a better organisation of maintenance. I therefore share the view that the letter should have come earlier, but what surprises me most at this moment is that Nina Lundström has not read at all all all the documents that have come up and where we describe everything about the railways and all the initiatives. This is available on the Government's website and will be in a letter to the Riksdag. It is in the documents that we have had in the Committee on Transport and Tourism before. There is the effort, and it is those efforts that will make a difference to the citizens of the country who commute by train, not whether or not this letter is debated in Parliament.
