i-07c6269db9397d2d-2	Mr President, I would like to Today, for the first time, the Swedish Parliament will carry out the mandatory Prime Minister's vote in the form of a government. It is an important expression of our democracy and of Parliament's central position in our governance. Does Parliament have confidence in the current Prime Minister or not? It is also an expression of the consensus that existed in the Basic Law investigation, which proposed the mandatory Prime Minister's vote, and which was subsequently confirmed when the Parliament adopted the new provision. The Alliance gave a clear and joint message to the Swedish people even before the parliamentary elections: One vote for one of our four parties is a vote for a new government and thus for Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister. Today, after the elections, we are doing what we promised before the elections. The mandatory PM vote also means a vote whether the newly elected parliament tolerates the current government. It is clear to the Alliance that Sweden needs a new political direction and therefore a new government. With a voter's support of less than a third, voters have marked the end of the current government. The Alliance believes in Sweden, and we are convinced that even difficult problems can be solved. Sweden has done this before. But it requires a new government that can take a new course that both takes hold of Sweden's problems and takes note of Sweden's opportunities and humbly seeks broad political support for long-term reforms based on broad political agreements. The Moderates, the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals will therefore vote against Stefan Löfven.
i-07c6269db9397d2d-6	Mr President, I would like to In the elections, the Social Democrats were by far the largest party in parliament with 100 seats in parliament. Together with the Left Party and the Green Party, the red-green parties gather 144 mandates, while the bourgeois parties gather 143 mandates. Power conditions are therefore the same as before the election. None of these two have their own majority, and the Swedish Democrats are not part of any bloc. It may be easy to bring down a prime minister. However, the bourgeois parties have avoided doing so in the last four years, for one reason only: they have not wanted to make themselves dependent on the Swedish Democrats to rule the country. We Social Democrats proposed an agreement with the bourgeois parties in order to reach an agreement across the bloc line in the run-up to the presidential elections. We have also initiated cross-border cooperation on the government issue, so far without results. It is now time to leave behind the rhetoric of the electoral movement and deal with the fact that is obvious: a prime minister from the second largest party and the smallest government bloc will depend on the active support of the Swedish democrats in every block-sharing vote. Block policy has thus reached the end of the road. It is not possible to ignore the Swedish Democrats, but it is possible to opt out of cooperation with them, and every decent democratic party should do so. Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister has led Sweden to a position of economic strength. Unemployment has been pushed down, and the employment rate is the highest ever recorded in any EU country. Deficit has turned into surplus, growth is good and public debt is the lowest since the 1970s. In health care, school and care, over 100,000 more have been employed. Stefan Löfven has consistently argued for more cooperation in Swedish politics. During his time as Prime Minister, 26 cross-block agreements have been concluded between the Government and various parties in the Riksdag. The forthcoming term of office will require more cooperation, not less. There is a broad consensus among the parliamentary parties on which are Sweden's major challenges in the future. There should therefore be conditions for agreeing on a policy that prioritises Sweden's development and strengthens cohesion throughout the country. We hope, of course, that the Prime Minister will win today's vote, but even if he falls, the situation in this House will be the same. Stefan Löfven is the party leader of the clearly largest party and has the support of the largest government base. It is not an issue determined by rhetoric; it is an issue determined by mathematics. That is why Stefan Löfven is the most logical founder of the government even after this vote. The Socialist parliamentary group calls for the House to vote in favour of continued confidence in Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister.
i-07c6269db9397d2d-13	Mr President, I would like to Honourable Members of Parliament! The election is over, and the result gave us a number of signals. Perhaps the clearest signal of all was that the voters in our country want another government. The government that we have today collects barely one third of the voter support, and that is not enough to rule the country. During the previous term of office, we have made several attempts to depose Prime Minister Stefan Löfven and to convict his government. In all these attempts, the other opposition has chosen to sit in the gallery. I can only regret that, but at the same time I welcome the fact that after four years we are finally given this opportunity to vote away Stefan Löfven. The question is what happens next. Nevertheless, will it be the same for another four years? We don't know that. I do not envy Mr President, who has the task of trying to steer the parties and party leaders through the negotiations that will now take place. One thing is certain: More than 1 million voters in Sweden voted for the Swedish Democrats. It is true that we do not belong to any bloc. We don't belong to the left, and we don't belong to the right. We hardly go left or right at all. What I know is that I and another 61 Members of this House will do our utmost to safeguard the interests of our constituents over the next four years. That is really the loyalty we have to our constituents. We have a pragmatic starting point – I would like to emphasise that. We have had that for eight years in this House. We are prepared to talk to everyone, and we are prepared to negotiate with everyone. We are prepared to compromise with all parties in the Swedish Parliament. It is important because that is how the system is built, that is, a multi-party system based on negotiation. We are prepared to contribute to a stable government of the country. At the same time, I would like to make it clear that we are not going to sit in the gallery and that we are not going to sit on the knee of either one or the other. We will do our utmost to protect the interests of our constituents. We will do our utmost to stop any attempt to form a government and bring down any government that does not give us a reasonable influence in proportion to our voter support. That is my starting point. I'm standing here, I'm ready to talk, and I'm ready to negotiate. Regardless of how the other members of the Assembly feel about this invitation, an important step is now being taken, at least as far as my group is concerned in the Riksdag. We will vote against Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister.
i-07c6269db9397d2d-21	Mr President, I would like to For the Left Party, this is simple. As has been said before, it is very much a matter of mathematics. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven represents the government base with the highest number of seats in the Riksdag. The Left Party is part of Stefan Lövven's government base. We are prepared to sit in the government or to negotiate the budget, as we have done over the last four years. In every negotiation, our goal has been increased equality and we have pushed through 80 important reforms, such as free medicines and glasses for children. Every step that can lead to greater justice, we are willing to take. The voters have said their thing, and even in this year's elections, the red-green government base has received the greatest support. Since it is Stefan Löfven who has the largest government base, it is also he who has the greatest opportunity to continue to get his budget through. Now, therefore, several parties here are prepared to dismiss the Prime Minister without having any alternative government basis. We think it is deeply irresponsible. The Left Party will therefore vote in favour of Stefan Löfven remaining as Prime Minister.
i-07c6269db9397d2d-25	Mr President, I would like to Now, according to the form of government, we will examine whether the Riksdag has confidence in the Prime Minister. The Green Party has collaborated in a red-green government with Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister for four years. The economy has been strengthened, unemployment has decreased and climate investment has been greatly strengthened historically. We have taken important steps to become the world's first fossil-free welfare nation. We have implemented a strong climate policy, which is a start to an absolutely necessary green transition. We will not give the Swedish Democrats influence over politics. We stand for decency. It is good that this test is carried out. As the election results make it clear that the current government base is the option that has the greatest support from the Swedish people, the Environmental Party will continue to support the Prime Minister. We have faith in Stefan Löfven. We want the current government to continue, preferably with broader support from other parties. The word Parliament comes from the French word for discussion. Now we have to start talking to each other for real. It is time to take joint responsibility for discussing a government over the outdated bloc boundaries. We in the Green Party are ready for such talks. Stefan Löfven is the natural Prime Minister based on the election results. The Green Party will therefore vote in favour of the question of the Prime Minister's support.
i-6dR6vkYdo4YroYmf5Lvasm	The President noted that more than half of the members of the Parliament had voted against and that the Prime Minister would therefore be dismissed.
