i-0a5abea7260fccbb-10	Mr President, I would like to Isabella Hökmark has asked me how I justify the stricter amortisation requirements and what analyses I have built my position on when I have justified stricter amortisation requirements. The proposal to strengthen amortisation requirements is a measure in the relatively new policy area of macroprudential policy. In broad political agreement, Finansinspektionen has been given responsibility for macroprudential policy and for proposing measures to counteract financial imbalances in the credit market. However, Finansinspektionen's proposal for certain macroprudential measures shall be submitted to the Government for consent before the Authority takes the final decision on implementation. It was thus within the framework of this macroprudential process that the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority last autumn submitted to the Government a proposal for stricter amortisation requirements for households with high debt ratios. It is the government's view that a healthier amortisation culture needs to be promoted and that the high and growing indebtedness of Swedish households poses a risk to both individual households and the future development of the economy. This view is shared by the authorities of the Financial Stability Council, i.e. the Financial Supervisory Authority, the National Debt Office and the Riksbank, and by several international assessors, such as the International Monetary Fund – IMF – OECD and the European Commission. Finansinspektionen justified for the team on stricter amortisation requirements, among other things, that the requirement increases the resilience of Swedish households to macroeconomic disturbances, especially those with high debt ratios. In addition, Finansinspektionen argued that the requirement ensures that the mortgage companies will apply repayment conditions that are compatible with a healthy amortisation culture and that counteract excessive household debt. The government shares this assessment. As regards Isabella Hökmark's second question on the analysis of the Government's position, I have already explained these on several occasions, both here in Parliament and at the press conference following the Government's decision to approve Finansinspektionen's proposal. The government's analysis has focused on developments in the housing market, distribution effects and the macroeconomic impact of the proposal. In the recently published review of macroprudential policy, the Swedish National Audit Office recommends the Government to provide written documentation for its positions on the macroprudential measures that require a consent. This basis would then complement Finansinspektionen's analyses with macro-economic and distribution policy analyses. There are currently no requirements for such an accounting. However, it is an issue worth discussing and reflecting on, and if a more robust justification for the government's position would contribute to greater transparency, it is of course positive. The Government will return to the Riksdag on this matter no later than 18 May in its letter in response to the Swedish National Audit Office's report.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-17	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Government for the answers to my questions about the tightening of amortisation requirements, which make it more difficult for new entrants to the housing market, which discourages the important mobility and has led to a reduction in housing construction. Notable is that the Government does not want to take responsibility for the decision but refers to almost all possible institutions in Sweden and abroad. The government's unwillingness to take responsibility is in itself alarming. It is precisely the government that, together with Finansinspektionen, has actively worked without analysis and investigation for the amortisation requirements, which do not take into account the bank's assessment, the borrower's ability to pay or the value of the dwelling. There is reason to be concerned about the development of household indebtedness, but one needs to know and understand the background in order for measures to be relevant and meaningful. Firstly, we have received a comprehensive transfer of ownership from municipal and private housing companies to private individuals. In this part, it is not debt as such that is increasing, but it is the financing of housing that has been transferred from companies and municipalities to private individuals, with certainty in the same housing. Secondly, the prices of flats have certainly increased, but the interesting thing is why. This is partly due to value increases through renovations and improvements. Above all, however, the increase in value is linked to the lack of housing, which gives rise to rising prices. There is growing demand and a small supply. There is too little mobility in the housing market and too little housing. To put it simply, the housing shortage is due to the lack of housing, not to low amortisation or debt as such. And it is the lack of housing that drives prices up. The problem is that the government's solution to this concern – that the housing shortage drives prices up – is to increase the housing shortage while making it even more expensive for people to get a home. This requirement has led to lower mobility in the housing market and reduced housing construction – two flies with one stone to make the housing shortage bigger. And for those who do not have a home, getting one has become even more difficult and expensive. The requirement to relocate has thus led to three things: reduced mobility, less housing and more expensive housing. This means that long-term demand and price developments continue to rise while uncertainty in housing construction leads to less housing production. This is what we are seeing right now. That is why I asked the Government which analysis was the basis for the decision. The Government's answer was that there is no analysis to present in addition to the views and opinions he has presented at certain press meetings. So has there been no investigation or impact assessment in addition to thinking about a press conference? If one has been made, where is it?
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-26	Mr President, I would like to This question is often presented as taking money from borrowers, but it is actually the opposite. This – paying off your debts – is the best way to save. We need a healthy amortisation culture in Sweden. As things stand today, there are major risk factors. We can see that prices are high when it comes to the property – buying a dwelling is expensive. In addition, interest rates are low, which attracts large loans because the monthly expenditure is not very high. The problem arises if interest rates rise, as they will sooner or later. They are extremely low as it is today. There is also a risk that house prices will fall. Many people will then sit with a dwelling on which they cannot afford to pay interest. If they sell, they may lose some of what they once bought the home for, and if too much of the dwelling is borrowed, they may even find it difficult to cope with the loans. This has happened in other countries, not least in Europe. In Spain, it was seen that house prices increased and people were very indebted. It will be fine as long as the interest rate is low, but when the interest rate rises, there will be huge problems. This can lead to a collapse of the Swedish economy. I do not want to paint that this is going to happen, but we have to take into account that it could happen if we have real bad luck. It is important that we as politicians prevent this from happening, because that would mean that very many people would be without accommodation. We know, of course, that there is a shortage of rental apartments, and although we are now finally building rental apartments, it takes a long time to catch up with the shortcomings that exist. Where are the many people who cannot remain in their own homes to go? Besides being in debt over their ears and having difficulty paying, they have nowhere to live. That is why we need to prevent this. One of the best ways to prevent is to amortise. This is not something that affects the individual financially. You save for yourself because you get rid of loans that sooner or later still need to be paid and which means a monthly cost that ticks on. Finansinspektionen has calculated the new amortisation proposal by 1 % further for those who have a loan exceeding four and a half times their income, which shows that it is above all people with good income that this rule will meet. That is why I think there is reason to move forward, and that will also happen, because many people will be able to do this. Already today, many banks make calculations based on income and the size of the loan in relation to the value of the dwelling. In view of this, it is not so dramatic that we create extra security. Of course there are huge problems in the housing market. It's hard to get a tenancy. Many rental apartments have high rents, and it is expensive to buy a dwelling, both a house and a terraced house and a right-of-occupancy apartment. But I do not think we can solve this problem by adding to the over-indebtedness. On the contrary, I believe that it is now that interest rates are low and most people are able to amortise that we should take the opportunity to introduce the amortisation requirement. Then we hope that in the future people will face a crisis if interest rates rise.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-35	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for the opportunity to respond once again to the questions that arise about the process surrounding the strengthened amortisation requirement. I think it is good that we have this debate; it is needed. It is also important that we report what measures we think are needed to have a healthy amortisation culture and that we are clear about what we think it should look like on the mortgage market in Sweden. There I can miss the Moderate analysis and answers to that question. What answers do the Moderates have? What I hear most is that we should just wait and see and close our eyes and keep our fingers crossed because nothing happens. I do not think this is a responsible approach to what both the Swedish responsible authorities and international assessors have identified as the greatest macroeconomic risk for Sweden. When you conduct this important debate, I think you should do it with a high level of truth. There, I think Isabella Hökmark, unfortunately, is quite faltering. To say in an interpellation debate that the government's decision has been taken without analysis, I think it is clear that there is a limit. In the interpellation response, I have explained the analysis that we have already made and I have just read them out in this House. I have answered written questions from Members of Parliament, where I have explained the government's analysis. I have responded earlier in this House to interpellations about the government's analysis. I've given interviews to journalists about the government's analysis. I've been to a press conference after the government's decision, where I've explained the government's analysis. To say then that the government does not have an analysis on this matter is in fact not to tell the truth. I find this regrettable, and I would like the truth to be observed. I also find the claim that the amortisation requirement has led to lower mobility in the housing market regrettable and would like to ask what statistics are behind it. What is Isabella Hökmark's background to such a claim? The supply on the housing market is actually very high. It has not fallen since the first amortisation requirement was introduced. It was, of course, an amortisation requirement that affected considerably more mortgage holders, a majority of mortgage holders. The strengthened amortisation requirement affects 15 per cent of new mortgage holders, so it has a much smaller impact. Since Isabella Hökmark claims to have led to lower mobility, I would like her to present statistics that prove the claim. It would be interesting to hear Isabella Hökmark's answer to the question. I think, of course, that a strengthened amortisation requirement is not the only measure that we need to deal with a difficult situation in terms of debt, but also in terms of housing development. We need to ensure that more is built on the Swedish housing market. I am therefore pleased to note that it is actually being built at record levels. The construction of 70 000 homes was started last year, and that rate seems to be maintained this year. More is being built now than it has been built in decades and much more than during the last government's eight years in power. Even there, perhaps the opposition should show a bit of humility. When you did not succeed yourself, perhaps you should not criticise this government, which has obviously managed to bring about a lot of construction in the Swedish housing market. Of course it's very important. Among other things, the Government has developed the largest housing policy programme that has been presented in decades precisely to increase housing construction. I think the Moderates need to come up with some answers. What is the response of the Moderates to the high household indebtedness? Do not share the assessment of the International Monetary Fund, the OECD, the European Commission, the Riksbank, the Swedish National Debt Office and Finansinspektionen that over-indebtedness is a risk in the Swedish economy. Now, if you think it's a risk, what kind of answer do you have? How to deal with the problem? Then it is not enough just to point to some rather diffuse housing policy talks, because that is not a relevant answer to the question. If the Moderates had thought this to be an important issue, they would have had every opportunity to bring it forward during the discussions that we had, where we laid down the framework of macroprudential policy. I wait with curiosity for Isabella Hökmark's answer.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-44	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish National Audit Office has criticised the Government for not presenting an analysis. I know that the Minister has also been in the Finance Committee, where we have asked for an analysis of the proposal but have not received it. You will obviously come back in May with the type analysis that I think we should have had now, because the amortisation requirement has already been introduced. It is very difficult to buy a home in Stockholm. I do not know if you know what prices look like, but it is not uncommon for one to cost up to 3 million, at least in the inner city, and a little less in the outer regions. To borrow $3 million, you have to make $60,000 a month! It's a pretty high income. In addition, you have to have capital to deposit. If house prices fall slightly, it is great for those who have capital or large income. Everyone else gets even harder to get a place to live. There are statistics all the time that there has been an increase in blanco loans, which I do not think is good. Construction has been reduced. There are real estate companies that cancel their planned projects. In fact, households' loans remain unchanged so far. I would like to reply to Hillevi Larsson that the amortisation requirements do not provide more housing, which is the problem. It is well lesson one in the economy that if there is a small supply of something increases the costs of it. That's exactly how it is, having few homes gives high prices. And the amortisation requirement does not lead anywhere when it comes to getting more housing. Still my question is: How are we going to get more housing, and what are you going to say to those who are now unable to buy a home? I've read about people who separate. A person is still in the apartment or villa and can take the old loans. The person who is going to move gets increased housing costs by type 50 per cent because new loans have to be taken out. This is an absurd situation. And let's not talk about the young people who are leaving home! If any rental apartments are built at all, you may have to pay 15 000 – 16 000 per month for a three. I don't know who's leaving home who can pay for it. This doesn't make it any better. How do we get more housing? On one question, the government, which has been working on this question for four years now, is guilty of the answer.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-52	Mr President, I would like to We now have the highest housing building in a very long time. It's a record building now. We are on the same levels as during the time when the million-dollar program was built. In fact, I did not think we would reach those levels, even if we worked hard for it. Now it's time to hold on to this construction, because we still have a housing shortage. But one can see that government policy has been successful. We've had a wide package. These are regulatory simplifications, which are also continuing, in order to speed up the construction process. It is a question of investment aid to reduce rent levels, because it is a problem that much of new production is too expensive. It is about municipal bonuses, that you reward municipalities that build housing, both rental and owned housing. So we have a broad programme. The purpose of the amortisation requirement is not to build more homes. The purpose of this is to prevent a crash in people's private finances when you no longer manage interest expenses, if you have a high mortgage and interest rates go up. But it also prevents a crash in the Swedish economy, because at worst it could affect so many people that it affects the whole economy at large. We can see that the financial crisis that began in the United States in 2007 was largely due to the overvalued and over-borrowed housing. Many were allowed to walk from house and home when the crash struck. It then spread to Europe, not least to Spain, which is an example of how bad things can go. Amortization requirements are introduced so that we are not so vulnerable on the day interest rates go up and housing prices go down, because now these prices are very high and interest rates are very low. So we are doing this for the future. We must also continue to do much more to build more housing.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-58	Mr President, I would like to I didn't get any answers to my questions, but Isabella Hökmark has a chance to give some answers from the Moderates – we are waiting for them. Since Isabella Hökmark is still hesitant about the government's analysis, I will explain it a little more in detail so that there is no doubt whatsoever. For example, the government has looked at whether there were any alternative proposals that would have the same effect, i.e. reducing the macro-economic risks of a very high level of indebtedness. Sweden has a high indebtedness in households when compared to other countries in our neighbourhood and if you compare historically. It is statistics and facts that cannot be ignored. We could not see that there were such alternative proposals, at least not those that could be supported in the Swedish Parliament. That is why we considered that there was reason to proceed with this proposal, which is the only one put forward that can provide a relevant response. In terms of distribution effects, it is primarily households in Stockholm, where house prices are very high, that are affected. More than others are affected single people without children. Younger households are also affected. However, 57 per cent of households live up to and including 31 years in rental contracts, and they are naturally not affected by the amortisation requirement because they do not have housing loans. One error that often occurs in the debate is that the amortisation requirement affects those with low incomes in particular. That's not true. Both Finansinspektionen's analyses and the Government's own analysis show that 75 per cent of those affected by the amortisation requirement are in the three highest income deciles, i.e. among the 30 per cent of the population with the highest income. It is therefore mainly high income earners with high loans who are affected by the requirement. We also know from international examples, and here we have also done analyses, that when a country suffers a recession or an economic downturn, it is above all those who have high household debts that change their behaviour economically. They cut down a lot on consumption in order to pay off their mortgages. This leads to an economic downward spiral and a recession that can be both more difficult and longer than it would otherwise have been – if we do not create buffers within households and the national economy. This is exactly what the strengthened amortisation requirement is for doing. I hope that we can therefore complete the discussion on whether or not there is an analysis because I have also explained at a detailed level what the government's analysis looks like. I think it is good that the Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed macroprudential policy. It is also noted that work is still ongoing and that it is therefore more difficult to carry out an analysis. We think it is a good thing to give a hand in the process. However, it is clearly forward-looking; it talks about what should be done on the next occasion, since the government takes a position on proposals from the Financial Supervisory Authority. If the Moderates thought that the issue was important and that the government should carry out a written analysis, they had every opportunity to bring it forward in the long and broad discussions that we had before we placed macroprudential responsibility at Finansinspektionen, which was appointed the responsible authority to follow these issues, gather expertise to develop relevant proposals and design them at a detailed level. But no such demands came from the Moderates; there were no such desires at all. It is therefore a little surprising that you now think it is such an important issue because you did not think so at the time. Since Isabella Hökmark still highlights this, I would like to repeat my questions. What answers do the Moderates have? How do the Moderates think they should handle the risks in the Swedish economy? Are the Moderates still behind the macroprudential framework? Are the Moderates behind the fact that Finansinspektionen is the responsible expert authority for macroprudential policy? If the Moderates now focus on and require the Government to do all the work and not lean on Finansinspektionen, what does it mean that Finansinspektionen is the relevant expert authority regarding macroprudential policy? Are the Moderates behind Finansinspektionen as an expert authority for macroprudential policy?
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-71	Mr President, I would like to I think you should try to imagine what it's like for the individual people who find it difficult to buy a home and find a place to live, because that's how it is now. As we saw with the previous amortisation requirement that there was a dampening, that some projects stopped and that it became more difficult to get a home and more difficult to borrow, it surprises me that the government is taking another step. We already saw these effects before 1 March when the next step would be taken, and they have a great impact on people's economies. Those with low incomes will not be able to buy a home at all. There will be no housing for those who earn a little less, do not have capital or have parents who can pay. That is the big problem. I still wonder and have not been answered: in what way is the lack of housing reduced by building fewer homes? How is price development curbed by reduced mobility? What does the minister say to a young family who wants to get a place to live? It doesn't get any easier because it's more expensive to get it. The Moderates have many suggestions. One is that it would be good to remove rent regulation. This has been done in Brussels, so people can have a rental home at once. However, taxis are regulated, so you cannot get a taxi. That's how it works with regulations. But as I said, how will there be more housing with this? That's the big problem. What does the Minister say to those who cannot actually move because they cannot take out new loans or to those who do not even enter the housing market? We have to think about the individual.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-77	Mr President, I would like to Again Isabella Hökmark comes with claims that do not correspond with reality. I regret that, because that kind of departure is not needed in a relevant debate. Mobility in the housing market has not decreased after the amortisation requirement. The supply of housing, in the form of the number of dwellings available for sale, has not decreased, and the share of the total number of dwellings switching owners has not decreased since the amortisation requirement was introduced. It is difficult to understand what statistics Isabella Hökmark bases her claims on. We still have no answer to that, but it may come in forthcoming debates. Let's hope so. I also find it regrettable that we have a housing market that does not work as well as it would need. I'm afraid it's a historic debt. For a long time too little has been built in Sweden. Not least, the government that has spent eight years has a great responsibility for not doing more and not bringing about a change. Then it was built much less than it has been built in the years that the Red-Green Government has been in power. Moderates often return to a change in rent regulation. But we have a system of presumption rents that according to leading housing experts are actually market related, i.e. you pay a relevant market price when you enter a newly built tenancy. That answer is therefore not a relevant response to the challenges we face with excessive indebtedness in the Swedish household sector. The Government has made a lot of efforts to ensure that we have a generally broad consensus on macroprudential responsibility and take responsibility for not building up risks in the Swedish economy. I wish we could keep that consensus. I miss it and hope we can get back to it. I particularly miss the answers of the Moderates. It is regrettable if you do not want a healthy amortisation culture in Sweden, because that is something we have been able to agree on before.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-83	Mr President, I would like to Johan Forssell has asked me whether I and the Government intend to take any action in response to the widespread criticism of the proposal. The question concerns the proposal announced on 27 November 2017 to give young unaccompanied asylum seekers who have been refused an opportunity to obtain a residence permit to study. On 30 January 2018, a draft legislative referral was submitted proposing that certain young unaccompanied asylum seekers should be given the opportunity to apply for a residence permit for upper secondary school studies. The deadline for the referrals was 20 February 2018. Work is currently under way to compile and analyse referrals. There is therefore currently no further information to be provided as to which considerations will be made in relation to the referrals received.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-85	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I have asked this interpellation on a question that we have had the privilege of discussing in this House a number of times. We will see if we will continue to do so in the future. I have pointed out in a number of discussions that the new legislation announced by the government is not only contrary to what the government, not least the Minister for Migration itself, has said in the past on a large number of occasions that it would do but also suffers from a wide range of practical problems and difficulties. As the Minister said, this has been out for a referral, and now we can read a large number of referrals that have been received. It's actually not a very good reading. In any case, this is not a funny reading, because criticism of the bill is extensive from a wide range of different instances. The police authorities say that with a reduced requirement of proof for identity, control over who resides in the country is reduced. The Stockholm Administrative Court of Appeal says that the proposal is designed in such a way that the proposal is so flawed that it should not be implemented. The Migration Board points out that legislation that is already difficult to enforce, not least because of the previous high school law passed by the government, will now be further complicated, which may affect legal certainty. The Administrative Court in Malmö says that the proposed basis can be considered a disguised amnesty for a limited group. This is how we can continue – there are more answers, from the Swedish Security Service, the Administrative Court in Stockholm, the Administrative Court in Gothenburg and others – but overall this indicates that this legislation is not well thought out. What we do in this House and the decisions we make have consequences. Since migration policy affects people directly and is an extremely central issue in the political debate, it is necessary to think carefully about any changes you make. I would like to remind you of the consequences of the former High School Act passed by the government. It was slyly worded. It is a strong word, but no other word can be found to describe it. It was so rash and imprecise that it resulted in people who did not have grounds for protection, who had been rejected on their asylum application and who should return home being able to use a loophole to prevent the expulsion from being carried out. Both the border police and other actors noted and addressed the problem. The government did not deal with the issue until we in the Alliance pointed this out in the Social Security Committee and took an initiative to bring about a change, which I hope can now be achieved soon. This shows how much wrong it can be when the government is in too much hurry in the important legislative work. Now we have all the referrals' answers on the table. I assume that the government will be impressed by them. I find it difficult to see how this can be done otherwise than simply by withdrawing the bill.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-95	Mr President and Johan Forssell! This is a proposal for a temporary measure aimed at a limited group of unaccompanied minors and young people who have come here but who have had to wait a long time to have their application examined. After a very long waiting period of over 15 months, sometimes up to two years, they have been rejected. They are still in the country and have in many different ways linked to Sweden. The government has seen this, and in November it presented a proposal for a temporary measure for a limited group and an opportunity to offer these people a transition to either finishing or starting upper secondary school studies. Let me answer Johan Forssell very clearly once again. This is not a change in either the right of asylum or the principle of regulated immigration in Sweden. This is an issue that the government sees and which has engaged and engages many parties in the Swedish parliament but also people and organisations. We see this in the referee. As I said in my initial reply, we have just received the referrals. Now Johan Forssell chose some well-chosen quotes that fit into the moderate argumentation, but I can without commenting on any individual referrals were to say that we sent out to 58 instances and got answers out of 50 in a short time. In total, 200 submissions have been received with comments on the proposal, which underlines that there is a great deal of commitment to these issues. It is not uncommon that in a consultation round there are both happy calls, positive comments and appreciation of the government's proposal and criticism of the proposal. That is why it is so important that the government's work now contains a good analysis and a summary of the comments received. I am happy to reply again: the Government intends to come back shortly with a proposal which will show what considerations we will take into account from the consultation round that has now been carried out.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-100	Mr President, I would like to The consultation bodies I have listed not only make happy calls in the crowd, but it is the authorities that have just these questions on their table. It is therefore the Police Authority, the Administrative Court of Appeal in Stockholm, the Migration Agency, the Administrative Court in Stockholm, the Administrative Court in Gothenburg, the Administrative Court in Malmö and also the Swedish Security Service and more that have clearly identified a number of shortcomings. That is serious criticism. It is not possible to wave this away by saying that there are always a few different points of view. I hope that the Minister for Migration will take the impression of this so that we do not again get the situation that we had in the autumn, when the hasty and hasty implementation of the former High School Act resulted in the forced return risking, in principle, to lie down because of the gap in government legislation. That would be very boring. I have often believed in recent years that the Moderates and the Social Democrats agreed on the importance of having regulated immigration, that we can manage the integration of the many people who have come to Sweden in a short time and that one of the answers required is to have an immigration policy based on the right of asylum, where the need for protection applies. The needs are enormous-- we know that. If you are going to be able to navigate correctly there, you must take care of the principle that the person who is a refugee should receive a residence permit in Sweden and quickly enter integration efforts but that people who do not have protection reasons can return home. Then they can come, for example, as labour immigrants, which we need to get you out of. Heléne Fritzon has also agreed on this at several occasions. Last autumn we had a long debate on this very subject. As today, the Minister for Migration was very convinced, but about the very opposite of the view that the Minister for Migration is putting forward here today. At that time, the assessment was that the answer was not new supplementary legislation. Instead, it was the Migration Board and ultimately the Migration Courts who, after individual examination on objective grounds, would find out whether there was a need for protection. This was repeated several times in the debate by the Minister for Migration. Then we stand here today, just a few months later, and the government is strongly saying the opposite. It is very difficult to find any red-green thread in this. Unfortunately, this is not the first time either. We recently had an example where the Finance Minister went out and said that asylum seekers should go to other countries. Then it was a few hours before the Minister for Education went out and said that that is not the government's position. Prime Minister Löfven said that his Europe would not build any walls. Then almost overnight there were ID checks and asylum legislation that are said to be at the lowest level in the EU. In addition, we have the immigration minister's own blunders in this, where one thing was first said clearly and then something quite different is done. One may think it is different serious to say different things. But the point is, it's not about what you say, it's about what you actually do. The legislation now before the government has been condemned by a number of consultation bodies for very good reasons, I would say. There is talk of everything from the fact that it is legally insecure to the fact that the costs are underestimated and that this resembles a disguised amnesty for 9 000 people who do not have protection reasons, who have been tried and who, in accordance with regulated immigration, should actually return home. They can then come as labour immigrants – that is the opportunity. But this bill is ill thought out, and it should actually be withdrawn.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-107	Mr President, I would like to The government has a deal. It is quite clear when we present a legislative referral. I think it looks a little more worrying on the bourgeois edge of precisely migration issues, and perhaps particularly on this particular issue. I have the greatest respect for all the referral points received. As I said, there have been 200 referral points. I read everyone, and the government analyses everyone. Johan Forssell selects some who of course fit his argumentation. I start from and hope that we agree on the basics and that Johan Forssell defends the right of asylum – I have not received a very clear answer from the Moderates – and that we will continue to work on order and order in migration policy. We introduced the temporary law, then also with the support of the Moderates. This, in turn, has meant that we have made other countries take a slightly increased responsibility for Europe's refugee policy. I will be very careful to say that these are very difficult issues. It is about people in vulnerable situations, and it is about a responsibility that society, through this proposal, assumes because people in vulnerable situations have had to wait a very long time. The background is the exceptionally large reception Sweden had in 2015 and 2016. That is why the government is considering this proposal, and that is why it has chosen to table a legislative referral at a very high speed, to have a short consultation round and yet has received as many points of view as 200 bodies can make in three weeks. I think that is impressive, and the government will consider this in every way in its work. Finally, I have a question for Johan Forsell to try to understand the arguments of the Moderates. When you ruled, you had the opportunity to make proposals. You put forward a proposal that you called the change of track. This meant that those who had been refused their asylum application could have a new opportunity to be examined for a work permit. We're basically doing exactly the same thing. You've been turned down because you were judged to be an adult and not a child. You then get an opportunity to enter into something as important as education and an offer of upper secondary school studies. It is quite incomprehensible to me to see any difference in these two proposals. You have got a no, you get another opportunity to continue for another time in Sweden. If it then leads to work, you can get a residence permit. This applies to both these routes, both for the change of track and for the proposal that the government has now put forward.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-115	Mr President, I would like to The government agrees, says the Minister for Migration. It's possible that the government is now. But then it is because today the Minister for Migration is standing in the Chamber giving very convincing speeches which go in the opposite direction from what she said in the same convincing way just a few months ago. I'm just saying this to make sure we're clear about it. I can draw no other conclusion from this fact than that the Green Party still has a very great influence on this government's migration policy, obviously a greater influence than Minister of Migration Heléne Fritzon himself. This is an important observation in the run-up to this autumn's election campaign. As far as the question of changes of track is concerned, I think there is a very big difference. I do not think that one should force out a person who has a job, who can support himself and who is involved in contributing to the common good of all. On the contrary, I think it is a wise moderate principle that own efforts, diligence and work should pay off and be rewarded. As I have said several times, for example, we need more labour migration to Sweden. But what the government is now doing is something else, that is to give a large-scale cost of residence permits for upper secondary school studies to 9,000 people – a larger group, moreover – who have been refused. This totals SEK 3 billion distributed over a three-year period. This is described as order and order. But seriously, the Minister for Migration, how much order is it to give a residence permit to 9 000 people who have been rejected? How much order is it that the person who has been refused, followed Swedish laws and rules and returned home is not covered, while the person who has remained in the country, in violation of current legislation, against Swedish laws and regulations, should be able to be granted a residence permit? How much order is there, Minister of Migration?
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-120	Mr President, I would like to The basic principle is that we in Sweden have a starting point where we say that the people who may be covered by the proposal should not end up in a worse position than they would if the procedure had taken place under more normal conditions. Johan Fors sell knows that it is about three to four months. These people have come and applied for asylum as unaccompanied minors and young people. They have had to wait more than 15 months, in several cases up to two years, have been judged as adults and have received a "no" and remain in the country. Several of them have also started upper secondary education. Now we give them an opportunity to apply for an entrance to upper secondary school studies that can look a little different. It can be conventional upper secondary school studies, it can be komvux, it can be folk high school and it can be the professional package that in turn provides an opportunity for a transition to work – what in Johan Forssell's context is called track change. This is the starting point and basis for the proposal that the government has made for consultation. The starting point is that in all ways we continue to protect both order and justice and the right to asylum in Swedish politics. As far as the right of asylum is concerned, I did not actually get an answer. However, I thank you for your answer to the question of the change of track, and I thank you for the interpellation and debate.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-122	Mr President, I would like to Marie Olsson has asked me what I intend to do to contribute to a solution to the stoppage that has now hit Mora-Siljan airport, and in what way I believe that a regular flight between Arlanda and Mora-Siljan airport could also be secured in the longer term. Peter Helander has asked me what prevents me and the government from taking overall responsibility and making a decision through regulatory letters to impose public service obligations on the entire route Sveg– Mora– Arlanda. Since the amendments concern the same subject area, I choose to reply to them in a joint answer. Between Trafikverket and Flexflight ApS, there is an air traffic agreement to fulfil public service obligations on the route between Härjedalen Sveg Airport and Stockholm Arlanda Airport. In the performance of such obligations, a stopover in Mora is permitted. Flexflight ApS has been in Mora since November 2015, but the company has recently announced its intention to end this stopover. As mentioned by Marie Olsson, this would mean that the route between Mora Siljan Airport and Stockholm Arlanda Airport would end. Regarding Peter Helander's question concerning the decision to impose public service obligations on the entire route Sveg – Mora – Arlanda, the Finnish Transport Agency has, according to its instructions, the task of concluding and being responsible for the state's agreement on transport policy-driven interregional public transport, including air transport, which is not maintained in other directions and where there are no conditions for commercial operation. The Swedish Transport Administration has investigated the need for procured air traffic for the period 2019-2023, and the route between Mora Siljan Airport and Stockholm Arlanda Airport is not considered transport policy justified for public service obligations. However, Mora Siljan Airport is still possible to use for stopover and other air traffic. The Government is well aware of the situation of the route between Mora Siljan Airport and Stockholm Arlanda and continuously takes note of information about the situation. We are a government for the whole country, and non-governmental airports, in addition to the government's basic supply of airports, have an important role to play in achieving good accessibility throughout the country. At the same time, the environmental and climate impact of aviation will be reduced. Finally, Peter Helander has pointed out the need for me and the government to have a holistic approach to this issue. I would like to mention, then, that the Government Office has begun the airport review announced by the Government in the aviation strategy last year. The review is carried out on the basis of a clarification of the State's responsibilities and role as a provider of aid to non-State airports.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-128	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking Minister Tomas for his answer to the interpellation. Since 1 March, the air traffic between Mora and Arlanda has been completely down. It is very important that the stop does not become permanent. Work on finding a solution must continue, and I know that this issue is being actively addressed. When we last stood here, it was not quite clear which routes would be included in the Swedish Transport Administration's procurement of air service obligations. Now we know that Trafikverket has decided not to impose public service obligations at Mora-Siljan Airport, and neither is it likely that Trafikverket will change its own initiative. This airport is located in an outlying area with low traffic intensity and a long distance to Stockholm Arlanda and other corresponding airports with a network of national and international communication facilities. The possibilities of using other modes of transport to Stockholm, for example, are quite limited. For example, the train from Mora station to Stockholm Central takes almost four hours – the times the train along Dalabanan runs according to schedule. Unfortunately, it is only the timetable Trafikverket is looking at when investigating the need for public service obligations. The reality can be a completely different one along the Dalabanan, where it would actually also need quite a lot of investment. I travel that distance twice a week, and on Monday last week it took just over nine hours to get from Mora to Stockholm. When I went home on Thursday I left Stockholm at. 17.45 and arrived in Mora at 5 p.m. 03.15– nine and a half hours later. Yesterday when I went down it actually took just over four hours, towards the three hours and forty-one minutes of the timetable, and then it actually felt really good. When the flight no longer goes, business travellers who need to be able to fly further out into Europe must travel before to be sure to catch the morning flight from Arlanda. Unfortunately, this will mean that more and more people are taking the car. The flight does not go, because there is nothing, and the train is no longer really trusted. I'm sorry to hear the discussions in the train cars when you're on a train. Unfortunately, it will be a car instead, and it will mean an even greater environmental burden. Every day traffic stops, more and more jobs are in danger of smoking at the companies in northern Dalarna. Management, training functions and sales departments are the first to be moved from our municipalities. Then come production units – the risk is that management thinks it is a bit messy to visit the units. It is primarily the technology and forest companies that together with the tourism industry are the backbone of our business sector up in northern and western Dalarna. I know that this is not news for the Government, but it underlines the importance of finding a solution to the issue.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-136	Mr President, I would like to It may be that I need a couple of posts in order to get all my arguments out. However, I thank Minister Tomas for the answer, although it was not the answer I had hoped for. As Marie Olsson said, air traffic between Mora and Stockholm ceased on Thursday. The Government of Eneroth says that the airline chose to stop flying, and I wonder who wrote it in the government script. It really is a rewrite that does not really describe what has happened. For a long time – since 2015 – the airline operating the Sveg – Arlanda route, where there is a public service obligation, has been able to stop at Mora for a further journey to Arlanda. Mora Municipality has paid for the stopover, as there is no basis for commercial traffic. It has been a solution that has worked relatively well. The airline's agreement with Trafikverket states, as the Government says, that you can make a stopover in Mora. But suddenly someone at Trafikverket has felt that you can't do what you've done in recent years. Although the airline may make a stopover, this must be done on a commercial basis. Mora municipality must not pay for the stopover. This is the first of many steps 22 situations in this deal. As there is no commercial basis for stopover, the airline no longer lands. The truth is also that the Swedish Transport Administration has talked to the airline and said that it will withdraw the permits for the entire flight if the company will stop and charge. So the company doesn't jump Mora voluntarily. Now the plane is flying over our heads at Mora Airport – we can actually see visually when it passes us, which feels really strange. We stand with an airport without contact with Arlanda. The Government's response states that the environmental and climate impact of aviation will be reduced, which is an honourable ambition that we in the Center Party share. But I have to ask how the environmental and climate impact of aviation is reduced by the aircraft flying over our heads and continuing down to Arlanda. Moreover, since this is largely about business trips, as Marie says, companies will take the car instead. For a long time there have been discussions with Trafikverket about how to solve the situation. As the Government pointed out, the Finnish Transport Administration makes its assessment of which routes are subject to public service obligations, and for some reason it has chosen not to impose public service obligations on the Mora – Arlanda route. On the other hand, they say that the Torsby – Hagfors route should continue to have public service obligations, and they say that Kramfors should also have public service obligations – despite the fact that there are better conditions and are closer to other airports there than in Mora. This is also complicated by the fact that the EU regulatory framework says that state aid cannot be granted to a route if it is possible to reach the capital in less than three hours. This is where Trafikverket has spent an hour and says four hours. We'll end up just under four hours if you happen to live at Mora's station. It'll take just under four hours. The Government may know that the catchment area of northern Dalarna represents approximately 70 per cent of Dalarna's area, which is as large as Slovakia. It takes at least two and a half hours to get from Grövelsjön down to Mora and then be able to travel by train. This means that it takes at least six and a half hours of one trip and thirteen hours of return. The Swedish Transport Administration thinks this is a good accessibility, but I do not think so. I wonder if the Government shares the Swedish Transport Administration's assessment.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-145	Mr President and Minister Eneroth. I fully agree that it is important for the whole country to live and that it is crucial for entrepreneurship and small businesses in rural areas that we have a well-functioning communication plan and well-functioning communications. Small and medium-sized enterprises are currently dependent on customers and suppliers quite far from home. It is not only contacts with other parts of Sweden that are required, but also with the continent. Without good communications, it is difficult to continue to operate and develop in Dalarna. Dalarna needs a connection with the capital and the opportunity to reach the world via Arlanda. As we have heard here before from the speaker's chair, this is not the right option for us who live in Dalarna, and it is even worse if you live in northern Dalarna. I was also on the 17.45 train on Thursday. I was just going to Falun and thought I'd be home at 8:30 in the evening but came home at 3:30 in the morning. So it is not an option to travel by train rather than by plane. It takes much longer to travel by train between Mora and Stockholm than 20 years ago, provided that the train arrives in time. Now the problem is how to get down to Arlanda when the flight has been closed for a week. As I said, the Finnish Transport Agency has put forward proposals on which routes it wants to invest and where air traffic can be procured, and this is done by imposing obligations on the route. But the Swedish Transport Administration believes that Mora has such good communications without flights that there is no need for public service obligations.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-152	The sparsely populated Sweden is apparently supposed to have less communications than the rest of Europe. The Minister for Infrastructure has previously announced in this Chamber that it is up to the Finnish Transport Administration to decide on regional traffic. When the Alliance was in power, we took responsibility for the lines that required support – I am thinking of the Arlanda line – Hagfors– Torsby – and ordered the Swedish Transport Administration to change its decision. The current government has the same possibility through its regulatory letter to the Finnish Transport Administration regarding these public service obligations to Mora airport. The Minister has done so earlier by purchasing the night traffic between Östersund and Stockholm. Why not do the same with the plane to Mora to save business in northern Dalarna? This is not a budget issue, because there are funds in the framework of procured traffic. Nor is it an environmental issue, because aviation is already part of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-156	Mr President, I would like to This issue is extremely important and should also be put into context when it comes to where Swedish flights should go. We from the Moderates believe that Swedish flights will be needed even more in the future, given that we will be able to travel from and to parts of the country that in other ways can be inaccessible and at the same time be able to keep our companies going. As my predecessors have said here, it is extremely important for companies to be able to reach markets and to get service technicians and other things into their industries and gain skills. It is also important for tourism in the future. So the flight will mean more and more to make the country really connected. Then this is the wrong way to go. The government's policy in this area is simply not connected now. We have a minister who says that we should invest in rural areas while raising taxes on petrol and diesel and proposing new kilometres of taxes. The Minister for Infrastructure is now involved in the closure of operational air routes. Aviation taxes are introduced and are therefore detrimental to industry and tourism. It threatens the supply of skills and threatens market contacts for businesses and more. This is not good, Minister of Infrastructure. Discontinued routes also threaten the airport in Mora, which is even more serious in view of ambulance helicopters and other air transport and other things that must be found in the area. It is simply a mockery of the countryside. We lack other transport options and depend on working flights and roads. Instead, this government and the Minister are planning new, expensive high-speed trains which are directly unprofitable and which will eat up an enormous amount of money in infrastructure investments forward. To pay for this, you increase petrol and diesel taxes and introduce kilometre taxes and air taxes. This is not a good policy for the whole country to really work. Mr President, I would like to I recently read that Kastrup is now reducing its landing fees on 1 April by 30%. This takes place at the same time as the Government and the Minister introduce a new air tax in Sweden on 1 April. This will encourage the transfer of transport from Sweden to Kastrup. So they intend to lower the prices of their airline tickets in Denmark to pick up shares from Sweden when the Swedish government introduces a flight tax. This is not good for the environment, it is not good for our companies and it will hamper the development we are so dependent on in order to maintain our welfare here in Sweden. This policy is not good. It's not good for the environment. Now people are going to get in cars to get to another airport to be able to fly on out into the world. That's exactly what's going to happen in Mora, too. The concern is: Should these people get in the car and go 160 km to Sveg or 100 km to Borlänge instead? According to the information I have, 80% of travellers travelling from Mora are business travellers. So it is the business community, those who create jobs and growth in the area, that uses the airport. This is one of the lifebloods that must function in rural areas. I have to ask the question, just as Marie Olsson did before: what does the Minister intend to do to save this line? And how do you strengthen companies and benefit jobs, growth and opportunities in rural areas when you close flights? Rather, we want to start air routes to get close to the countryside.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-166	Mr President, I would like to I could not really keep myself from participating in the discussion when, among other things, Sten Bergheden was up in the speaker's chair. I think that this whole issue is a disservice when you pull out the argument that Sten Bergheden is doing here. I think this is an important issue and I have tried to follow it. I've also been to Mora Airport. I think the question is worrying, and I realise that this is worrying for Mora and parts of Dalarna. But I still can't avoid describing the perspective that I had when I entered the Riksdag and started working on aviation issues in 2014. At that time we had two discussions on aviation. A discussion focused on the regional survival of air transport and regional airports, because their chances of receiving state aid or from the municipalities were threatened mainly by the EU regulation on state aid. That was one question, and it was large and important for many parts of the country and for the parts that Sten Bergheden is talking about. Today we are in a different situation. The EU has reduced pressure on regional airports. The relief is great in many places over the fact that state and municipal support can actually be provided. The government is investing new money in state aid to regional airports. So there has been a great deal of positive action there. The second question that I was very courted about was actually about Dalarna, namely about Sälen Airport. There was great concern that the resources hoped for by the state would not be available for the construction of Sälen Airport. That's what you got. That's what the government decided. It was an important issue for Sälen and for the opportunity to develop tourism in that part of Dalarna. I'm saying this because I think you shouldn't try to mix the cards away. The question is not worthy of making this a major national debate on regional policy. The issue is complex in itself. It is said here that the Finnish Transport Administration ignores EU rules. It's not like that. The EU has not written rules saying that there must be public service obligations on the routes if the journey time is longer than three hours. Europe does not work that way. The EU says that if travel time is less than three hours, no state aid can be granted. The EU has almost always been careful not to grant State aid that destroys free competition. That is the starting point for EU regulation. The EU does not force anyone to give state aid at all. I think you should nuance the discussion a little. This is a matter of concern to Dalarna. I hope that a solution can be found, but one should be careful to make too many changes to what is happening right now.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-174	Mr President, I would like to Thanks to all the interpellants for wise and insightful posts! I can agree with Rikard Larsson's view that Sten Bergheden's attempt to make a little more national policy out of this might not have been the most successful. Employment did not increase dramatically while we had a bourgeois government. It was not when the business community flourished, either in Dalarna or elsewhere. On the contrary – then you reduced investment in infrastructure, then unemployment skyrocketed and then you indebted Sweden, Sten Bergheden. Today we have a different situation. Today we have the highest level of employment in the European Union. Youth unemployment, which was the major issue of the 2014 elections, is the lowest in 14 years. It is also good growth and surplus in central government finances. We are taking structural action instead of making emergency solutions, not least with regard to aviation policy, with a national aviation strategy and with a Arlanda Council, of which I am chairman. There we look at Arlanda's long-term development. Speaking of Kastrup, we have a lot to learn from the Danish systematic investment in a proper national flight hub. We are now moving forward with an airport review, where we look at the entire Swedish airport structure. It is important that we do not end up in such a situation as the previous bourgeois government did. When the market did not carry air policy or routes, it had to go in and make far-reaching commitments. I have appreciated the dialogue I have had with the representatives in Dalarna. I was recently courted by the County Governor, Ylva Thörn, together with Anna Hedh, municipal councillor of Mora, and Abbe Ronsten, regional politician. They were incredibly constructive when it comes to looking at what we can do to ensure long-term sustainable conditions for Dalarna and for the regions to have good connections with the capital. It's incredibly important. The Government's investment in Sälen is important for developing not least the tourism industry in such a region. But good communications – whether it is air, rail or road – must also work well for the strong industrial region that Dalarna actually is. That must be the starting point when we look at what efforts we can make. The State currently provides substantial support to the airport structure. Although Mora-Siljan has 6,455 passengers – it is one of Sweden's smallest airports – it still receives SEK 2.3 million in state aid to the airport. In the budget we now have a further investment of 85 million at regional airports. It is, by the way, an initiative that the bourgeois parties reject. This is a government that sees that aviation is of great importance, not least domestic aviation, for the possibility of connecting a country. Because we are a government for the whole country. We are a government that ensures the relocation of government agencies throughout the country and ensures that government services exist throughout the country. We will of course also work intensively to find good connections, also for the Dala region, to the rest of the country. But the question is complex. I know that Marie Olsson, Peter Helander and several others are as deeply initiated as I am in how to deal with a tangled EU regulatory framework on state aid rules with conditions for commercial and public interests in terms of the ability to collect traffic. The government has not shut down the airport or air traffic. It is the Swedish judiciary that interprets the laws we have and the European law we have. And in a judgment of the Falu District Court, it was decided that you must not receive double compensation in the way Flexflight did. Therefore, it is reasonable that the Finnish Transport Administration announced this. The effect was that Flexflight chose not to fly that route. I intend to continue to follow the issue and engage constructively with the regional representatives in Dalarna. I also recognise the importance and importance of good connections between Dalarna and not least the metropolitan area.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-187	Mr President, I would like to I want to start by correcting Sten Bergheden. There are no flights from Borlänge to Arlanda. From Borlänge you can fly domestic to Malmö and Gothenburg but not to Arlanda. I would like to add further consequences. It is about the consequences for health care. Mora lasaret's ability to perform emergency medical care and contribute to organ transplants will unfortunately be eroded quite quickly as a result of this. We will have to have a much lower level of preparedness than today. Regular traffic is the cornerstone of Mora-Siljan airport's ability to handle organ and other wing-borne air ambulance operations, in principle around the clock, thanks to the need for ramp operations such as snow clearance, refuelling and tower operations caused by scheduled flights. Mora lasaret is also able to maintain a high level of competence by allowing staff with high specialist skills to be flown in at short notice. So the position of Mora lasarett is also at risk from this delay – as I would like to see – in air traffic. The Finnish Transport Agency has investigated the need for air traffic for the period 2019 – 2023, and the Mora – Arlanda route is not considered justified for public service obligations. However, as has been said, it is proposed to continue the possibility of a stopover. And the solution with stopover, with flights from Sveg to Arlanda, has been good. It couldn't go on, legally. We understand that. There's no doubt there. The route is essential for the whole region. I mean the economic and social development of Mora as well as Orsa, Älvdalen, Malung-Sälen and Vansbro. I hope that together we can ensure that the whole of Sweden will live and that we can ensure that Mora-Siljan airport will have obligations in the future. There have been exceptions in the past, just as Peter Helander pointed out. This was the Torsby– Hagfors– Arlanda and Kramfors– Arlanda section. There needs to be exceptions here too.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-194	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to correct a few figures. It may not have the world's greatest importance, but it is 7,500 passengers from Mora, of which 3,900 operate the Mora – Arlanda route. The rest are tourists from southern Sweden who are going to Sälen. We don't think they'll fly to Mora when Sälen's airport is ready. So we are talking about 3,900 travellers. I'll also say that Sveg has 6 300 travelers. Everyone therefore understands that it is not commercially viable. In the discussion with Trafikverket, there has really been no room to find a solution. At the Trafikverket you have at least not been able to find solutions so that you can fly Sveg–Mora– Arlanda. Even if the municipality says that we can pay our share of the costs, the Swedish Transport Administration says that there are no forms for it, which leads to quite heavy sighs. Because we've done it before. Then it was about trains. The region went in and paid part of the train costs. Why can't Mora City procure the traffic itself? That would be very bad from a socio-economic point of view, but one might well do that. Rikard Larsson pointed out that this would be an opportunity. But it's not. The Finnish Transport Agency says that no one, not even the municipality, can procure because there are no obligations on the Mora route – Arlanda Airport. This is their interpretation of the legislation. Why do you choose to interpret it that way, you might wonder. This is where the second element 22 ‐ the situation arises. What are you gonna do with an airport without a plane? The Government's response states that an airport review is under way to clarify the responsibility of the State and to see what support the State can provide to non-governmental airports. Even if we get 100 million, what are we gonna do with that money if we don't have a flight? So it is aviation that is the basis for the whole issue. The Mora – Arlanda route is a flight for companies where 80 per cent are business trips of the 3,900 who fly. There are 2 000 companies and 18,000 employees in the catchment area. There are a number of international companies operating in an international market in the region. They were set up as family businesses and then acquired by larger companies operating in international groups. Of these, there is a company with 250 000 employees based in Paris. It's faster to get from Paris to Tehran and Baghdad than from Paris to Mora. That travel time is one hour shorter. You sit in a group management office in Paris and a pen line can close factories, workplaces and hundreds of jobs, so it has major consequences. A job in Mora is about 50 jobs in Greater Stockholm. It thus has such an impact. If the airline disappears, the open airport could become a closed airport. Then you cannot land with the 200 important ambulance flights a year landing at the airport in order to support patients at Mora lasarett. It is not only a matter for Mora Municipality, a small municipality in northern Dalarna, but the support is monumental throughout Dalarna to maintain the route. Region Dalarna, County Council of Dalarna, County Governor of Dalarna, LO district of Dalarna, business in northern Västerdalarna, culture and sport are all behind the need for this route. The Finnish Transport Agency washes its hands and then you turn the matter over to the government. It's urgent. You can't wait too long.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-203	Mr President, I would like to This is an important issue for northern Dalarna. It is important that there is an air service from Mora to Stockholm. Rikard Larsson, I understand that if you come from your landscape you don't have that long distance. But if you are going to get from the northern part of our elongated county, it will take three hours from Grövelsjön to Mora airport. Already there is a long distance. It is serious that there is no route between Mora and Stockholm. The industry, which is important for living throughout the country, is located in the northern part of the county. We have heard in the past about heavy industrial companies that have their headquarters elsewhere in the world, but they choose to locate their production in Mora. We want to keep that industry. We need these jobs for the whole country to live. That is what the Minister for Infrastructure is saying, that we want to look at the whole country. Yes, but then show this by getting good communications and by keeping the route between Mora and Stockholm. As a former county council politician, I know how important the airport is for medical transportation and, above all, for organ and blood transportation to and from the hospital in Mora. This hospital is also needed for the northern part of the county. It is thought that Dalarna with its population did not have to have this airport, but as the county looks as it does, both the airport and the hospital in Mora are needed. It's a very important part. Because the government and the Minister for Infrastructure have done this before: Make sure we get a public service obligation between Mora and Arlanda! The Alliance government was able to fix a public service obligation between Arlanda and Torsby, Hagfors. Show also the ability to act by imposing a public service obligation between Arlanda and Mora!
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-208	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say to the Minister for Infrastructure that if you raise an air tax in Sweden and then invest crumbs in regional airports, it will not benefit the business community in these parts. Every entrepreneur, every workforce and every tourist travelling to and from their markets will have to pay more tax. To Rikard Larsson I can only say that it is clear that he who lives in Skåne now sees the opportunity to go over to Denmark and take the flight from there. It is 30% cheaper now that the tax is raised here in Sweden. He doesn't see any trouble with the airport in Mora disappearing. I think it is serious that we have not heard any will from the Minister at this stage. This is a serious situation. The Minister talks about the country's prosperity, but the Minister intends to put an end to that by closing down the route from Mora to Arlanda. This will probably not make it flourish more in Dalarna with a discontinued flight and in the worst case an abandoned airport. It is only to state what Marie Olsson also said, that it is about 16 mil to Sveg if you are going to Arlanda in the future. This is what the Minister is telling the business community: Expect that it will be more expensive, more difficult and it will be more difficult to both run and run companies in Dalarna because we have planned an investment in high-speed trains in southern Sweden that does not go together. We intend to allow the aircraft, cars and trucks to pay for this unfunded investment in southern Sweden. That is the fact. In his reply, the Minister says that he is constantly taking note of the information on the situation. That is not enough, Minister. The flight line is terminated and you continuously take note of information about the location. No, redo and do the right thing! We are waiting for a better answer on this.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-213	Mr President, I would like to Some contributions are sometimes hoped to avoid doing so. Sten Bergheden belongs to those who, as soon as these serious questions arise, try to play the cards away with something completely different. It is clear that the debate will then be very strange. In a serious debate about whether to have flights from Mora to Stockholm suddenly accuse me of wanting to close Mora airport because I would rather go from Copenhagen is completely absurd. It's thought lines that I don't even have any idea how to follow. Others may correct me, but I do not think that SEK 60 more in cost is the big problem for flights between Mora and Stockholm. The passengers who have flown between Mora and Sto ckholm could be able to cope with SEK 60 in air tax if they had been able to keep the route. That's not the problem with Mora. It is important that it is also accepted as a problem. I'll be honest with you about the minister's role. From my perspective, I think the Swedish Transport Administration has been a little blunt in this matter. I fully agree with what Peter Helander said about the public service obligations. There must be a public service obligation in order to be able to carry out a contract. What I said was that Europe does not require us to impose a public service obligation on anything. The EU says when it cannot give state aid, but the EU does not say anything about when we have to give state aid. I think the Swedish Transport Administration could have acted more flexibly. That is why I think it is good to start discussing the question of how to solve this with the conditions that are now in place.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-219	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that Rikard Larsson responded to some of what Sten Bergheden said, but again: Sten Bergheden believes that SEK 60 in air tax is what threatens the development of aviation. It's naive. On the contrary, we see that aviation is developing rather sharply, not least in the case of private aviation, where the number of leisure travellers is increasing significantly. This is one of the reasons why Swedavia has to develop rather comprehensive plans for a changed investment plan for Arlanda. This is also one of the reasons why the Government is now taking a holistic approach to aviation strategy, the Arlanda Council and an airport review. We need to see how to meet the changing structure of the aviation area. How to cope with the involvement of biofuels, ensure that aviation – like all other modes of transport – is able to meet its environmental and climate commitments. At the same time, we must ensure good relations throughout the country. If, on the other hand, you involve high-speed trains, it is worth a litany of your own. I think, however, that Sten Bergheden should first and foremost talk to his moderate colleagues in the rest of the country, who are lobbied hard against the government for high-speed trains to be built. They see it as an important element for us to be able to transport climate smartly and at the same time to relieve the current rail system in a way that makes freight more spaced there. But this is more a general debate. As far as the serious discussion of the conditions for Mora is concerned, I have every sympathy for this. I'm from Kosta myself. If I were to fly from Kosta, which is a small community with 800 inhabitants, I would have had to go either to Växjö, down to Ronneby or away to Kalmar. I know very well what it means for export companies and other industries to have good connections to the world's markets. I also know that we in Sweden have a tradition of the state taking on a great deal of responsibility. Therefore, through the Finnish Transport Administration, we are opening up the possibility of public service obligations, and therefore the state, regions and municipalities are also providing quite extensive subsidies to maintain this. The number that I have registered for myself – excuse me, Peter Helander – is 6,455 travellers, but it may be less important. For these, it is still a strong subsidy if you look at each ticket. We do this subsidy because we see that it may be necessary to maintain good business contacts. For Moras, 80 percent is about business travellers. We are also doing this because we see that there are other important reasons why we support traffic law. Similarly, we do so in the case of public transport or rail transport. This government is committed to improving relations in the country, but we are doing so in a situation where the former alliance government did not invest in, not least, the rail system but, of course, roads. We have 100 billion more to spend on infrastructure than the alliance government had. At the same time, we have an EU regulatory framework to deal with, as I know the interpellants also know. In this context, I would like to correct Peter Helander somewhat. The Finnish Transport Agency does not make its own voluntary interpretation of the regulations, but it is actually in this way. The EU examines and asks specific questions about Swedish application and state aid rules. The Falun District Court considered that with the legislation that we have decided on in the Swedish Parliament it was not right to give double compensation to Flexflight, i.e. from both Dalarna and the Swedish Transport Administration. If we are to maintain a structure like this, we must do the right thing, we must ensure that we comply with the laws and rules we have and we must ensure that we have a long-term commitment so that we do not end up in a twitch in planning. This would otherwise damage the long-term conditions for the business community in Dalarna. It has therefore been important for me to have a good dialogue with the County Administrative Board, regional representatives and municipal representatives. This dialogue continues. We need to look at different options but also, of course, put them in the context of the other investments that we will make in connection with the national plan. The government has just recently added 250 million to Sälen Airport. There is also an airport in Borlänge. There are great infrastructure needs in Dalarna. I intend to continue with such an important regional policy statement, because it is important that the whole of Sweden can live.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-230	Mr President, I would like to I know that you, Tomas, as Minister of State, are very well aware of the risks of air traffic now having a – as I see it – pause and of the importance of it getting back on track as soon as possible. I also know that it is not you who has decided to shut down air traffic, which it sounded like a while here from the speaker's seat. My hope is that the issue does not end in political bickering and polemics in order to win fast populist points. I would like it to end in a consensus on the importance of finding a solution together so that air traffic can continue between Mora and Arlanda. That was the idea of my interpellation.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-232	Mr President, I would like to The Finnish Transport Agency's interpretation of the public service obligations and who is allowed to award a contract now rests with the EU. To be honest, the EU is not showing much interest in this issue. They do not find it particularly interesting and may hardly understand why it has come at all. I think I choose to say that the Swedish Transport Administration has overinterpreted the regulations. The issue is urgent from several points of view. If we do not get a positive decision, staff will have to be dismissed in Dalaflygets organisation. You can't keep an airport running just because maybe something can happen in a year. Maybe nothing's happening at all. Air traffic stalling also impairs confidence in the mode of transport, and it takes a long time to rebuild it. There is an incredibly broad political commitment to this in Dalarna. When necessary, we join forces, regardless of party political colours, with the business community and trade unions to pursue such an important issue as having a public service obligation on flights between Mora and Arlanda. If the government wants there to be jobs and entrepreneurship in rural areas and the whole country to be able to live, there is nothing to prevent it from making a decision on Thursday. But perhaps it is a little short of time because this is not on the agenda. However, there is nothing that formally prevents the government from taking decisions on Thursday and by means of a regulatory letter imposeing public service obligations on flights between Mora and Arlanda. If so, the question would have been resolved. I hope that Tomas Eneroth and the government will continue to work on the issue so that there will soon be a solution for the problem that hangs like a car over northern Dalarna.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-237	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the interpellants for their wise contributions. I appreciate the commitment and would like to believe that there is a broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament for the whole country to live. We're a government for the whole country. Not least, this is evident from the offensive regional policy initiative that it entails when we move state operations from Stockholm to large parts of the country. We ensure that government operations are now carried out throughout the country through government service offices. We are making sure to have a completely different regional policy distribution in the future, whether we are talking about infrastructure funds or other measures – not to mention educational opportunities. This is important. Of course, it is also important to create long-term conditions for which transport solutions we think are most appropriate. This is one of the reasons why the government is working on a flight strategy, with an airport review and with the Arlanda Council. This is also one of the reasons why we are looking at how to deal with the EU regulatory framework that has been a threat to Swedish smaller airports for a very long time, because the EU has a narrow interpretation of what has been state aid rules. Now it looks like we have succeeded, which means that we can give freer opportunities to support local and regional airports. This meant that in the budget we could add SEK 85 million extra for such support. This is, of course, an important part of finding good transport solutions. This is important for us to be able to strengthen employment in Sweden in order for us to continue to have strong economic development. Despite what Sten Bergheden and many others have previously highlighted, I cannot help but say that we should remember that it is under this government that Sweden's development has turned around. This is where we have surpluses in state finances. This is where we have the highest employment in the European Union. It is now youth unemployment – the major issue in the 2014 elections – is the lowest in 14 years. We are able to take responsibility for the infrastructure as well as to provide more resources for investment and to take responsibility for the country's economy. We will continue to do so.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-243	Mr President, I would like to Jessica Rosencrantz has asked me a number of questions which all affect how I and the government sees that the Swedish Transport Administration estimates that with the current funding the Swedish road network will deteriorate, if I consider it acceptable and if I intend to take any action. There is a need to both develop and maintain the transport infrastructure. The need for maintenance measures on state roads and railways is great. The Government has therefore increased the appropriation for maintenance in the forthcoming national transport infrastructure plan for the period 2018-2029. Road maintenance increases by 7% and rail maintenance increases by 47% compared to the current plan. These increases are based on an analysis of the needs of road and rail systems. There are sharp increases in ambition in relation to the current national plan that Jessica Rosencrantz's own party was involved in developing. Although appropriations are now being increased substantially, the needs mentioned above are considerable. This means that priority needs to be given to the measures to be taken. The government's starting point is to maintain a high level of safety and accessibility throughout the state road network in the coming planning period. However, the need for priorities risks, overall, that measures cannot be optimised from a life-cycle perspective in parts of the low-traffic road network. This may lead to an increased need for corrective measures to ensure accessibility. In its proposal for a national plan, Trafikverket makes the assessment that the impact on the low-traffic roads will be small and will occur at the end of the planning period. However, the Government considers it worrying that the Swedish Transport Administration considers that the condition for parts of the low-traffic road network is at risk of deteriorating. The Government has therefore implemented an additional investment of SEK 300 million in road maintenance in rural areas in the 2018 budget proposal. I will carefully continue to follow this issue.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-247	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. It is good that the Government recognises that the government's policy leads to worse roads in some places. What's worse is you let it happen. The traffic chaos of the last week has paralysed Sweden. Snowstorms and slips have caused downhill, mass collisions and closed roads. The Finnish Transport Administration has advised the public not to go on the roads. Some extreme weather is hard to plan for. But in a country where the snow falls every year, we should be able to have better preparedness. The Finnish Transport Agency warns that government policy leads to poorer roads. The Moderates are concerned that the government is underinvesting in our road network. That's why we spend 6 billion more than the government on road maintenance and snow clearance. I note that I do not get any precise answers to which parts of the country will be hardest hit by the government's downward priorities. However, based on the distribution in the current national transport plan, the extra SEK 6 billion of Moderates would, according to a report from the Swedish Parliament's investigation service, give 1 billion more to Västra Götaland, 700 million more to Skåne, 200 million more to Dalarna, 150 million more to Västernorrland and so on. It is money that makes a difference, Mr President. The Government's down-prioritising of the road network takes place at the same time as the Finnish Transport Agency decides to reduce the speed of a large number of roads due to lack of maintenance and road safety. It is unreasonable that speeds should be lowered because the government does not want to invest in road maintenance. In addition, we see how the Government, through Trafikverket, renounces maintenance responsibility for road routes around the country for which the state has previously been responsible. The Finnish Transport Agency warns that the policy risks building up a maintenance debt in our road network in the same way as the policy has been on the railways for decades, which has been a big mistake. What is the Government's view of the risk of us building up a maintenance debt on the road side and deprioritising our road network in a way that jeopardises both road safety and accessibility in our country?
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-253	Mr President, I would like to I thank Jessica Rosencrantz for the interpellation. I can share the view that it is important that we maintain good quality on both roads and railways. That is one of the reasons why I am concerned about the frivolity of the Moderates while in government, when you did not invest in rail. One of the reasons why we now hear about signal errors and faults is that for a long time we had a Minister of Finance, Anders Borg, who thought it was unprofitable and unnecessary to invest in rail. You gave priority to investing in important parts of Swedish infrastructure. We're doing different now. We are adding 100 billion more to the national plan for infrastructure investment. It is a total of 700 billion that we will invest to strengthen Swedish infrastructure. We are making a 47% increase in railway maintenance to ensure that trains can arrive on time and to repair all the major deficiencies and maintenance needs that arose during the time when we had a government that thought that some hundred in tax reduction was more important than building Sweden strongly for the future. We are also increasing road maintenance, on the one hand by 7% in the national plan as proposed, and, on the other hand, by the fact that we already provided additional resources in the budget. I've been clear. The Finnish Transport Administration has presented its proposal – it is not the government. When they warn that this may mean that at the end of the planning period there may be deficiencies in the capillary road network, we must take that warning seriously. It's a signal to all politicians. But then you should be careful and not do what the Moderates do. You should not take money from the development grant and reduce new investments in either road or rail to spend the money on maintenance. It is easy in opposition to suddenly have 6 billion more, which is the latest amount we have been told. In government there were no such resources. On the contrary, you failed to invest both in railways and in roads. The government is taking a holistic approach to the investment in the maintenance of our roads and railways and, of course, new investments. That is one of the reasons why we have received strong support for many good input into the debate on the national plan, which the government will not present until April. We do this together with a good strategy where we clearly talk about how to strengthen the conditions for the goods' opportunity to arrive in Sweden. We are taking a holistic approach, unlike the alliance government, which for a long time chose to turn a blind eye to the challenges that existed on both roads and railways. When it comes to speed, I would like to take this opportunity to ask a question. I note that on various occasions the Moderates have said that we should be driving at 130 kilometres an hour on our roads and wondering if it is not better to have some speed increases. I think we should be careful not to reduce the speed of commuting distances. This is something I respect. I prefer to make road safety-enhancing efforts, which we also prioritise in the budget discussions that are taking place, because it is important that we have a high priority of safety in Swedish traffic. But opening for 130 kilometers an hour, I don't think that's gonna increase security. Speed kills. We broke a new record last year in how few people have been injured or killed in traffic. Sweden is the world leader in road safety. Do the Moderates now want to back away from this in a populist era and say that it is better to drive a little faster and a little more on the road? Do the Moderates want to do so instead of prioritising safety, accessibility, good road maintenance and new investment, which not least opens up for us to use the rail system better and which, of course, also means that we can have a better functioning road network?
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-259	Mr President, I would like to Initially, I almost thought the Government would turn this into a railway debate. I can understand that in itself; this government should not be so comfortable in discussing its road investments, because they are so modest. As far as rail is concerned, there is a considerably higher tone of voice, but without actually having any extra money for it either. I usually say to the Government – and his employees who say the same thing as him – that it does not matter how many times they say that the Alliance Government did not invest in railway maintenance, because everyone who can read different budget documents and national plans sees that the Alliance Government doubled the funding for railway maintenance. I realise that the Government will nevertheless say the opposite in the next debate, but let me say that. As far as the forthcoming national plan is concerned, the Moderates match every penny the government spends on rail investments and also have 6 billion more for road maintenance. So we are not talking about any investments, or what the Government indicated, but, on the contrary, are adding more as a whole to our framework for infrastructure. However, it is notable that the Government of the State Council is proposing 47 per cent for railway maintenance and 7 per cent for road maintenance. I respect the fact that there is much to be done in the railway sector. But I think we should be careful not to give priority to the road network. Not least in large parts of rural and rural areas, our roads are losing their standard. The Finnish Transport Agency warns that the result of government policy risks becoming worse roads in some places – not even maintained standards, but worse standards. This is a danger to road safety, for example, for which the Government speaks hotly. It is a danger to people's accessibility and accessibility, but also to road safety when the roads do not meet the standards. The Government suggests that it has already realised that the financial framework presented in Parliament just a few years ago is not enough. If so, it is a welcome message if it means that the government will return with additional money for road maintenance, because it is needed in our elongated country. We shall see and come back to that question. It is unfortunate if we are to see an ideological resistance from the government to invest in our ways. In our elongated country, we need both a reliable rail network and a road network. We are in danger of making the same mistakes on the road as we have on the railway side. We may not get much more answers today. But it would be interesting to hear whether the Government thinks it is a reasonable measure to reduce the speed of our roads. Then I am not talking about the maximum speed of our motorways, although I welcome the fact that you can drive faster where possible. It is a question of lowering speeds from today's standard because the Swedish Transport Administration says that road safety cannot be maintained. Is this a reasonable measure, or has politics failed? What does the Government say about the Trafikverket transfer responsibility for different parts of the road network to others in the framework of the so-called RÄV project because it itself does not have the power to maintain?
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-267	Mr President, I would like to I heard Jessica Rosencrantz here tell me about snowcaos and downhill on roads. I have to tell you that on 1 February, when it snowed half a meter in one day on the coast of Norrland, I went from Arlanda to Midlanda by car. There were four of us in the car. In that moment, I thought: Why are we not able to turn off roads when it snows so much? There were trucks everywhere that were stuck in the snow, and one could not see that far ahead of them. If it snows half a meter of snow, it is no wonder that there are problems in traffic. That's what I wanted to say. It is said that road maintenance is important. I visited Trafikverkets Region mine and asked about road maintenance. If you're a northerner, it's very important with road maintenance, speaking of what the Government mentioned about commuting and that part. It's very important that you have good road maintenance. In committee, the Moderates were raising awareness of 74 tonnes of lorries. That means basically driving them all over the country. This means, for example, in the region in the middle of Västernorrland, as Jessica Rosencrantz mentioned, that two bridges need to be reinforced. You have to spend a lot of money for road maintenance on these two bridges while in the hinterland we have a lot of roads that are in need of maintenance. The priority is to be able to drive 74 tonnes of trucks on the E4 instead of being able to commute from Junsele to Sollefteå or from Ånge to Sundsvall. This is because Jessica Rosencrantz and her friends thought you could drive 74 tons across the country. If you sit in Stockholm and have perspectives on the country, you should go out and see what it is like to live in the country. You can't have a perspective that narrow. We need roads and railways. As a northerner, I'm very interested in roads. But you have to adapt to the reality that exists. We need roads throughout the county and throughout Norrland and not just on a coastline or roads to Åre or some tourist resort. We need to be able to live throughout the country.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-274	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a very important interpellation! Speaking of living in real life, I live in Gävle and have a summer cottage in Hälsingland. I travel very often the E4 between Gävle and Hudiksvall and even between Gävle and Sundsvall. On 24 and 25 February there was traffic chaos through our county. The rescue service even went out and said: We warn motorists not to go after the roads. The rescue team goes out and says, "Don't go the E4. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has four seasons: winter, spring, summer and autumn. It is obvious that Swedish motorists should be able to count on them to drive such an important road as the E4 through Sweden. The rescue service also went out and talked about: The E4 next to Gävle is slippery than a skating track. As a result, I put a written question to the Minister for Infrastructure. I just got the written answer. That is why I came and signed up for the debate. The government claims that I would be surprised that roads in winter may be slippery. The Government writes that in its written answer to me. No, I'm surprised that the Minister for Infrastructure is taking the poor winter road maintenance so lightly. I am surprised that a minister in the Swedish government ignores the motorists who expect them to be able to drive safely and safely after the E4. It is the government's responsibility to ensure that our roads are navigable. It is no wonder that you have to fight slips in a winter country like Sweden. It is totally unsatisfactory that the Rescue Service goes out and says: The E4 is slipperyer than a skating track. It has nothing to do with snow. This has to do with inadequate anti-slip control. It is true that I and the Minister for Infrastructure had an interpellation debate on the poor winter road management. Sweden's Åkeri company has gone out and reviewed how winter road maintenance works. Then you could see that there was nothing wrong The Swedish Transport Administration's specifications to the contractors, but well the review of the outcome. Rules have been set up and procurements made, but this is inadequate. I am absolutely convinced that if the Government accepted the Swedish Transport Administration's rules on what can happen to such an important road as the E4 it would be clear in the procurement documentation that the E4 must never be more slippery than a skating track. The consequence was in any case that the E4 was more or less switched off for almost a full day. In addition, it is a complication that there are double files between Gävle and Uppsala, actually between Gävle and Helsingborg, but one plus one file north. That's where eight traffic accidents happened in about the same place within an hour. This meant that the E4 was suspended. Before the E4 was suspended, the Swedish Transport Administration went out and said: Dear motorists, don't take the E4 but take the smaller ones by. That was before the traffic accidents happened. It goes without saying that there will be a very high traffic load on the smaller roads in Hälsingland and Gästrikland when Trafikverket goes out and says: Don't go E4. Of course, money makes a difference. It is obvious, as Jessica explained here, that the Moderates have set aside more money for roads. Then, of course, we will have better accessibility.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-287	Madam President, I would like Let me first make it clear that this is not about money. The resources needed for winter maintenance are available. You have to take them. One should never refrain from removing snow barriers or other obstacles on the roads due to economic shortages, but this must be done. We have that order, and that order also has the municipalities I know of. It is important that we maintain a good standard. So this is not a lack of resources. The second is if entrepreneurs live up to their responsibilities. I have previously asked Lars Beckman, who thinks that the free market does not fulfil his mission, whether he thinks that the Swedish Transport Administration should conduct this itself in its own direction and that the state should thus take greater responsibility. I don't think that would be fortunate. I think it is a good thing that we have a third-party control of those who carry out the contracts. Of course, this will be an important part of the follow-up work of winter road maintenance during this year. Of course, it is absolutely crucial that we have a good chance of getting through. Not least, I have highlighted this in this speaker's chair a couple of times when it comes to the risk that certain individual roads in this country might not be able to operate as winter roads. There everyone has a responsibility for the home service coming up and for the ambulance to arrive. However, unlike Lars Beckman, I am pleased that Trafikverket and other actors, such as the rescue service, warn if it is slippery road law. We could see just now how E4 was completely blocked by heavy-duty vehicles and trucks that prevented the accessibility of both snow clearance and other road users because they did not have winter tyres. In this government we go forward with demands for winter tires on all wheels and on the trailer. We think it is reasonable to make such demands. I don't know how the Moderates stand about it, because I haven't got answers from either Jessica Rosencrantz or Lars Beckman. But I think it is reasonable that heavy-duty vehicles that are at risk of blocking the roads, and which have now done so, should have the same obligations as we private motorists have to have winter tyres on all tyres so that they do not block the road or, for that matter, cause serious accidents. Then it will always be that we end up in situations where we get heavy snowfalls. I believe that in the future we will end up in such situations more often because of climate change. This means that we all responsible politicians need to think carefully about whether the overall dimensioning is right. It costs us to maintain a higher level of preparedness for large snowfalls if we are to have this quality throughout the country, and then we must also be prepared to allocate funds to it in the future. I think that we need to ask ourselves this question regardless of the government we have, because that is a question for which all parties must take responsibility. If you look at the appropriations and the costs of winter road maintenance, you will notice that there have been no reductions. We note that the necessary resources have been available. Road safety must always come first; there should be no doubt about that. I laughed good when I heard Jessica Rosencrantz earlier because she asked if there was an ideological resistance to investing in roads. I laughed well because I myself have a background in the automotive industry, is reasonably car nerdy and loves to drive. I come from a county where the roads are crucial for us to have good accessibility. That is also why I myself have chosen to highlight what the Swedish Transport Administration says in its document: There is a risk that at the end of the planning period, the standard of the capillary road network cannot be maintained. That is why the government already added 300 million extra in the budget bill to ensure that we maintain road standards in rural areas. It is an issue that is important to this government. Unlike the alliance government, we are investing in infrastructure and roads throughout the country. We ensure that resources, state and others, exist throughout the country, and not only in the metropolitan regions. I'm very proud of that.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-296	Madam President, I would like This is not just about what Sweden should be able to handle in extreme weather. I think we should be well prepared for that too, but it is first and foremost a question of the Swedish Transport Administration warning us that we will have worse roads as a result of the government's funding. That is the main issue for this debate. It is a little strange that the government somehow realizes before its own plan has entered into force that it probably invested too little money. I say this in view of the fact that at the beginning of the process we were able to see the Swedish Transport Administration in various newspapers reporting that the money would not be enough and that we were in danger of getting worse roads. It's great if the Government has woken up and that it has now realised that more money is needed for the road network. I think it is important for the policy to be able to secure efficient rail transport – where we are in complete agreement and match every penny. But I also realize that people and businesses need our roads. It is interesting to hear the reasoning about what the heavier trucks would bring. As I understand it, we agree that heavier trucks are needed for Swedish industry, and not least for the forestry industry. I think it is important that we can secure the roads for them too. But basically it all goes back to the Moderates spending 6 billion more than the government and that this is the money needed for people to get to work and for companies to be able to deliver their goods. We may not be coming any further here today. But I'm looking forward to April, if I understood it correctly, when the government presents its national plan. Hopefully, then, there is more to say about how we can ensure that we get better roads and not worse, as is the case at the moment with the government's funding.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-301	Madam President, I would like Right, Jessica Rosencrantz, it is important that we have heavier trucks, and they are very important for the forest industry. However, the forestry industry is not primarily dependent on lorries driving on European roads, to which the money will now go. It is about strengthening bridges and so on these roads. The forest is not only around the E4, but the forest is inside the country. That's where you're supposed to drive, and it's these roads we need to rearrange. That is not the case, because you have taken a decision on an announcement that will enable major European roads to be upgraded in the first place. The Swedish Transport Administration itself also says so if you ask. Lars Beckman complains about entrepreneurs. You can do that. But I don't know if a nationalization would be an option for you, Lars Beckman. Is this what you're asking for? I think, as I said, that in extreme situations, with which we started the debate, when it comes to downhill and so on, and when there is half a metre of snow in 24 hours, one may have to stay off the roads. You don't have to do what I and three others did when we went along the coast of Norrland and it was hard to see where Söderhamn was because it snowed so much. You didn't see much at all. In such situations, you can stop some heavy traffic instead of saying that the Swedish Transport Administration is doing nothing. In extreme situations with half a meter of snow, one cannot expect to be able to drive at 80 or 90 kilometers per hour with a heavy truck. It's not realistic.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-304	Madam President, I would like No, I don't think we should be nationalizing road maintenance. But I think that we should have very careful checks on the procurements that are being made, and these checks should of course be carried out by the Finnish Transport Administration. I've seen this idea of staying home when it snows. I noticed that a leading Social Democrat in Sundsvall went out and said: When it snows you should not go to work, but you can work at home. What I'm thinking is, what do the children who should be at preschool think about that claim? What do the patients think should see the doctor if the doctor is at home? It is obvious that in a winter country such as Sweden, anti-slip and winter road maintenance will work satisfactorily. It is nothing new that it is winter in Sweden. The new is perhaps what was suggested here from the speaker's seat, and I would like to put it bluntly: if you let a hostile party sit in a Swedish government, it will have consequences for the motorists who had to spend more or less a day in prison on the E4. If it wasn't 24 hours, it was at least a few hours. It goes without saying that the government has not prioritised the road network. This is exactly what the interpellation is about. Trafikverket says that they will have to convert asphalt roads in Hälsingland to gravel roads because the money is not enough. It is one thing to stand here in a warm, comfortable and secure chamber and have views that everything works. But if the Government had sat with the family of children trapped on the E4 past Hudiksvall, the view would surely have been different. I know P4 Gävleborg called and applied for the Government, but he was unable to attend. If the Government had listened then he would have heard all these upset voices that came out on the phone and had to tell about the consequences of the poor winter road maintenance. Madam President, I would like I would like to see a somewhat more humble attitude from a minister and a government that are responsible for the current situation.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-310	Madam President, I would like I always think I have a humble attitude to the challenges we face, but I am a little less humble to the demagogy and populism Lars Beckman indulges in. It was not that long ago that Beckman made fun of a traffic situation in Stockholm via social media. He said about it: I notice that it snows a little bit in the big city. We in Gävle are a little more used to that. One should be careful with such statements. It was obviously the case that snow in Gävle also created traffic problems. Therefore, it is urgent that we do not have savings on what is winter road maintenance, and we do not – quite the contrary. The resources available should be used. It must never be the case that a sudden snowstorm or increased snow volume any winter limit winter road maintenance due to a lack of resources. That's what we said. It is clear that the resources should be there to make it a good standard on our roads. You're supposed to be able to get there. That is also why this government is putting forward a proposal on winter tyres for heavy goods vehicles, which is otherwise blocking. I am thinking not least of Beckman's area and not least of the last major traffic chaos at my home in Småland. I note that neither Jessica Rosencrantz nor Lars Beckman answer the question about winter tires. Are you prepared to support the proposal that there should be winter tyres on heavy vehicles and on buses, or do you still think that we should be able to drive with inadequate or substandard tyres on our roads? I think it is serious because it risks creating traffic chaos and major problems on our roads. Then there will be a tough balance, of course, with BK4 and reinforcements of the road network, as Mr Jasenko so well reported. But of course it is important that we can open up 74 tonnes of trucks, not least for the forestry industry. This means that we must be able to take responsibility for strengthening road maintenance. It's not surprising, Jessica Rosencrantz, that the government does. After Trafikverket presented its plan, we added an extra 300 million to the budget bill. That's how budget work works.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-314	Madam President, I would like Staffan Danielsson has asked me if I am prepared to highlight the issue of Sweden's driving licence rules for those with a certain lack of vision in comparison with those in Norway and in other Nordic and EU countries. I understand very well that the person who has his driving licence withdrawn can feel frustrated, especially when it affects one's professional life. Furthermore, if it is felt that the requirements are unfair compared to other countries, or even unreasonable in relation to what they should measure, frustration is of course even greater. However, we must remember that the individual citizen's need for accessibility and mobility must be balanced against the road safety of the driver, passengers and fellow road users. It is on the basis of this balance that the requirements of road medicine are designed. Anyone who has a driving licence issued in the EU must comply with the minimum medical requirements resulting from the EU driving licence directive. Member States are required to implement the requirements of national legislation and – as Staffan Danielsson also points out – implementation may vary between Member States. In Sweden, the Swedish Transport Agency is the authority that lays down in detail the requirements for traffic medicine. Staffan Danielsson questions the reasonableness of these and asks for an independent analysis. Danielsson also claims that the Swedish Transport Agency acts on the basis of prestige. Here, however, I would like to stress that the regulations on field of vision requirements have been developed in consultation with the medical expertise in eye diseases. In 2018, the Swedish Transport Agency will review the chapter of the traffic medicine regulations on vision requirements for driving licences. The review will include international comparisons of field of vision requirements. The EU rules developed on the basis of the work of the European Medical Expert Group in 2005 were based on the then best available science. New research and research methods to evaluate visual field defects have since arrived and may possibly lead to new conclusions. We in Sweden have a strong and proud tradition of high road safety. With the relaunch of the zero vision, our high ambitions in this area continue. It would be unfortunate if we were to end up in a discussion where the lowest requirements for road medicine are seen as the most desirable, but the requirements should not, of course, be more stringent than can be justified objectively. I cannot precede the outcome of the Swedish Transport Agency's review, but I assume that the Authority will review the requirements both from a scientific perspective and from an international perspective.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-321	Madam President, I would like Mr. Minister! Thank you for the answer to my interpellation! Interpellation gives my whole world view. In Östergötland we say this when we give some praise: It could have been worse, or it could have been much worse. The government gives interesting information. I take it positively. It is very good that, after 13 years of rigid and strict rules, there is now finally a review. And if the government has meant anything to do with it, I commend it. I have been exercising and interpelling for many years that the Swedish Transport Agency has rigid and strict rules regarding the requirements for keeping or taking a driving licence if you have any flaws in your field of view. The rules are by far the most stringent in the world. It's the most square. I have demanded that some independent force analyse this, because I have seen it as the Swedish Transport Agency is stuck in its strictness. The aim is for Sweden, like other countries in the EU and the world, to accept that practical driving tests can be carried out by those concerned in order for them to prove their driving ability. It is only in Sweden that this is not allowed. Instead, these people are referred to a very square synthesized machine. The answer from the Chief Medical Officer of the Swedish Transport Agency, based on management, has always been the same. Sweden applies the EU acquis. We do not stand out compared to other countries. That has been said with great patos, and of course the government and parliament have believed in it. Unfortunately, you've gone untruthful. Only in recent years has reality come to light, thanks to good digging work by individuals. Sweden has uniquely strict and square rules. Researchers and traffic experts in other countries marvel. We demand the use of a synthesized machine. We refuse to allow the people concerned to take practical driving tests. This is extremely remarkable. Many thousands of people in Sweden with some minor deficiency in their field of vision, often linked to the diseases of diabetes or glaucoma, have been deprived of their driving licences or not been allowed to take their driving licences and are therefore forced to very large restrictions on their freedom because they cannot drive. If they had lived in Norway or in any EU country, the vast majority of them would have been allowed to keep their driving licence. This is actually proven now by the fact that most people make it through the new driving simulator that has come into being. What Sweden has done is to allow a synthesized machine, Humphrey, to become a sovereign judge as to whether the deficiency in the field of vision is too great. Humphrey is not developed for this but to measure the progression of eye diseases such as glaucoma and diabetes. Unfortunately, Sweden has for many years, as the only country in the world, demanded approved tests in synthesizers – for reasons of fairness and for reasons of equal treatment. Eye doctors and examiners should, as well as not be faced with difficult choices. That has been the argument. You're in the machine with your head tied up. Eyes must be directed just ahead. You're supposed to handle all the little dots that come up in the field of vision. It's a tremendous amount of stress. The eye must not move freely. In all other countries of the world, people with some flaw in the field of vision can demonstrate their driving ability through practical driving tests. This almost human right has been denied by Sweden to these people for decades. It should run counter to the EU's principle of proportionality. Now the Government says, which is very positive: In 2018, the Swedish Transport Agency will review these regulations. The review will include international comparisons. The 2005 rules were based on science then. New research has come and may lead to new conclusions. I thank you for that message.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-332	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Staffan Danielsson, for both the interpellation and the commitment! I really appreciate this. It has given me an opportunity to go deeper on this issue, not just on the basis of the previous discussion, which is perhaps best known to the public and which deals with people with diabetes who may find it difficult to keep their driving licence. It is also about others who suffer from visual field limitations. That is why it is important, as I pointed out in my reply, to review this chapter of the traffic medicine regulations that the Swedish Transport Agency is now reviewing. I assume, and I take it for granted, that what is now up-to-date research and new research methods will also be taken into account. It should be noted that there is currently the possibility of granting certain exemptions. I know that Sweden, unlike other EU countries, has been more clearly committed to granting exemptions for authorised driving in simulators. This can, of course, be an important indicator. But the most crucial thing is to await the Transport Agency's review. I intend to follow it closely, and I am sure that Staffan Danielsson will do the same. We will ensure that new research and research methods guide the investigation that is taking place. It must be legally secure, safe and, on the part of the individual, perceived as a reasonable and legally sound assessment of the maintenance of driving ability.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-336	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Infrastructure for his reply, which I can agree with straight away. It's a lot of fun that we're in agreement. We're not going to look back too much in the future, are we? It has been 13 years with great rigour and squareness without improving road safety, and now there is finally a review. Those who have been deprived of their driving licences can queue to a place in a driving simulator. That's good. 67 per cent pass the test in the simulator, which shows how many have been unjustly denied practical driving tests. It's expensive to do the test, you get sick and you only have to do one try. The driving simulator is good, but it should be opened to practical driving tests with experienced trainers. I hope that the review will lead to this. It is incomprehensible that this possibility has not existed in Sweden. Now comes a new generation of officials at the Swedish Transport Agency, who will hopefully be able to work without the locks that have been around for a long time. When I leave Parliament, I hope that new Staffan Danielsson will enter the Riksdag and monitor the matter. As experts and ministers are renewed, there will also be new forces. I see Tomas Eneroth as a promising new force, and I am happy about that. The EU has rules on proportionality, a practice, on how far a country can go in stricter regulations for citizens than the EU acquis allows. My view is that Sweden has gone far too far in its strictness so that Sweden is thus in breach of the EU's principle of proportionality. The benefit of the collective is less than the tremendous limitation of some persons. It would have been better to have someone other than the Swedish Transport Agency investigate the issue; I understand that the Swedish Transport Agency has been stuck in prestige and self-sufficiency. It was a new message for me that the Swedish Transport Agency is working on the issue. I am in favour of a review. The Government says that it can lead to new opportunities, and I sincerely hope so. I accept that the Swedish Transport Agency is given the chance, and it will be very interesting to see what you come up with. The Swedish Transport Agency knows that we critics will read the report and the international comparisons and have views if the comparisons were not accurate. I hope that the figures are precise, and I think they will show that Sweden has, in the best interest, set itself strict rules and that they can be designed in a more reasonable way. The driving simulator is good, and we need to open up for a practical run-up. Norway, which has lower traffic mortality than Sweden, has no driving simulator but only practical driving tests all over the country. So it is possible to combine. I can flag because, in my next speech in connection with my final words, I will submit a small letter to the Government from the former school manager in Östergötland County Council tekn.mag. Roland Nilsson. He is to some extent affected by this problem and has been involved in the matter, and he has highlighted reality much better than I am.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-344	Madam President, I would like I note that both Staffan Danielsson and I will look forward to the Transport Agency's review of the chapter of traffic medicine regulations dealing with precisely the vision requirements. This will include international comparisons, which I believe both Staffan Danielsson and I are calling for and looking forward to reading, new research and new research methods. Although Staffan Danielsson leaves the Swedish Parliament, I am convinced that he will fully monitor this issue after the elections this autumn. This means that there are several of us who will follow the issue. Let me be clear once again: the starting point is, of course, that we must ensure that we maintain a high level of road safety for fellow road users and for those travelling in the vehicle. We must ensure that there is a legal test, and all available knowledge and technology must be used to ensure good quality for those conducting field of vision tests. You need to know that you have the right ability to transport a vehicle. We are now waiting for the Transpor Board's review, and then we will see if there are any conditions for further action.
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-348	Madam President, I would like Of course, we agree on the requirements for good road safety – to reduce traffic mortality – and that there will be conditions in Sweden for this. Here it often breaks. Many people who drive a car in Sweden have taken a driving licence in Europe or the rest of the world without any requirement for visual tests. They'll have to drive for a very long time. Norwegians and others without these strict requirements are constantly driving in Sweden. We still have to take on board and adapt a little where Sweden has been too strict. That is what I hope from the review. Accepting only tests in a synthesis machine that is not developed for driving licences tests has led to errors. It's going to be a tremendous amount of stress, and the only judge is the machine. The requirements imposed by the Swedish Transport Agency in their wisdom have allowed 67 percent of those who now finally get a second chance in driving simulator to survive. Many have suffered the wrongful withdrawal of their driving licence. I hope that after the Transport Agency's review we will have reasonable rules and practical driving tests. The visual test machine Humphrey can be an aid, but not the sovereign judge. Some affected persons have been involved in the matter. They are desperate and researching the issue, and many of them are very competent. Roland Nilsson I know as an honorary man, school manager and very respected. I hope that some evening or at work the Minister will read through his writing in peace and quiet. I've underlined what's particularly important. If the Government were to doubt my own opinion, he could trust Roland Nilsson!
i-0a5abea7260fccbb-352	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Staffan. I promise to read Roland Nilsson's letter, and for safety's sake I will also ensure that it is registered and received public document to the Government Office. I assume, of course, that there are several of us who will follow the Transport Agency's review with great interest. Then, based on the assessment made by the Swedish Transport Agency, we will see how we proceed. Thank you for the interpellation debate!
