i-36327aafa23e5b9e-3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Pethrus has asked me what Sweden intends to do to support, in particular, journalists, trade unionists, LGBTQ people, academics and human rights civil society organisations in Turkey. The interpellant has also asked me how Sweden intends to work to ensure that international terrorist legislation is not used by regimes in order to oppress its own population. Finally, the interpellier asks me how Sweden intends to work to support Turkey's legal processes so that they can be harmonised with international conventions. I share Mrs Pethrus' great concern about developments in Turkey, not least with regard to arrests and mass redundancies and violations of human rights such as restrictions on freedom of expression. This is clear from the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' report on human rights published last year. Free media, freedom of expression, political opposition and a well-functioning rule of law are prerequisites for a democratic society. We regularly convey this to Turkish representatives in Stockholm, Ankara and elsewhere where meetings take place. Sweden continues to consistently pay attention to the situation of opposition politicians, journalists, academics and civil society actors and pushes EU Member States to act together to improve respect for human rights and the rule of law in Turkey. Sweden also acts locally in Turkey, for example by our foreign authorities monitoring trials as part of the diplomatic mission. Within the framework of Sweden's bilateral reform support, we support efforts to increase the capacity of civil society, the media and other change actors. This support comprises approximately SEK 70 million per year via Sida and about 7 million via the Consulate General in Istanbul. Among other things, we provide support to organisations that train and support journalists, to human rights organisations, including those that specifically work with the promotion of LGBT ‐ people's rights, and to organisations that work with trade union rights in the workplace. There is today a real threat from terrorists who want to influence and overthrow our societies by force. We see almost daily examples of terrible deeds around the world that cost people's lives and cause great destruction and fear. It is absolutely essential that governments deal with these threats. At the same time, this must be done with full respect for human rights. Anti-terrorism legislation must never be used as a means to access political opponents, human rights defenders or to restrict freedom of expression or association. This is a matter of course for Sweden and one that we consistently pursue in negotiations on anti-terrorism resolutions in, for example, the UN Security Council and the General Assembly. It is also something that is addressed bilaterally in political contacts with countries, as well as by the EU in anti-terrorist dialogues with third countries, including Turkey. As regards the question of how Sweden intends to support Turkey's legal processes so as to harmonise with international conventions, I share Mrs Pethrus' concern about the negative developments in the maintenance of the rule of law in that country. Organisations such as the Council of Europe and the OSSE, to which Turkey is a member, are here important platforms for discussions that can affect Turkey. The EU Heads of State or Government have recommended that the European Commission redirect its support to Turkey so that a greater share goes to strengthening the rule of law and respect for human rights. Sweden continues to closely monitor developments in Turkey. We take every opportunity to inculcate our messages to Turkish authorities, both on our own and in cooperation with other EU countries, in bilateral contacts and in multilateral contexts.
i-36327aafa23e5b9e-12	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for answering my question about what Sweden can do more to support civil society in Turkey. The Minister also thinks that the attacks on civil society, which I raise in my interpellation, are an important issue, which is a good thing. In the answer, the Minister for Foreign Affairs says that Sweden is consistently working to pay attention to the situation of opposition politicians, journalists and so on. Perhaps I would have liked a more concrete answer to what is being done and what is being done with aid. There is talk of the need for more dialogue with Turkey and of 70 million in aid to various civil society organisations. Does the Secretary of State think that's enough? And what kind of strategy could the EU have together to bring about change precisely for civil society? Can Sweden not do more than this? It feels a little thin. Another question that I mention in my interpellation, but which I did not receive an answer to is whether the Minister could not have been more vocal and said something about the arrest of the Swedish citizen Ali Gharavi who worked in Turkey on a civil society mission for Amnesty? German Chancellor Angela Merkel then said that these arrests – because they included also a German citizen – were completely unjust. Gharavi was released after three months, but of course he took it hard, I think everyone understands that. Being in prison and not knowing how to end it is always a terribly difficult situation. And he's just one of many people in civil society who's been hit. He hopefully received some kind of support from the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and has now been released. But do we not need to be even more clear with Turkey when these things happen? It is good that the Swedish Government claims to protect human rights and democracy in its foreign policy. I believe that many people expect the Swedish Government to be more vocal and have a high tailings when it comes to speaking out against the abuses that are going on in Turkey. It is a tense situation with regard to freedom of expression, press and organisation. We know that the Committee to Protect Journalists, CPJ, says on its website that since 1992 – it's a fairly long period, but still not so long – 1 271 journalists have been murdered in Turkey. It's terrible. I cannot quite tell from the answer what Sweden and the EU can do to put a stop to the imprisonment of journalists. After all, Turkey is almost at the bottom of the freedom of the press index. I think that Sweden can do more. We have been in contact with the trade unions in Turkey through SSKT, the Swedish Human Rights Support Committee in Turkey. They can no longer act freely. What are Sweden and the EU doing for all those who are active in trade unions today? Not to mention LGBT people who can't organize. I am not entirely satisfied with the Minister's response to the 70 aid million and dialogue with Turkey, because there is also a need for leaders to raise their voices. Sweden needs to raise its voice against Turkey. Sweden also needs to influence the EU to have an even tougher attitude towards Turkey. I would like to see a further deepening of the response I have received from the Minister in the past.
i-36327aafa23e5b9e-21	I would like to thank Mrs Désirée, who has tabled the interpellation. I would also like to thank Mrs Wallström, who is here today to respond to the very important interpellation in which all of us representatives of the Swedish Human Rights Support Committee in Turkey have been involved in various ways. What Mrs Désirée highlights in relation to journalists and human rights activists is an important issue. Personally, I have had the greatest contact with trade unionists. I was there not long ago and met representatives from the teachers' unions, among other things. They also bear witness to the situation mentioned by Mrs Désirée about an unsustainable situation in which, regardless of what you do, you are accused of terrorism and of spreading terror propaganda. You lose your job if you criticise the violations of human rights in Turkey in any way. They simply testify to a situation that they feel the outside world is not acting against. The world is quiet and standing and watching. Sweden may be a small country, but, as Mrs Pethrus mentioned, we have generally played a very important role in foreign policy through this story. We have also been able to influence the foreign policy of other countries. For many years we have had an independent voice in foreign policy. In this case, if you talk to human rights activists in Turkey and union leaders, they say that the West has chosen to pay Turkey to stop refugees. Nor does it want to criticise Turkey in terms of human rights. And it is not just that we do not want to criticise in words, but we do not make demands in trade agreements and other things where we can influence. They have this feeling. In addition to this, we also see another situation that has arisen in recent days. It is a question of Turkey not only violating human rights in Turkey, but also officially entering Syria. Now we are not only saying that we are fighting terrorism in some way in the past, but now we are resorting to completely peaceful forces, killing civilians and also cooperating with various groups that could at best be called fundamentalist. I also wonder on this point what the government and Mrs Wallström are doing. It is about Afrin and the hundreds who have actually been killed there since Turkey launched this offensive. The last thing I heard Mrs Wallström say was that Turkey has, of course, the right to refer to the fight against terrorism. That's what the Secretary of State told Expressen. I wonder if she then means that the people's defence forces YPG and YPJ are terrorists, because they are the ones who are under attack today. It is the Kurdish population and the peaceful forces in northern Syria and western Kurdistan that are being attacked.
i-36327aafa23e5b9e-27	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank both the interpeller and Daniel Riazat for their questions and comments. I would like to start by giving ten examples of what the government and Sweden are doing. Often, of course, speaking begins. These are critical statements from governments. Such things, too, are part of our important mission. We have, of course, done so, for example when human rights representatives and opposition leaders have been detained. We have been active in the Joint EU Statements Council of EU Foreign Ministers. We have worked to raise human rights and the rule of law issues on the agenda of the EU and its Member States. In the OSSE, the Council of Europe and the UN, for example, we have highlighted the situation of civil society. We have produced an MR report – as you know, Sweden is unique in the world with this – which analyses the situation in Turkey. In talks with Turkish representatives, such as myself with my colleague, Ankara and in various places in Turkey, we have clarified Swedish views on developments with a state of emergency, detention and the situation of the opposition. Through the Swedish reform support, we are working to strengthen civil society and freedom of expression. It goes to organisations that work with this very thing. We have contributed with election observers during the referendum on constitutional changes. We have called Turkey's ambassador to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs on several occasions to give Sweden's views on developments. We have been watching trials against politicians and journalists, among others, and of course we continue to do so at all times. We all agree here that developments in today's Turkey are deeply worrying. This is also regularly discussed when EU foreign ministers meet. There is broad agreement on all this in the Swedish Parliament and within the EU. If we are to promote change in the country, we need to use all political and diplomatic tools. It is interesting that the only thing the opposition often has to come up with is that Sweden should be louder. But just being loud is not always the only thing that helps, and not even those who are active in the country. It may be even more difficult for them if we do not try to find a clear and straight tone and do so in a way that they can continue to receive our support and feel that we are helping them in the best way. It's not just the one who screams the loudest that gets the most effective. However, we must be clear and, preferably, common within the European Union. Because that's how we get more influence. We have stated on several occasions directly to Turkey that what is going on in that country will also have consequences for both our bilateral relationship and our relationship with the European Union. We have already seen such consistency with the Commission reviewing pre-accession aid to Turkey, which will strengthen the elements that will contribute to strengthening the rule of law and respect for human rights. Let me also say something about Ali Gharavi. As everyone knows, we looked very seriously at the arrest of him this summer. We have worked very actively on the matter. We gave him consular support in prison. We made many contacts, including at a high political level, and we made our views known to Turkish representatives. So it was gratifying when he was released from prison. I myself have met him personally to discuss how this has happened. Sometimes, then, it is not just a question of being loud, but of using all these methods.
i-36327aafa23e5b9e-45	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. I understand that it is of course always a balance between how much to press and how loud to be. But you can still note that Angela Merkel rots again. What it meant is difficult to say, but I still think it is important to be rather loud in such countries. I think it is good that the Minister says that it is good if we can work together in the European Union, because, of course, a strong voice in the European Union is extremely important to push. Whether Turkey now has ambitions to join the European Union or not, I believe that it is still dependent on economic cooperation with the European Union. There are several people who have been affected, and I tried to highlight many different groups in the interpellation. As the Minister is aware, a coup attempt took place in July 2016 when 265 people were killed and 1 400 injured. It was believed that people from the Gülen movement were behind the military coup. You can have many views on the Gülen movement, but at the same time it seems that the Turkish state is now beating a lot of people who may have only gone to a school that has had some connection to Gülen or they may have had a bank account in a bank linked to Gülen. People hardly know why they have been laid off or imprisoned. Today, Amnesty is talking about about about a hundred thousand civil servants – doctors, academics, teachers and police – who have been fired from their jobs. There is a great cleansing of people, and they are currently lacking livelihood. Have the EU and Sweden spoken clearly enough on these issues with regard to all the people who have now been left without livelihood? How does the Foreign Minister view future EU membership? Is it reasonable for the EU to cooperate with Turkey? The second issue in my interpellation concerned the issue of anti-terrorism legislation, which Turkey is using in time and out of time against all people to strangle information. In Turkey, anti-terrorism legislation is used to restrict access to the internet and social media such as Facebook, Twitter and Youtube. What concerns does the Minister see with this development, and what concretely has the Minister and Sweden proposed in the UN? In the interpellation response, the Minister says that the issue has been raised in the UN, but in what way? Yesterday, we had in the Swedish Human Rights Support Committee in Turkey, a network of seven rich social partners, raised the issue of the EU-Turkey agreement, the refugee situation and how refugees should be helped in Turkey. It pointed out that the EU now intends to provide renewed funding for this cooperation. Then one might ask: will there be any demands on the aid to be given to Turkey in the case of refugees? Perhaps it should also be a support to civil society organisations, such as Amnesty or others who work specifically to help refugees. We also have our own organisation linked to SSKT, namely HRFT, which works with tortured refugees. I think we need to give more support to such organisations too. It is my specific question about the negotiations now under way to renew this EU-Turkey agreement with regard to financial assistance.
i-36327aafa23e5b9e-54	I thank Mrs Wallström for the comments she made in her last speech. However, I lacked an answer on the quote from the Foreign Minister that I read out about the attacks on Afrin and the invasion, as one might say, has been launched by the Turkish State. The Foreign Minister has said: of course Turkey has the right to refer to the fight against terrorism. I wonder again: does the Foreign Minister mean that YPG and YPJ are terrorist organisations? It is very easy to answer yes or no to that question. In addition to what Mrs Désirée has highlighted, among other things, regarding our sister organisation and the thousands who are accused of being part of the Gülen movement – regardless of what you think of it – or of being terrorists in different ways, there is a group that has been exposed and is still exposed at a completely different level. It concerns all persons who are either Kurds or in any way support Kurdish organisations or other minority organisations, such as Armenians and Yazidians. It can be all kinds of organisations, including alawite organisations. Selahattin Demirtaş, Figen Yüksekda, and many other elected politicians are in prison today. In view of the fact that Turkey refers to the terror stamp of the largest Kurdish organisation in principle there, the PKK, I wonder whether the government has in any way reconsidered its refusal to support the terror stamp of such a large organisation. This terror stamp can be used by Turkey in time and without time to arrest people and put them in prison because they are fighting for democracy.
i-36327aafa23e5b9e-57	Mr President, I would like to There are risks in pulling a sentence out of a line of reasoning. The question is about something that is happening right now and is very serious. This is, of course, about Turkey's attack on Aphrin. What everyone points out is that this is the reason Turkey is using. Of course, they have the right to use such an argument, but it should be examined, and according to our experts in international law there is no basis for using that argument. In addition, this risks making the whole situation in Syria even more precarious. The whole peace process is at great risk. Moreover, there are obviously also military risks. Here there may be mistakes – American and Turkish forces could attack each other. Basically, it is about Turkey and the Kurds. With the large Kurdish population that we have in Sweden, we know what this means and how vulnerable the Kurds are. We believe that this must have a different political solution. It's the civilian population that gets the most hurt. It is also a terrible humanitarian situation. I would like to stress that it is a question of pulling a single sentence out of a line of reasoning that must be greater. This is very important. When this was discussed in the UN context, they looked at whether there was any basis for using such an argument at all. In any case, in the preliminary assessment that we are making, we believe that there is no international legal basis to argue that this is what we are doing. We believe that the Kurdish question must be resolved in the short and long term and with respect for the Kurds and their situation. First of all, I want that said. After all, we have reacted to the absurdity of the number of people who have now been arrested, detained or persecuted with reference to the attempted coup. This is clear even when the EU is discussing this issue and in our contacts with Turkey. There's a lot of people in custody waiting to find out what the charges are. In many cases it has proved completely unfounded. When it comes to our consular cases, we always do what is best for the person in question. We are doing everything we can to ensure, for example, that that person can get out of prison unharmed and that we can resolve the matter. That's what I want to say. Several international human rights experts have criticised Turkey's anti-terrorism legislation and its application. Last June, the UN Special Rapporteur on Freedom of View and Expression recommended Turkey to reform both the Criminal Code and anti-terrorism legislation in order to avoid their application in the way we have seen in Turkey. This is the most important point to make with them. As far as the Refugee Facility is concerned, this is intended for refugees in Turkey. This concerns access to education, health care and work. Then it also goes to purely humanitarian operations. But I think it's important that we always discuss whether we can do this even better and more accurate. We shall, of course, also ensure that at the same time we have a chance to express our views on how to apply respect for democracy, human rights and the rule of law in Turkey.
i-36327aafa23e5b9e-65	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I think it is important that we continue to keep this debate alive and show that we in the Swedish Parliament have a strong commitment to a better situation in Turkey than is the case today. Some are the EU – the Turkey agreement, where we will continue to have a dialogue. Although it is not an agreement that is about giving Turkey money – it is the refugees who will receive these funds – it is nevertheless an opportunity for dialogue. I would just like to hear if the Minister for Foreign Affairs can not say that she and Sweden will try to push that civil society organisations might be able to get some part of the funds. That was 30 billion before, and I don't know how many billions there will be in the next package. But perhaps something can go to civil society organisations through special support. Now there are many refugees. Yesterday we heard at a seminar here in Parliament that about 90 percent of Syrians want to stay in Turkey. That is why there is, of course, a need to provide them with support in Turkey. But another worrying factor we heard about is that Erdo中an now wants to give some selected people of these Syrians the opportunity to become citizens. There are 3.4 million Syrians in Turkey. Does he give a large proportion of them citizenship to support the AKP, which he is expected to receive, is this of course also a security policy issue – what will happen if his power is further strengthened in the future? Finally, I would like to hear something about support for civil society also in the refugee situation and the security policy issue: how will Sweden try to ensure that we have security and to show that Turkey is really important in our neighbourhood? If we do not have stability in Turkey, it affects the EU but also Sweden.
i-36327aafa23e5b9e-69	Mr President, I would like to I agree with Mrs Pethrus on this. This is an important discussion. Let us continue with it, and let us also talk about what the most effective measures are now to achieve both our criticism and our views and to direct our money where it is most needed. It is primarily through our bilateral reform support that it has been possible for us to contribute to a viable civil society in Turkey. Civil society organisations that receive Swedish aid – and this also applies to many other EU countries – are active in areas such as human rights. This applies not least to freedom of expression and the enjoyment of human rights by LGBT people, but also to the promotion of democracy and gender equality. It is this type of activities and organisations that we support. It is important that we continue to do this, and that is why it is also important to be heard. It is important that we make statements and show that we also care about those who are in opposition and who fight every day for human rights, for equality, for other issues and for democracy. I believe that we must continue to do this. This money is now actually going to direct humanitarian aid for the refugees who are in Turkey – and we should know that there are many, many of you than 2 million people. As for whether it is precisely this money that should be directed at civil society organisations, I am prepared to look at exactly what can be done to be even more effective in reaching out to them. I think I can say that. The discussion is taking place in the EU all the time. We say there that if we do not see that things are improving with regard to the principles of the rule of law, the MR and all those who are in custody without being prosecuted, it will reduce the possibility of eventually connecting Turkey to us, for example through a membership negotiation.
i-36327aafa23e5b9e-73	Mr President, I would like to Ali Esbati has asked me what initiatives I intend to take to strengthen the regulation of the hiring and hiring of workers in line with the proposals presented by the Social Democrats and LO for the 2014 elections. Temporary agencies play an important role in a flexible labour market as a complement to, for example, vacancies and job peaks. Even in transition and recruitment situations, they meet a need. The social partners have largely regulated issues relating to temporary agency work in different situations in their collective agreements. For example, provisions on collective bargaining have been introduced to strengthen preferential rights and to strengthen trade union rights with arbitration. The vast majority of employers in the manning industry are covered by collective agreements. As I understand it, the parties believe that these collective agreements work well in general. If employers still use temporary agencies to circumvent the preferential right to re-employment, it is a restriction on job security that I take very seriously. In connection with the work environment strategy, the Government issued a mandate for the Swedish Work Environment Agency to carry out information and supervision activities aimed at staff members, temporary agencies and temporary workers. The purpose and objective of the supervision is to prevent the injury of staff members at work. The aim of the information effort is for a higher proportion of the country's employees and employers in the staffing industry and their customer companies to be aware of their rights and obligations in terms of health and safety at work, in particular as regards the importance of risk assessments and the importance of a good introduction. The assignment will be reported in June 2018, and the government continues to follow developments
i-36327aafa23e5b9e-78	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for your reply, although unfortunately it did not affect much of what I mentioned in my interpellation. Ylva Johansson says that temporary work agencies play an important role in a flexible labour market. But the point here is that the flexibility that employers can make use of comes with a price tag. It is quite remarkable, in fact, that the Minister does not enter into this discussion. I would therefore like to mention four problematic aspects of the hiring out of workers rather than the establishment of an employment relationship between employers and employees. Firstly, it concerns the working environment. The Minister addresses an assignment that has been submitted to the Swedish Work Environment Authority regarding supervision and information. That's good. But what is not mentioned here are the results of the inspection effort that the Swedish Work Environment Authority reported last June. They found that there were major shortcomings in the working environment for staff members. Three out of four inspected establishments were required to remedy deficiencies. There were no risk assessment procedures and the procedures that existed did not work in practice. We know that the accident rate here is about twice as high as the average in all sectors. We in the Left Party have been pleased that, together with the Government, we have strengthened the resources for the Swedish Work Environment Agency and other advances in the area of work environment. But I find it strange that the government does not want to look into this area in particular from the point of view of health and safety at work. Secondly, it is about the influence and development opportunities of staff members. LO has shown in a report that about half of the staff members surveyed did not feel that they had the opportunity to exercise influence in accordance with the co-determination law. The same report pointed to a lack of access to skills development for staff members. These are not just words, but they mean that staff workers pay a price over time for being staffed. Thirdly, and now we get a little into system effects, it becomes more difficult to conduct good trade union activities. It is not possible to represent people who are not employed in a company with the same legal support. As a result, these people are in danger of not becoming part of the trade union community and of not being adequately protected. It is a problem for themselves, but it is also a problem for the cohesion and strength of trade union work, especially if there are frictions with the employer where they work. Unfortunately, it is also not surprising that there is a significantly lower degree of organisation among staff: about 25 per cent to compare with about 70 per cent in the Swedish labour market on average. There are also few elected representatives among them. This is something we should be concerned about a Social Democratic Minister for Labour, who wants to develop the Swedish model on a regular basis and not to dismantle it. However, I do not think that this concern is so evident in the response today. Fourthly, of course, permanent staff are also affected. About 1.6% of the workforce is employed by temporary workers. It is not that few people in itself, but that does not mean that it is these very people who are affected. Since a judgment in AD in 2003, it has been possible to circumvent LAS by dismissing staff due to lack of employment and then taking in hired staff. It is true, as the Minister says, that it has tried to deal with this in collective agreements. That is a good thing, but the question is why workers should have to sell other things in order to keep what is even the main course of the Labour Protection Act. In that case, it should be employers who make concessions in collective agreements in order to gain this flexibility. The question to Ylva Johansson and the government must be: Why is it not prepared to follow up on these concrete problems?
i-36327aafa23e5b9e-86	Mr President, I would like to It is important to keep several images in your head at the same time when it comes to the staffing industry, because several things are important. The staffing industry plays an important role when it is used precisely to fill up at work peaks and vacancies and even when the employer may feel an uncertainty in a recruitment situation. Temporary work agencies can provide the individual with a permanent job and an opportunity to avoid the uncertainty of being hired for a day or a few hours directly with the employer. In this respect, I believe that temporary work agencies actually contribute to a stronger situation for the employee. On the other hand, if temporary work agencies are used for sustainable labour needs, there is a risk that many of the problems raised by Ali Esbati will be met because the Swedish labour market model is rigged so that it is the employer at the workplace who has the main responsibility. We see several examples that when responsibilities are shared between the temporary agency and the user company there are problems or risks of problems in between. The working environment is such an issue that there is a shared responsibility for and risks not working fully. It is important to see that there are risks and problems but also the real benefits of temporary work agencies. After all, the labour market is a market, but it has taken a bit of time, one might think, before employers have started to dare hire people who they might not have dared to hire in the past. But now you need it, and we see that some people get jobs through temporary agencies. First you are hired, and when the customer company sees that it works well, it turns to a permanent job. I see this as an important way into the labour market where it can be a more secure situation for the individual than having a probationary position, for example. But there are also risks. We can take the question of whether we can go by again, and I take it very seriously, as I said in my reply. An investigation has looked at the issue of how common this is. That investigation shows that it is very rare. Should it turn out that this is a problem, I am absolutely prepared to legislate. However, it is a little doubtful whether you can manage to build a bill if you cannot show that you have a problem that actually needs to be solved. However, I take it seriously and do not exclude legislation in this regard. We also raise the question of whether temporary agency work can be regulated in situations where there is a long-term need for labour and not really the situation where temporary agency work is the best solution, in my opinion.
i-36327aafa23e5b9e-92	Mr President, I would like to The two problems that Ylva Johansson is now discussing happened to be proposals that were included in the election promises that were made by the Social Democrats together with LO before the last election. On the one hand, legislation would ensure that it would not be possible to hire and hire labour for permanent labour needs and, on the other hand, it would not be possible to override LAS by giving up staff and then hiring temporary workers for the same tasks. These were good demands, and we, the Left Party, have been exercising about them for a long time. It was gratifying that it was something that the Social Democrats said they should work with during this term of office. It is a little bit that unfortunately this has not happened, as I point out in the interpellation. I wondered why, and I do not think I got a very good answer to that. I'm not looking for any cheap points here, but there may be reasons why you can't fulfill an election promise – reality can change and a problem can change character. But that is hardly the case here, and I hope that I and the Minister agree that the problems encountered with the staffing industry have become less. I don't think there's much to suggest that. The Minister considers that some people entering the labour market through temporary agency work are in a better position than those who have the most precarious jobs that can also be found in the labour market. But it is a dangerous argument to use, I think, because you can always find situations that are worse, but that in itself is not a good argument for keeping something that creates systematic problems in the Swedish labour market. These were the four aspects I was dealing with. I'm not the only one who's discovered these problems. I draw attention to some of the state studies that have been carried out, and if you go to the trade union movement and perhaps a little further down the organisation, to the ombudsmen and safety representatives involved in this, the tone is quite different. Today's Work last year had a slightly larger survey of the staffing industry, and there you met people who didn't want to go out and talk openly about this. They wrote: He does not want to tell where he works and in which city he lives. The reason was that you have learned from colleagues that if you disagree, you must not come back to the same place or do not get assignments. One of Metall's main safety representatives says in the series: We see problems with staff members not wanting to say anything about ailments. This is something that is important to bear in mind and that also comes to light when it comes to some of the other types of insecure employment. People are said to pass through these stations, but there are many who work for long periods of temporary work. If you end up in situations where the work environment is poor and where risk assessments are not done sufficiently well, you will suffer recurring work problems and wear out. It is the price that is paid for what provides flexibility for companies. I find it strange that the government does not want to look more closely at this problem.
i-36327aafa23e5b9e-100	Mr President, I would like to I do not agree with the black-painting that I actually think Ali Esbati is doing here by the agencies. I believe that temporary work agencies play an important role in the Swedish labour market. I also think that the staffing industry works well with its own self-remediation, with its authorisation and with the fact that it has collective agreement coverage and requirements for obtaining authorisation from its own board. I think that temporary work agencies are needed and that they play an important role. I am not prepared to paint the whole industry as bad employers or anything else. I do not share that view. There may, of course, be poor employers, and there may be uncertain situations in both the staffing industry and other parts of the labour market – that is a problem in itself – but I do not mean that this is something that generally applies to the staffing industry. On the other hand, I would like to say that there is a problem, and that is that I do not think that temporary work agencies and temporary agency work should be used in the long term. That is my view and that of my party. The question is, how do you make sure you don't end up there? What has happened is that there is an EU directive, the staffing directive, in this area which is now in force and which is transposed into Swedish law. It has made it a little more difficult, may I say, and requires a lot of other legal balances if one were to go forward with a type of legislation in terms of limiting the possibility of renting out because the staffing directive is based on two legs. On the one hand, there are fairly strong rights for the hired or hired, that is to say, the employed, on the other hand, it is quite strong rights for the temporary agency as a phenomenon. As a result, it is not easy to see how such a regulation would come about, but it is not something that I exclude. It is also my view and that of the Party that temporary work agencies should not be used in the case of permanent labour needs. There are two different areas where we see temporary agency problems. One is if the employer wants to rent in for lasting needs to escape their employer's responsibility and people may feel that they are exploited. The second is that health care, for example, hires doctors for very expensive money instead of dealing with the working conditions and salaries of permanent employees in the organisation. In both these respects, which are completely different in nature, one can say that this can lead to problems in the ordinary business.
i-36327aafa23e5b9e-106	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, the fact that the European Union can make a mess of things is not news to me as a left-wing party. But it is still possible to do things in this area if you have the will and the drive. That is my opinion. Of course, I agree that not all employers in this business are bad or bad. They certainly are not. When you discuss these issues, you need to take a little height because there are many good employers. And there is active work, both from the employers' side and from the trade unions. They take a big responsibility and try to regulate this. However, this does not mean that the system problems that may arise can be ignored. That is also why I raised several aspects of this. It is not just me but many others who look at this industry and are close to it that can point to it. It is good that the Minister brings up the other end of the labour market, hire doctors and so on. I am also somewhat concerned that problems may arise even if the individual worker does not have bad conditions at all, but perhaps has a high salary in that situation. But it affects the way the labour market is organised. I hope that at least I and the Minister agree that employment relationships where you know who is an employer and who is an employee must be the main rule of the Swedish labour market. This also applies to the obligations and rights arising in that relationship. Otherwise, there are a lot of laws and regulations that fall between the chairs. I would like to remind you once again of the price. The LO report has a good headline on this – the social prize for the labour market. It is a price paid by many players. I hope the government continues to keep an eye on the issue.
i-36327aafa23e5b9e-114	Mr President, I would like to Let me conclude with three important positions for me and the government:
